16 Beazley Annual report 2014 Chairmans statement After another year of strong performance, the board is confident that Beazley possesses the skills and resources required to achieve its vision.
I am pleased to report that your company delivered another very strong performance in 2014, recording a return on average shareholders equity of 17% 2013: 21% against a continuing background of declining premium rates.
Beazleys combined ratio of 89% 2013: 84% was in line with the average achieved over the past five years, once again demonstrating the effectiveness of our well balanced portfolio in delivering consistent high quality underwriting returns.
Earnings per share were 43.1c and net tangible assets per share remained flat at 247.0c.
The board is pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 6.2p per ordinary share plus a special dividend of 11.8p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim dividend Dennis Holt of 3.1p this takes the total dividends declared in 2014 Chairman to 21.1p per ordinary share 2013: first interim dividend of 2.9p, second interim dividend of 5.9p plus a special dividend of 16.1p, totalling 24.9p.
As this once again demonstrates, Beazley is committed to capital management.
We continue to invest in profitable growth opportunities but when capital is not fully deployed, beyond a prudent buffer, we return funds to shareholders.
Employing this approach, we have maintained focus on our total shareholder return TSR which, on a cumulative basis, is in excess of 300% over the last five years.
Premiums underwritten by our US operation, which now constitutes a strong platform to complement our presence at Lloyds, have risen by 19% to $537.0m during the year.
We have signalled for some time now the intensifying headwinds affecting our short tail, catastrophe exposed business underwritten at Lloyds.
These have been given added impetus by the low level of catastrophe claims in 2014.
Nonetheless, our response to competitive pressures is never passive: we do not simply wait for the underwriting cycle to turn.
We seek to manage our portfolio dynamically, adjusting our exposures to individual lines of business, geographies and distribution channels to maximise risk-adjusted returns.
com 16 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 17 This may mean making challenging underwriting decisions that As these examples illustrate, innovation in our markets can not everyone is prepared to do.
In the past year there has been take varied forms.
If our innovations can make brokers lives more talk about how the reinsurance market has too much easier or help them to better look after their clients, they will capacity, rather than on the action needed to address the risks strengthen the relationships that have been critical to Beazleys that this presents.
Our reinsurance success since it was founded in 1986.
These are constants division underwrote 9% less in gross premium in 2014 than in the history of the company that transcend market cycles.
in 2013 and we will prune the book further in 2015.
Other catastrophe-exposed accounts, such as our large commercial Dividend policy and capital management property insurance book in London and our energy insurance The board strategy is to grow the dividend by between 5% and book, also shrank, by 12% and 18% respectively, last year.
10% per year and this has always been achieved.
In addition, our capital management strategy is to carry some surplus The business underwritten by our largest division, specialty capital to enable us to take advantage of growth opportunities lines, is in a different pricing phase, particularly with regard that may arise: this is further supported by our fully undrawn to the smaller risks to which we now have access through our banking facility.
As the implementation of Solvency II US underwriters.
Two years ago, many insurers of professional approaches, we now measure our capital using a Solvency II indemnity and management liability business had yet to adjust balance sheet where we are targeting a surplus capital buffer their pricing to take account of very weak investment returns.
We continue to manage our capital That process began in 2012 and has continued through actively and to the extent that we have surplus capital outside 2013 and 2014: we believe it still has a little way to run.
of this range the board will consider means to return this capital to shareholders, as demonstrated through the announcement As rates return to more attractive levels, we have been working of a special dividend in 2014. hard to improve our access to the best business that brokers can show us.
Our distribution strategy is deliberately flexible: Outlook we work closely with both retail brokers and wholesale brokers, Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the as well as with managing general agents or Lloyds coverholders highest performing specialist insurer.
Clearly we are at a whom we know and trust.
These relationships take time to juncture that requires tight underwriting and expense discipline.
With a ten year track record in the US and a proven Alongside this, however, the most successful insurers will have commitment to our selected lines of business, we are now the confidence and capacity to invest in profitable growth regarded by US brokers as we have long been regarded by opportunities at a time when competitors may be holding back.
London brokers as a dependable and knowledgeable partner.
It is a difficult balance but the board is confident that your company possesses the skills and resources required and Wherever we operate, innovative products and well designed remains on track to achieve its vision.
services are key elements of the Beazley value proposition for brokers.
For example in Europe we have two particularly attractive offerings: Beazley Breach Response, our data breach Dennis Holt policy that has developed since 2009 into a market leader in Chairman the US, and MyBeazley.
com, an e-trading platform for small scale professional indemnity business meticulously designed 4 February 2015 to enhance the service brokers can offer to their small business clients.
