Overview Chairmans statement OVERVIEW shareholders on the Companys register on 27 March 2015 ex 2014 was a challenging year for the Company.
Against a dividend date is 26 March 2015. backdrop of slowing global growth, the Board had taken the ROYALTIES AND UNQUOTED INVESTMENTS decision in the previous year to allocate up to 20% of assets in During the year, the Companys performance was negatively unquoted investments including mining royalties, equities and impacted by the write down to zero of the holding in both the bonds.
The strategic rationale for investing in royalties was, London Mining Marampa royalty contract and convertible and remains, attractive in that it allows the Company to bond.
In addition, the Board decided to hold the gold-linked participate in long term production revenues by providing preference shares in Banro Corporation at a 30% discount to nancing at a time of global banking constraint.
However, the the implied gold price and the corporate bond at a 25% Companys exposure to the London Mining Marampa royalty discount to the last traded price, following the latters contract was impacted by two unforeseen factors: the rapid nancing delay which increased the likelihood of the company and substantial decline in iron ore pricing following a collapse requiring alternative sources of funding.
At the end of February in Chinese demand and the spread of Ebola in West Africa.
Our 2015, following details of Banros additional nancing, the subsequent decision to write down the value of our investment Board concluded that it was appropriate to reduce the in London Mining was taken only after careful consideration discount on the gold-linked preference shares to 15% and the with our advisers.
discount on the corporate bond to 10%.
The discount at the The Board is fully aware of the resultant effect on year end is considered appropriate as the new nancing shareholders and, on behalf of my fellow Directors, I should details in uencing the reduction of the discount in February like to offer our most sincere regret.
Our responsibility to your were not in existence at 31 December 2014.
Further Company is one we take most seriously.
Accordingly, we are information on these investments can be found in the working closely with BlackRock to ensure that the Company Investment Managers Report.
continues to employ, and re ne on an ongoing basis, robust Going forward, the Board has re ned the guidelines associated diligence and supervisory processes designed to minimise the with the Companys royalty strategy.
In August 2013, risk of such issues arising in the future, so far as it is within shareholders voted to allow up to 20% of the Companys gross the power of the Board and the Investment Manager to do so.
assets to be invested in unquoted investments including In this way, we hope to continue to capture the very signi cant royalties previously 10%.
It is proposed to maintain the 20% opportunities that we believe exist in this sector with maximum exposure to royalties but the royalty unquoted appropriate diversi cation of risk.
portfolio should itself deliver diversi cation across operator, Although the commodity markets remain volatile, since the country and commodity.
To this end, new investments into year end we have been encouraged by the cautious approach individual royalties unquoted investments should not exceed taken by a number of reporting companies.
Capital circa 3% of gross assets at the time of investment.
Total expenditures have been reined in to sustain dividends and the exposure to any single operator, including other issued Company remains well positioned to take advantage of an securities such as debt and or equity, where greater than 30% eventual recovery in sentiment through a broad exposure to of that operators revenues come from the mine over which the world class producers.
royalty lies, must also not be greater than 3% at the time of investment.
In addition, the guidelines require that the PERFORMANCE Investment Manager must manage total exposure to a single Over the twelve months to 31 December 2014 performance operator, via reducing exposure to that operators listed was very disappointing, with the Companys net asset value securities if they are also held in the portfolio, in a timely NAV per share declining by 26.4% and the Companys share manner where royalties unquoted investments are revalued price declining by 30.4%.
The Companys benchmark index, the upwards.
In the jurisdictions where statutory royalties are Euromoney Global Mining Index, declined by 13.0% in the possible in countries where mineral rights are privately same period all percentages calculated in sterling terms with owned these will be preferred and in respect of contractual income reinvested.
royalties a contractual obligation entered into by the operator Since the year end and up until the close of business on and typically unsecured the valuation must take into account 17March 2015, the Companys NAV has declined by 2.5% the higher credit risk involved.
Board approval will continue to compared with a decline of 1.9% in the benchmark index.
be required for all royalty unquoted investments.
REVENUE RETURN AND DIVIDEND DISCOUNT The Companys revenue return per share for the year to The discount to net assets averaged 5.0% over the past year, 31December 2014 amounted to 21.13p compared with 22.36p ranging from a discount of 13.5% to a premium of 3.9% and for the previous year, representing a decrease of 5.5%.
ended the year at a discount of 11.9% all measured on a cum income basis.
The Companys discount has since widened to The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 13.3% as at the close of business on 17 March 2015.
14.00p per share for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: 14.00p which, together with the interim dividend of 7.00p per The Board recognises the importance to shareholders that the share 2013: 7.00p, makes a total dividend of 21.00p per share Companys shares should not trade at a signi cant discount to 2013: 21.00p.
The final dividend is payable on 8 May 2015 to [4] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC the underlying net asset value.
In recent years, the Board has The Board intends to keep fee rates under review.
In placed much greater emphasis on seeking to close the determining the appropriate rate, particular note will continue discount through generating additional demand for the shares to be taken of the Managers performance relative to the by increasing dividend distributions and illustrating the benchmark and the views of shareholders, as well as more sustainability of these distributions through diversi cation of general trends in the marketplace.
Recent events, along with mining sector weakness, JULIAN BARING SCHOLARSHIP FUND have clearly impacted this strategy: however dividends remain The Julian Baring Scholarship Fund was created in the name key to discount management although not at the expense of of well-known fund manager, Julian Baring, in celebration of potential capital growth.
his two great passions mining and Africa.
The advisers to the The Board regularly reviews the use of the Companys share buy Fund, with the support of the industry, endow annual back powers.
The existing authority to buy back up to 14.99% of scholarships for talented, but nancially disadvantaged, the Companys issued share capital will expire at the conclusion African students to continue their studies and to pursue a of the 2015 Annual General Meeting and a resolution will be put career in the mining industry.
The Fund has awarded to shareholders to renew the authority at that meeting.
scholarships to over forty individuals in mining related faculties at South African universities with which it is THE BOARD associated and has also set up joint ventures with several I am pleased to report that Judith Mosely joined the Board on African-based mining companies which award scholarships to 19 August 2014 and is also a member of the Audit & deserving individuals from those companies.
Judith is Business Development Director for Rand Merchant Bank in London with During the year, the Company made a donation of 12,000 to responsibility for developing the banks African business with the Julian Baring Scholarship Fund.
It is hoped that with international mining and metals companies.
She also sits on further support both in terms of funding and corporate the advisory board of Women in Mining and brings a wealth of partnerships, the Julian Baring Scholarship Fund will be able mining and commercial experience.
to make an even greater contribution to the skills and resources available to the mining industry.
PORTFOLIO MANAGERS With effect from 30 April 2015, the Companys investments will ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING be co-managed by Evy Hambro and Olivia Markham.
The The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the present co-manager, Catherine Raw, has informed the Board of ces of BlackRock at 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London she is to take up a corporate position within the mining sector EC2N2DL on Wednesday, 29 April 2015 at 11.30 a. m. Details of and will be leaving BlackRock on 30 April.
The Board would like the business of the meeting are set out in the Notice of to express its thanks to Catherine for her contribution on Meeting on pages 75 to 78 of the Annual Report and Financial behalf of the Company since 2009.
The Portfolio Managers will make a presentation BlackRocks Natural Resources team in 2011.
She has 11 years to shareholders on the Companys performance and the of industry experience, having formerly been the head of outlook for the year ahead.
European mining research at UBS, a mining analyst at Merrill OUTLOOK Lynch in Sydney and a member of the Mergers & Acquisitions Growing concerns over a slowdown in the Eurozone and team at BHP Billiton in Melbourne.
emerging economies, a strong US dollar and a well-supplied INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEE oil market have contributed to a weakening of many Following a review of the investment management fee, the commodity prices since the summer of 2014.
This does not Board has agreed with the Manager that the investment paint a particularly optimistic outlook for 2015, especially as management fee including administration and company commodity markets are likely to remain volatile, with secretarial services will be amended as follows: continued concerns over emerging market growth, in ated inventory levels and a buoyant US dollar creating headwinds.
It With effect from 1 July 2015 the annual fee, chargeable on the is hoped that the second half of the year may see an gross assets under management, will be reduced from a at improvement, as capital expenditure reductions made in prior fee of 130bps to: years take effect on the rate of supply growth and concerns X 120bps on the first 500 million of gross assets over commodity demand growth abate.
With mining company management continuing to deliver operationally and with a X 100bps on the next 500 million focus on capital discipline and improved returns to X 85bps on gross assets above 1 billion shareholders, absent a further deterioration in the global macroeconomic environment, these factors should be However, between 1 April 2015 and 30 June 2015, the annual supportive of valuations.
fee, chargeable on the gross assets under management, will be further reduced to: X 110bps on the first 500 million of gross assets A W LEA Chairman X 70bps on the next 500 million 19 March 2015 X 40bps on gross assets above 1 billion ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [5]
