Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a year of good performance for your Company.
2014 saw a total net asset value return of 6.9% Sterling Shares, produced in a very consistent fashion and with very low volatility.
The year was by no means an easy one in financial markets with occasionally treacherous conditions in credit markets, emerging markets and commodities.
At the same time the geo-political backdrop deteriorated with growing tensions in Russia and the Middle East as well as continued threats to the stability of the Eurozone.
That said, economic growth was generally more encouraging, at least in the Anglo-Saxon economies, and monetary policy remained highly accommodative at a global level.
This saw 2014 end on a rather more cheerful note.
That the Company was able to successfully navigate these choppy seas is a testament to the inherent, embedded diversification in AllBlue.
2014 saw the introduction of a new fund into AllBlue, BlueCrest Equity Strategies Fund BESF, a discretionary equity fund.
BESF is largely equity neutral but your board, along with many other investors, were alert to the impact that this could have upon the equity sensitivity of the overall portfolio.
However, correlations between the seven funds that comprise AllBlue and to the various asset markets remain very low and there is no increase in the equity linkage of returns.
Furthermore, all seven funds produced positive returns for the calendar year.
As reported in the Investment Managers report later, BlueCrest see good opportunities for both BESF and BlueCrest Quantitative Equity Fund in 2015 and, at the time of writing, they have indeed started the year on the front foot.
In January 2015 a notable landmark was quietly passed by the Company.
Since the Companys launch in 2006 it has now returned over 100% to investors, an annualised return of 8.4% from inception to 31st January 2015, Sterling NAV.
I believe that it is important to retain this longer term perspective as we review each months or each years performance.
There have, of course, been some years that have been highly fruitful and some years that have been less rewarding.
However AllBlue retains an enviable boast that it has produced a positive return over every rolling 12 month period since inception with very low volatility.
Such robust defensive characteristics, when combined with strong long term returns, have ever greater value in a world of such uncertainty.
3 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Chairmans Statement 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 May 06 May 07 May 08 May 09 May 10 May 11 May 12 May 13 May 14 Sterling NAV p Sterling share price p Equities Source: Bloomberg.
Performance is from inception to 31 January 2015.
Sterling NAV p and Sterling share price p are for BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Sterling Share Class.
Equities is the FTSE 100 Total Return Index rebased to 100.
BOARD SUCCESSION As I reported to you in the half year financial statements, Steve Le Page joined the Board in June 2014 as Chairman of the Audit Committee, in the place of Jonathan Hooley.
Steve has already made a valuable contribution around the Board table.
As I have always said to those of you that I have met in person, I believe that your Company has one of the strongest boards that I know, in terms of experience, skills, diversity of thought and constructive engagement.
However, three of us, John Le Prevost, Paul Meader and I, have been on the Board since the Companys inception in 2006.
The UK Code of Corporate Governance recommends that directors should not remain beyond nine years and all three of us are approaching that anniversary.
We are alert, however, to the need for orderly succession and the retention of corporate memory.
As a result, our intention is that one of each of the three directors should step aside in each calendar year starting in 2015.
Consequently we have already begun a search process and have retained Thomas & Dessain International Search and Selection to manage a structured and thorough search process.
We are, of course, very alert to the need for board diversification and the expectations that investors, governments and regulators have regarding board composition for companies that are members of the FTSE350.
I look forward to reporting to you further on this matter in due course.
4 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Chairmans Statement GOVERNANCE Good governance remains at the heart of our work as a board and is taken very seriously.
In addition, the Board is very active.
It meets regularly to a formal timetable but also meets for a large number of additional meetings.
During 2014, we held a total of 12 Board meetings and 34 committee meetings.
In order to respond to the evolution of the regulatory and governance landscape, the Company established a Risk Committee in April 2014 which is chaired by Paul Meader.
This committee is focused primarily on investment related risks, the Audit Committee retaining responsibility for other risks.
The two committees do, however, work hand in glove.
Later in this report, Mr Meader details the remit and the work undertaken by the Risk Committee and I am pleased to report that the process has brought value to the identification, management and, where possible, mitigation of risks.
It has also brought a sharper focus that can only be of benefit to shareholders.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION We have continued our programme of active shareholder engagement during 2014.
I sincerely hope that you find the factsheets and other information valuable.
The work previously undertaken by the Board and BlueCrest has been enhanced during the year by the appointment of Broker Profile.
Broker Profile is a specialist investor relations consultancy and we have been pleased with their progress to date in enabling us to meet new shareholders as well as reacquaint ourselves with existing investors.
As in previous years, I would reiterate that we are always pleased to have contact from shareholders and meet as many of you as possible.
In addition, any feedback on the information that we provide is most welcome.
If you are not on our mailing list and would like to receive regular updates, please email info@bluecrestallblue.
DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT Whilst the shares finished the year at a discount to net asset value of 4.6% Sterling class, that discount has been stable for much of the year and within the bounds that we understand most shareholders find acceptable.
As a Board, we regularly weigh the balance between maintaining liquidity of the shares, the stability of the discount and the desire of shareholders to see the shares trade as closely as possible to their intrinsic value.
During 2014, the Company repurchased 61.8 million Sterling shares and $5.8 million US Dollar shares.
Because these repurchases took place at a discount, they created an uplift of 0.40% to the Sterling net asset value and 0.36% to the USD net asset value in 2014.
5 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Chairmans Statement BLUECREST The close of 2014 saw some structural changes at BlueCrest.
With effect from 1 January 2015 the systematic trading business of BlueCrest has been spun out into a new investment management company, Systematica Investments.
Systematica is led by Leda Braga who both ran the systematic trading desk at BlueCrest and was also President of BlueCrest.
Mike Platt, a founder of BlueCrest, remains with BlueCrest which manages the five discretionary trading funds and BlueCrest Quantitative Equity Fund, the successor to BlueMatrix within AllBlue.
Close links, both financial and personal, remain between the two firms.
In addition, there has been no erosion to the infrastructure of BlueCrest.
The Board spent some time examining the issues associated with this and is satisfied that it is very much a case of business as usual and will have no detrimental impact on AllBlue or the Company.
As in previous years, we have also made an annual visit to BlueCrests offices.
We met key front office personnel and also those responsible for areas such as controls, compliance, risk and internal audit.
LOOKING FORWARD It is easy to focus on the negatives in the global economic, political and financial outlook.
The media thrive on such matters.
However, there are also signs that the global economy is healing and that the extraordinary monetary and fiscal policies implemented around the world are working, even if we do not yet understand the real, long term implications.
There is little doubt that volatility will continue in 2015 and beyond and that fixed income markets, in particular, are problematic for investors, whether through a move to negative yields or the risk of a sharp increase in yields as monetary policy is tightened.
Against this backdrop, BlueCrest AllBlue Fund would seem to continue to command a strong place in investors portfolios, where its long term proven characteristics of diversification, attractive returns and good liquidity are more essential than ever.
I look forward to reporting to you again with the half year results.
Yours faithfully Richard Crowder Chairman 6 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
