Overview Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, It gives me pleasure to report a year of solid achievement, providing value for our clients and returns to our shareholders.
Progress continues to be made in the streamlining of the businessand this has been reflected in the improving profit margin.
Focus Our focus remains unchanged.
It is to be the leading provider of Discretionary Wealth Management in the UK.
We are committed to providing our clients with the highest possible level of customer service.
They are at the heart of what we do and, in the coming year, we will seek further opportunities to engage with them.
In so doing we are driving organic growth in the business and, by simultaneously focusing on efficiency, returns to shareholders will improve in line with earnings.
Board In my 2013 report I mentioned the work being done to reshape the Board.
Since becoming Chairman, I have been determined to ensure that we have a Board that provides a channel for discussion with shareholders, maintains a good relationship with regulators and sets the tone for everything the business Simon Miller does.
The board of a financial services firm Chairman needs to be strong in relevant expertise, not only to support the Management Team, but also to provide appropriate challenge.
Accordingly, we took a number of steps in2014 to further strengthen the Board.
4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Angela Knight has been appointed Margin improvement is being brought Dividend history: SeniorIndependent Director and about by standardisation and simplification pence per share IanDewar the Chairman of the in the business, allied to our focus on AuditCommittee.
In addition two new growth.
We will continue to invest in Non-Executive Directors, Paul Wilson and technology solutions, but as an enabler 9.9 Caroline Taylor have joined the Board, with of our current strategy, rather than as the 8.6 Paul Wilson taking on the Chairmanship primary driver of continuing improvement.
I am 5.05 3.55 3.55 3.60 confident that these appointments, Regulatory together with the steps thatwe have taken We are a growing business working to strengthen the senior management team, will ensure that we have a Board within an ever changing regulatory 3.55 3.55 3.55 3.55 3.65 landscape that has led to increased that is well placed tooversee the activities 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 of Brewin Dolphin.
scrutiny of financial services firms.
Proactive engagement has enabled us Michael Williams and Sir Stephen Lamport to work closely with the regulator as it have announced their intention to step shapes guidance in the interests of our down from the Board at the AGM in clients.
We are particularly encouraged Shareholders February 2015.
Michael has made an by the Financial Conduct Authoritys We endeavour to maintain an effective and enormous contribution to Brewin Dolphin FCA recent consultation Clarifying the regular dialogue with our shareholders.
and has been an active member of the boundaries and exploring the barriers to The views of our shareholders help shape Board since the firms incorporation in market development and we continue to our decision making.
His unstinting loyalty and huge engage with the regulator as this guidance experience will be missed from the Board.
This years AGM will be held at 11.30am He intends to continue to devote his time on 20 February 2015 at the Lincoln to his clients.
Sir Stephen has decided to Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London Employees step down after seven years as a Director WC2A 3ED.
I very much hope you are during which time he has set up and Delivering strong results while improving able to attend.
chaired our new Corporate Responsibility efficiency is a challenge.
His support and advice over a Management Team has driven period of change have proved invaluable.
considerable change throughout the organisation, achieved with the skill and Technology commitment of our staff.
It remains for me to thank all of our employees for their Simon Miller In May, after a comprehensive review, contribution and dedication that has Chairman we announced the decision to terminate enabled us to deliver these results.
the roll out of a new operating system 2 December 2014 into the Discretionary Wealth business.
Dividend This was not an easy decision for the Board to make, but one which we believe The Board is proposing a final dividend of was correct and in the long-term interests 6.25p per share, to be paid on 23 March of shareholders, clients, and employees.
2015 to shareholders on the register on In August, we announced full and final 6 March 2015.
This will bring the total settlement of outstanding contractual dividend for the period to 9.9p per share obligations.
We look forward to working 2013: 8.6p.
with our incumbent technology providers to ensure that our systems remain appropriate for the needs of the business.
Biographies of each Director are shown on pages 36 and 37 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 Strategic Report Strategic Report In this section Strategic Report 8 Business Description 10 Market Environment 12 Objectives and Strategy 14 Progress Report 17 Results 24 Key Performance Indicators 27 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 33 Future Developments 6 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
