18 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dr Richard Ward Chairman 2014 HAS BEEN A SIGNIFICANT YEAR FOR BRIT.
Offer from Fairfax STRATEGICALLY WE HAVE MADE ENCOURAGING On 17 February 2015, we announced an offer for Brit PROGRESS IN DELIVERING OUR AMBITION TO BECOME from Fairfax.
Brits Board was pleased to recommend THE LEADING GLOBAL SPECIALTY INSURER.
FINANCIALLY, this combination with Fairfax, which I believe will greatly OUR UNDERWRITING, INVESTMENT AND OPERATIONAL assist us in delivering our strategy of building the leading PERFORMANCE ALL CONTRIBUTED TO AN EXCELLENT global speciality re insurer.
The proposed deal provides an RONTA OF 20.7%.
MOST IMPORTANTLY, 2014 SAW BRITS exciting opportunity to deliver our growth ambitions.
Our SUCCESSFUL RETURN TO THE MARKET FOLLOWING OUR simple and capital-efficient Lloyds focused platform make INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING IPO OF 25% OF THE COMPANY us an attractive partner for Fairfax and our shared values in IN APRIL.
underwriting discipline, speciality lines focus, operational rigour and meticulous claims management make this Our return to the market was met with significant investor transaction a compelling proposition for all stakeholders.
interest and I see this as pleasing recognition of the major The offer represents a strong result for all our shareholders transformation our business has achieved over the past six and produces attractive financial returns following our years and the strong track record of professionalism and successful IPO in April 2014. performance that we have built over that time.
This is thanks to the hard work and dedication of our employees and the Performance support and trust of our clients and shareholders.
Having been Our key differentiators are our focused Lloyds platform, our CEO of Lloyds for eight years, until the end of 2013, I have underwriting strategy and our investment strategy.
We have seen from a distance how much commitment this repositioning made good progress against all of our strategic priorities in has taken from all areas of the business and my first-hand 2014 and delivered the targets we set at the time of the IPO.
experience over the 12 months since I joined the Board as In underwriting, we have reported an excellent combined Chairman has further demonstrated what an exceptional job ratio of 89.5% underpinned by another year of attractive the management team has done.
I am confident this is the attritional loss ratio performance.
We have also developed our best team to lead the business forward for you.
international capabilities by delivering profitable growth in our US platform, which is now reaching significant scale, as well as our specialist Bermudian operations.
In investments, our dynamic and active strategy continues to set us apart from our peers, with a decision to focus on income generating assets across a broad range of asset classes, generating another year of outperformance, with a return of 2.9%, well above investment benchmarks.
Capital advantages The Brit business model remains simple but very effective.
Our decision to focus our capital solely on the Lloyds platform creates excellent capital efficiency, and our strict approach to cost control allows us to operate a flexible and scalable model STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 19 I absolutely believe that we have the right platform and business mix to deliver sector-leading returns for shareholders in this challenging insurance rate and low yield environment.
This platform has enabled us to deliver capability selectively, with significant opportunities to grow attractive returns 20.7% in 2014 despite challenging market in mature markets such as the US and Bermuda, where we conditions and to maintain a strong balance sheet, pursue have achieved critical mass and expect to capitalise further growth opportunities and to support a consistent dividend on our investments in 2015.
We also see opportunities in key for shareholders.
I am delighted that we have delivered an growth markets over the longer-term such as building on the ordinary dividend of 18.75p per share for 2014 and a further capability of our Latin America team in Miami and growing our special dividend of 12.5p, driven by this years excellent result presence in China.
and our rigorous capital management strategy.
We expect 2015 to be another difficult year for the insurance Brit strategy and outlook industry but we remain committed to delivering our goal of Looking forward, the financial landscape in which the mid-teen RoNTA for our shareholders.
We have the capital insurance industry operates continues to offer material strength and exceptional talent within our business to navigate challenges.
Exceptionally low interest rates, geopolitical these demanding conditions and to continue to innovate and uncertainty, global growth concerns and market volatility mean take advantage of opportunities for incremental growth as that the industry continues to face a testing back drop.
I look back at 2014 with immense pride the insurance industry capital availability is increasing from at what has been achieved and I look forward with confidence both traditional and non-traditional sources and we expect and realism that we have the platform and the people to this to create further competition and pressure on pricing and deliver strong returns for shareholders.
These new forms of capital, along with evolving distribution channels and constant improvements Finally, I express my sincere appreciation to the Board, the in technology continue to challenge industry norms and as executive and all the staff at Brit for their contribution and for a Board we will be mindful as to how we can react to this their ongoing commitment to delivering our strategy and for landscape quickly and drive the Brit and industry agenda.
helping the business take another significant step forward to becoming the leading global specialty insurer.
I absolutely believe that we have the right platform and business mix to deliver sector-leading returns for shareholders in this challenging insurance rate and low yield environment.
However, to maintain strong profitability, we must focus more Dr Richard Ward than ever on our underwriting discipline, risk selection and 24 February 2015 capital management.
Integral to this is maintaining good relationships with brokers, clients, cover holders and most importantly our regulators.
Brit is in a unique position as the largest Lloyds-only insurance business and we plan to develop this business by continuing to invest in our people, by attracting top talent and by supporting the innovation of new products to meet our clients needs.
We also plan to build out our global distribution
