04 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement This report covers the period from 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 and is the second which we have produced under the UKs narrative reporting framework.
As last year, we have elected to include the Chairmans Statement within the Strategic Report in order to minimise duplication.
You will also find enclosed with this Annual Report a letter asking whether you would prefer to receive future communications in electronic form rather than printed.
I encourage you to consider the electronic option in the interests of efficiency.
Overall, the year has again been one of progress, the NAV total return being 6.8% and with some outperformance against our core benchmark.
There has been substantial change in the portfolio, with 19 new investments purchased at wide discounts to NAV.
The Company has also continued to buy back its own shares.
Strone Macpherson The discount has reduced over the year from 11.8% to 10.3%.
Chairman There has been much work done, and costs incurred, in completing the transition to the new regulatory framework and in refreshing the investment information provided to existing and potential investors through the various channels now available.
Regulation With effect from 17 July 2014, the Company entered into the arrangements necessary to ensure compliance with the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
The Companys Board approved the appointment of our existing Investment Manager, AVI, as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager under the terms of a new investment management agreement between the Company and AVI: key commercial terms, including the management fee and notice period, remained unchanged.
AVI has been approved as an AIFM by the UKs Financial Conduct Authority.
The Board has also appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act as the Companys Depositary a new function required by the AIFMD.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA will remain as the Companys Custodian.
In common with other investment trusts, we incurred substantial costs in implementing these regulatory changes.
The net effect of the new regulations will unfortunately add some additional annual costs from now on, primarily as a result of the new requirement to employ a depositary.
Against these costs, shareholders will benefit from some extra protection from the effects of unforeseen events and in the security of assets.
I would like to record the Boards thanks to AVI and to all of our suppliers for their efforts in bringing this process to a satisfactory conclusion.
05 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Changes to Articles of Association As indicated in the Half Year Report to 31 March 2014, net income As part of the arrangements to comply with the AIFMD, we have and earnings per share this year are lower than last year, driven by a also reviewed with external advisers the Articles of Association number of different factors.
Underlying portfolio income was lower as of the Company, which were last reviewed and updated in 2009, the Investment Manager made significant adjustments to the holdings, to ensure that they remain in line with current best practice.
details of which are set out in the Investment Managers Review.
Key A number of amendments this year have been recommended changes included sales of Vivendi and Orkla, both of which had paid which will be put forward at the AGM as a Special Resolution, substantial ordinary and special dividends in past years, and which as described on pages 33 and 34.
The amendments are technical were sold at low discounts.
The new investments generally have lower in nature and I hope that you will support them.
dividend yields, but were purchased on low valuations.
NAV Costs For the year under review, the NAV of the Company rose by 6.8% The ratio of ongoing charges rose during the year due to a number on a total return basis.
This compares with an increase in our lead of reasons.
benchmark, the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, of 5.1%.
The Morningstar Investment Trust Global Index and the MSCI All Country As I reported last year, with effect from 1 October 2013, the base World Index were up by 9.2% and 11.8% respectively, reflecting the annual management fee increased from 0.6% to 0.7% of net assets.
continuing strong performance of the US markets where we have No further performance fees will be payable.
Your Company has incurred significant legal and other costs this The strength of the US markets and the weakness of the Euro year as the result of the implementation of the AIFMD.
In addition, have held back the level of returns.
The key theme driving the in the light of the Retail Distribution Review, your Company has strong relative performance compared with the lead benchmark increased its marketing budget and reviewed thoroughly its approach was the overall returns of our investments in European holding to, and investment in, explaining its investment strategy.
It has companies and closed-end funds as described in more detail increased the frequency of meetings with investors and reviewed in the Investment Managers Review.
its website strategy to ensure that the news provided by the Investment Manager to investors through all channels is coherent Between the year end and 5 November 2014, the latest date for and clear and that the Investment Managers valuable time is most which data is available, the Companys net asset value decreased productively spent.
by 1.1% compared with a return of -0.3% by the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index on a total return basis.
As stated in the Half Year Report, the Board has reviewed its policy of charging a proportion of management costs to capital.
Previously, At the time of writing, liquidity stands at 9.0%, compared with the annual management fee was allocated 50% to revenue and 50% 1.7% at the year end and a range of 1.5% to 15.1% during the to capital, but 100% of the cost of servicing debt was charged to year under review.
It is clear that a much higher proportion of long-term total returns has been the result of capital growth rather than revenue and Since the year end, the Company has hedged part of its exposure this is expected to continue.
Therefore, from this financial year, the to the Japanese Yen.
Board has decided that 70% of the annual management fee and 70% of the cost of servicing the Companys debt will be allocated to capital Income and 30% allocated to revenue.
This is in line with the policy set out in Your Company is managed with a target of producing superior capital the Statement of Recommended Practice for Investment Trusts issued growth and the Board believes that it would be inappropriate to set by the Association of Investment Companies and the practice adopted any income requirement for the Investment Manager which could by similar investment companies.
This change in policy has resulted compromise their ability to deliver this primary objective.
in a modest increase in the revenue available for distribution by way of dividend than would otherwise have been the case.
06 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Dividend Board The Company has accumulated significant revenue reserves in Again this year, in line with accepted best practice, each of the past years with a view to ensuring that AVI can maintain the freedom Directors is subject to re-election.
Your Board carries out an to pursue the primary objective of the Company, which is capital annual review of its effectiveness and every three years carries growth.
Our reserves give us flexibility in our dividend policy without out an independent external review, led by a specialist in this field.
constraining the Investment Manager in the pursuit of this goal.
This external review concluded that the Directors qualifications, Given the changes in the portfolio, the lower net income and the effectiveness, performance and contribution to the Board are of additional regulatory and other costs charged to revenue this year, a high standard.
All of the Directors are therefore offering themselves we are using our reserves this year to maintain the core dividend.
A dividend of 2.0 pence per share was paid at the half year stage Administration and the Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.5 pence.
With effect from 1 April 2014, Capita Company Secretarial Services The total ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year took over as corporate Company Secretary and AVI has also subamount to 10.5 pence per share, which is unchanged from contracted certain fund administration services to Capita Asset last years ordinary dividends.
There will be no special dividend Services.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our previous this year.
suppliers, Phoenix Administration Services, for their diligent service over the last 10 years.
Discount The year ended with the discount at 10.3%, down from 11.8% Outlook one year ago and 13.7% at the half year end.
During the year, the It is most encouraging that, even after several years of equity discount has been between 10.3% and 14.3%.
As indicated in the markets recovering from the financial crisis, the Investment Manager Half Year Report, the Board has conducted an internal review and an is continuing to find quality businesses to invest in and at significant independent external review of its buy back strategy and alternatives, discounts to their NAV.
and these have endorsed the current approach.
Over the year, the Company has bought back 9.4m shares, which has not prevented The bigger picture around the world looks rather more uncomfortable us from making a significant number of new investments, and has than even a few months ago.
The prospect of rising interest rates in enhanced NAV per share by 0.8%.
the US is becoming more real, yet the near-term economic outlook for Continental Europe seems to have worsened considerably and strengthened the likelihood of easy monetary policy for some time to come.
In addition to these factors, there has been a welcome but unexpected weakness in the oil price.
There is potential danger in the Ukraine and in the Middle East with ISIS.
There is also less certainty about Chinas rate of economic growth and the impact of this on the world economy.
The weaker Euro should eventually benefit the strong exporters within Europe.
In the UK, of course, we face a year of political change, with a general election only a few months away and the recent party conferences have made clear the significant decisions which the electorate faces.
07 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Your Board formally considers the continuing appointment of AVI each year and remains vigorous in evaluating and monitoring AVIs style and investment progress against this background.
It is confident that AVI can continue to produce good returns in the long term.
Your Board is also encouraged by the strongly positive feedback from visits to institutional investors by your Investment Manager made over the past few months as a result of the enhanced marketing initiatives.
Increasing levels of corporate activity in the past have often been the catalyst for realising the value of the sort of investments which your Investment Manager specialises in.
The portfolio looks to contain a good store of value and is, overall, well positioned.
The Strategic Report has been approved and signed on the Boards behalf.
