40 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonias The Remuneration Committee ensures Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2014. that remuneration arrangements support New basis of remuneration disclosure the strategic aims of the business and and shareholder voting As heralded in last years report, new remuneration reporting enable the recruitment, motivation and regulations put forward by the Department for Business Innovation and Skills became law with effect from 1 October retention of senior executives of the 2013.
This years Directors remuneration report is therefore calibre needed to manage and grow the presented in a new format designed to comply with these regulations the Large and Medium-sized Companies and company successfully.
Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations and is also prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The report now comprises three sections as follows: an annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, which summarises and explains the major decisions taken and changes made in relation to directors remuneration during the year a forward looking remuneration policy, which describes the Membership and attendance companys remuneration framework and how it is aligned The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration with its business strategy, summarises the key elements of Committee during the year was as follows: directors pay and illustrates levels of total remuneration that may be paid to the executive directors in different scenarios Meetings Meetings eligible an annual report on directors remuneration, which sets out attended to attend the amounts actually paid to directors in respect of the year C H Gregson Chairman 5 5 under review and the value of long term incentive awards that C M Allen-Jones 5 5 vested in that period.
R B Woods 4 5 1 D G F Thompson 3 3 Shareholders will be asked to approve the remuneration policy and the annual report on directors remuneration for the year 1.
Mr Thompson retired as a member of the committee on 24 July 2013. ended 31 March 2014 separately by simple majority votes at the companys annual general meeting on 17 July 2014, the vote on the remuneration policy being binding on the company, whereas the vote on the annual report on directors remuneration will as was the case with previous directors remuneration reports be advisory in nature only.
The Regulations require that the remuneration policy be approved by shareholders at least every three years, although an earlier vote will be required if the Remuneration Committee wishes to implement any policy changes or if an advisory vote on an annual report on directors remuneration is not passed.
A resolution to approve the annual report on directors remuneration must be put to shareholders every year.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the companys auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the directors remuneration report and to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on directors remuneration that have been audited are indicated in that report.
The annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the policy on directors remuneration are not subject to audit.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 41 In line with good practice, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration for the 2014 financial year has also introduced provisions into Caledonias performance Turning to the year under review, as described in the Chairmans share scheme and deferred bonus plan, which will give the and Chief Executives report, Caledonia has delivered strong Remuneration Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested performance in the year to 31 March 2014.
NAV per share on awards in the event of a material misstatement of the companys a total return basis NAVTR increased by 14.9%, compared financial results, a miscalculation of a participants entitlement, with an increase of 2.5% in the Retail Prices Index RPI, which misconduct on the part of the participant or an event resulting the Remuneration Committee introduced as a measure of the in material loss or reputational damage to the company or a companys performance for annual bonuses this year in order to member of the group.
These are commonly known as malus reward executives only when positive real returns are generated provisions and will apply to share based awards granted after for shareholders.
On the basis of the companys relative 1 April 2014. performance against RPI over the year and after assessing the performance of the individual directors against the personal Remuneration for the 2015 financial year objectives set for them at the start of the year and, where Looking ahead to the 2015 financial year, basic salaries of relevant, pool performance and objectives, the Remuneration executive directors have been increased with effect from 1 April Committee decided that it was appropriate to award the 2014 by 2.5%, which was the same as the standard increase maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic salary to each given to the companys staff generally and mirrored the rise in of the executive directors.
the cost of living as measured by RPI of 2.5%.
The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees were last reviewed in The year to 31 March 2014 also represented the end of the three April 2011 and these have therefore also been increased by 10%, year performance measurement period for awards granted in line with inflation since that date.
in 2011 under the companys performance share scheme and matching shares under the deferred bonus plan.
For the 2011 As explained in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report, matching awards under the deferred bonus plan, the targets the board has recently decided to adopt RPI as the basis of were that, for 50% of the shares comprised in an award to vest, measurement of Caledonias performance over the medium, Caledonias undiluted net asset value per share NAV would as well as the shorter, term in place of the FTSE index.
In the have to outperform RPI by at least 9% over the measurement light of this, the Remuneration Committee will be considering period, and for the other 50%, Caledonias NAV would have to whether RPI should also be adopted as the benchmark index for outperform the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3% over the the companys share incentive plans, in place of the FTSE index measurement period.
Both targets were met and therefore all and Gilts index currently used.
Other than this, no changes in of the 2011 deferred bonus matching shares have vested.
the basis of directors remuneration are anticipated for the 2015 financial year.
For the 2011 performance share scheme awards, the performance targets were that, for two-thirds of the shares Shareholder consultation comprised in an award, Caledonias NAVTR had to outperform The remuneration policy that we are now asking shareholders to the FTSE All-Share Total Return index FTSE index and, approve embodies the fundamental principles that have guided for the other third, the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts our Remuneration Committee for many years, namely that we all-stocks Total Return index Gilts index over the three year aim to attract and retain talented individuals needed to manage measurement period, in each case with shares vesting on a and grow our business successfully and to motivate them with graduated basis between 0.5% and 3.5% outperformance.
Whilst packages that are closely linked to the companys long term Caledonias NAVTR has outperformed both of these benchmark performance and strategy.
We endeavour to ensure that the indices over the past two financial years, underperformance quantum of our pay is competitive, but not excessive, and that we in the 2012 financial year prior to the implementation of the reward success when earned, but not failure.
Most importantly, companys revised strategy meant that neither performance we seek to align the interests of those who manage our company target was met and accordingly the 2011 awards lapsed in their with the shareholders who own it.
For this years performance share scheme awards, the Remuneration Committee commenced a phased move towards We have taken the opportunity to consult with some of our a longer performance period for a significant proportion of the larger shareholders and certain institutional shareholder shares comprised therein, in order better to align them with the representative bodies on this policy and are very grateful for companys long term investment horizon.
Half of the shares their constructive feedback.
We hope therefore that both the comprised in an award will be measured over three years by policy and the annual report will receive your support at the reference to the Gilts index and half over five years by reference annual general meeting in July.
This balance will be repeated for any awards made in the 2015 financial year, but thereafter one-third will be measured over three years and two-thirds over five years Charles Gregson by reference to the aforementioned indices.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 May 2014
