The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement The quarterly dividend will next be considered by the Board when the third interim is declared in April 2015.
Net Asset Value Total Return City of Londons total return was 14.7% which was 1.0% behind the size weighted average total for the AIC UK Equity Income sector but 1.6% ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index and 0.4% ahead of the average for the UK Equity Income OEIC sector.
We can best satisfy shareholders income objectives by investing principally in large companies because it is those companies which tend to pay the higher dividends and carry the greater yield: on The Chairman of the Company, Philip Remnant, reports on average, small and medium-sized stocks yield about 1% less than the year to 30 June 2014 City of Londons current yield.
Our relative performance during the year against some of our peers has suffered from the continuing outperformance of small and medium-sized companies: they beat I am pleased to report on another satisfactory year.
City of Londons net their FTSE 100 counterparts by 6.8% and 4.5% respectively.
There asset value total return was 14.7% for the year to 30 June 2014 and was evidence in the second half of the year, however, of better follows on from a return of 23.8% for the previous financial year.
relative strength of large companies and City of Londons returns Although this was behind the average for the AIC UK Equity Income benefitted accordingly.
sector, it was ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index and the average for the UK Equity Income OEIC sector.
The dividend was increased for the th 48 consecutive year, by 3.2%, and our ongoing charges fell slightly Expenses to0.43% which remains the lowest in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
Given that City of Londons net assets now exceed 1 billion, our expenses are spread over a broader capital base, reducing costs to individual shareholders and increasing the attractiveness of our The Markets offering.
The ongoing charge, which is the investment management There was a marked difference in equity market returns between the fee and other non-interest recurring expenses as a percentage of first and second halves of the financial year.
In the six months to equity shareholders funds, fell from 0.44% last year to 0.43% which 31December 2013, the UK equity market returned 11.3% as is extremely competitive compared with the OEIC market, with most measured by the FTSE All-Share Index while the return was only other investment trusts and with other actively managed funds.
The rise of sterling together with weakness in some overseas economies led to downgrades in Share Issues analysts profit expectations for many companies in the first half of 2014.
In addition, the strength of the UK economy, with the housing During the year under review, City of Londons shares have been in market buoyant, led investors to bring forward expectations of a rise strong demand and have continued to trade consistently at a in UK interest rates.
26.8 million shares were issued, at a premium to net asset value, for proceeds of 99.2 million and enhancing the net asset value by 0.19%.
In the past four years, City of London has issued Performance 76.2 million new shares increasing its share capital by 36.5%.
Earnings and Dividends Earnings per share rose by 0.4% with the 4.4 million increase in Borrowing and Gearing investment income largely offset by the 25.0 million increase in shares in issue weighted average.
In addition, special dividends On 21 January 2014 City of London issued 35 million of xed rate taken to income fell by 427,000 to 1,293,000 after an exceptional 15 year private placement notes the Notes at an annualised coupon year in 2013 when they more than doubled.
The Notes are repayable on 22 January 2029 and are secured by a first oating charge over the Companys assets, ranking pari passu with our existing debentures.
Our 6million 11% Our results were signicantly impacted by the strength of sterling as the UK economy recovered.
Over the year, the pound appreciated by Debenture Stock is due for repayment on 31December 2014.
Some 22% of the dividends which City of London receives from its holdings in UK companies such as HSBC An important factor in taking out this additional loan was to secure and BP are declared in dollars.
As a result, the dividends actually attractive long term xed funding at rates which are low by historical received from those companies did not fairly reect the underlying standards.
At a time when the Company continues to grow, both dividend growth at those companies whose profits too have suffered through investment performance and share issuance, the Notes when translated into sterling.
Despite this, City of London increased its provide City of London with a better balance between its short and own dividend by 3.2% over the previous year, ahead of the rate of long-term debt, and are expected to enhance long-term performance.
ination, and after accounting for the final dividend still added 729,000 to revenue reserves to underpin future dividends.
This is the At the year end, gearing was 7.1% 2013: 7.9% and over the year th 48 consecutive year of unbroken dividend growth, a record unrivalled contributed 0.66% to our outperformance against the FTSE by any other investment trust.
5 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued Benchmark City of Londons portfolio is predominantly invested in large international companies well placed to benefit from global growth.
Following the removal of the performance fee element of the Share prices tend to discount the future and an element of derating management fee arrangements with effect from 1 July 2013, the is occurring during 2014 after the strong rise in share prices during Board has considered whether it is still appropriate to use the 2013 and 2012, and ahead of a likely rise in interest rates.
Given low yardstick for calculating that performance fee, the AIC UK Equity UK ination and the weakness in wage increases, any upward move Income sector, as the Companys ofcial benchmark.
Virtually all in interest rates is likely to be gradual.
As a result, equities are set to ofour peers in that sector have as their benchmark the FTSE remain attractive on a dividend yield and growth basis relative to All-Share Index, and indeed City of London also uses this index xed interest and bank deposits.
It is an environment which should tomeasure its comparative performance.
play well to City of Londons strengths.
In practice, the Board measures the Companys performance against not only the AIC UK Equity Income sector and the FTSE All-Share Philip Remnant CBE Index but increasingly also, given the more level playing eld created Chairman by the Retail Distribution Review between investment trusts and open-ended products, against the broader UK Equity Income OEIC sector.
Shareholders will now see performance statistics presented on this basis too.
Given the several yardsticks of comparison and the difficulty of selecting any one as a more relevant single benchmark, the Board has decided to leave unchanged the Companys existing benchmark.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD I reported last year on our progress towards complying with the AIFMD, a new piece of EU legislation which captures City of London within its scope.
We are required to appoint an AIFM and a Depositary which is responsible for overseeing the Companys custody and cash management operations.
The Board has appointed its Manager, Henderson, as AIFM and HSBC as Depositary.
The Board has had to spend a significant amount of time on behalf of shareholders in considering the implications of the directive and in approving the resultant documentation and processes, to little discernible benefit to shareholders.
The new arrangements will add modestly to the Companys cost base.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the ofces of Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE on Monday, 27October 2014 at 2.30pm.
All shareholders are most welcome to attend.
As usual, Job Curtis, our Fund Manager, will be making a presentation.
Outlook Economic growth has become established in the UK and US, and the debate has moved on as to when interest rates will be increased from the emergency level introduced during the financial crisis.
In Europe, hopes of an improvement in growth are battling against the deationary forces resulting from the continuing weakness of many European banks.
Emerging markets continue to hold much long term potential despite current difficulties in some countries.
