Chairmans statement Delivering on our targets The Board is focused on providing robust oversight of Direct Line Group, including a substantial programme of investment in improving our customers experience, and aiming to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Mike Biggs Chairman In this report, I would like to consider Direct Line Insurance on 22 September 2014.
The increase in the Companys Group plcs the Company achievements from before the market capitalisation positively reflects investor confidence in initial public offering IPO in October 2012 to where we our business.
An increase of 16.7% in the share price to are today, including our successful separation from the Royal 291.3 pence across the year to 31 December 2014 together Bank of Scotland Group RBS Group in early 2014. with dividend payments provided a total shareholder return TSR of 28.7% for the year.
Before the IPO, the Board set robust and stretching financial and business targets for the Group.
We have met, and in Strategy update some cases, exceeded these targets.
This includes delivering We plan to enhance the way we interact with our customers 1 a return on tangible equity of 15%.
In both 2014 and 2013, and the ease with which their claims are handled.
Your Board we achieved returns above this level, of 16.8% and 16.0% has overseen and challenged these investment programmes respectively.
Your Board set an initial gross cost savings target with the aim that the business delivers appropriately for our of 100 million for 2014.
We subsequently increased the customers evolving requirements and on a financially 2 ambition to deliver a total cost base of approximately 1,000 acceptable basis for our shareholders.
million, which I am pleased to say management achieved in Early in the year we carried out a strategic review of our 2014.
Our Commercial division was tasked with delivering a International division.
We concluded that a disposal would be combined operating ratio of less than 100%: it has successfully likely to generate the most value to the Group.
On 25 September met this challenge.
2014, we announced a binding agreement with Mapfre, S. A.
Throughout this period we stated that the Group would target 3 for the sale of this division for 550 million 430.1 million.
holding capital in the range of 125% and 150% of risk-based Completion of the sale is conditional on receiving one capital sufficient to maintain a credit rating in the A range.
It outstanding regulatory approval and is currently expected to has consistently remained at the upper end of this range.
complete in the first quarter or failing which in the second quarter.
Since the IPO, we have declared cumulative dividends, Your Board believes this is a good result for all our stakeholders, including special interim dividends, of 55.8 pence per including providing excellent value for shareholders.
This is equivalent to 31.9% of the IPO price.
We have also taken the opportunity during 2014 to review and These achievements contributed to a strong share price rearticulate our strategy.
This strategy has at its heart our mission performance and supported another milestone of 2014 to make insurance much easier and better value for customers.
with the admission of the Company into the FTSE 100 Notes: 1.
See note 2 on page 5 10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report return of capital and share consolidation will be communicated Our governance principles to shareholders in due course.
Culture Leadership Your Board is committed to embedding a values-driven culture Your Board challenges strategic proposals, performance across the Group.
Our values are Do the right thing, Aim higher, delivery and the responsibilities of management, seeking Work together, Take ownership, Say it like it is and Bring all to ensure that decisions are of the highest standard.
As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, Read more on page 55 the Board also requires all employees to adhere to the highest possible standards of professional and ethical conduct.
You can Effectiveness read more about our values and code on page 50.
Your Boards performance is reviewed annually in an Our relationship with RBS Group effectiveness review.
This considers our effectiveness, On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold substantially all of its individually, as a Board and in our Committees.
2 remaining shareholding in the Company.
Following this, and Read more on page 57 in line with the Relationship Agreement between the Company and RBS Group, Mark Catton, RBS Groups nominated Director, Accountability stepped down from the Board on 7 March 2014.
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment of Under a Transitional Services Agreement, RBS Group continues the Groups position and prospects.
It has overall oversight to provide certain services to Direct Line Group, including IT of the Groups risk management and internal system infrastructure.
During the year, we progressed substantially in rolling of control.
out our new data centres with Capgemini and deploying new voice and desktop tools.
These are key milestones to migrate our Read more on page 28 and 59 IT infrastructure from RBS Group systems to our own environment.
Remuneration Board changes and effectiveness Your Board, through the Remuneration Committee, is There have been several changes to the composition of the responsible for the remuneration arrangements of the Board and Committees during the year.
As noted above, Mark Executive Directors and senior executives.
Catton stepped down on 7 March 2014 and I would like to thank him for his excellent contribution to the Board and wish him well Read more on page 71 for the future.
Engagement Following a review of the Boards balance of skills, knowledge Maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders is and experience, Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive of important to support our aims.
The Board maintains regular Dixons Carphone plc, joined the Board on 28 August 2014 dialogue with our shareholders.
I am delighted to welcome Sebastian.
The Board will benefit from his knowledge of customer service Read more on page 60 in a digital retail market.
On 30 September 2014, Sebastian was appointed as a Dividend and capital management member of the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Your Board regularly reviews the level of capital held by the Social Responsibility CSR Committee.
Jane Hanson retired as Group.
Ahead of Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016, Chair of the CSR Committee but will continue as a member.
Clare we currently believe that it is appropriate to maintain this at the Thompson was appointed as Chair of the CSR Committee and upper end of the targeted risk-based capital-coverage range of retired as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Groups Solvency II planning is on track.
go to Jane for her role as Chair of the CSR Committee and particularly for overseeing the establishment of our CSR agenda.
The Board has resolved to pay an interim dividend of 8.8 pence You can read more about our Committees from page 61. per share in lieu of a final dividend.
This represents an increase 1 of 4.8% on the full-year regular dividend for 2013.
Summary We are fortunate to have hardworking and talented employees.
The Company paid a special interim dividend of 10.0 Their commitment to customers and pride in what they do never pence per share on 12 September 2014 and on 2 March ceases to impress me.
I thank every one of them for their 2015 resolved to pay a further special dividend of 4.0 pence contributions last year and into the next.
These dividends reflect the build up of surplus capital which the Board believes is appropriate to return to shareholders.
On the completion of the sale of the International division, your Board currently expects to announce an additional return of capital, reflecting substantially all the net proceeds of the sale.
This return of capital will be conditional on shareholders approving a share consolidation designed to neutralise the effect Michael N Biggs on the share price of the return of capital.
Further details of the Chairman Notes: 1.
The regular dividend includes the interim and final dividends, it excludes special interim dividends.
RBS Group retained a number of Ordinary Shares in the Company to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards granted by it to Direct Line Group management.
