Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Booker Group plc has delivered another good performance I am pleased to report that Booker Much of the year has been spent Outlook Group plc has delivered another good bringing Makro into the Group.
This is on The Groups trading in the first seven performance.
We are delighted to have the team weeks of the current financial year is March 2014 sales rose by 17% to 4.7bn from Makro join Booker Group.
We anticipate that and operating profit of 120.4m was up the challenging consumer and market I should like to thank all our colleagues 23%.
Customer satisfaction continued environment will persist through the for their contribution to the success of to improve and we had our best coming year and the UKs food market the Group in the year just ended.
The financial remains very competitive.
performance was good and the Group Basic earnings per share were 6.06 ended the financial year with net cash Whilst there is increasing price pence, up from 4.51 pence last of 149.6m.
The drive into the catering competition in the UK grocery and year.
Given the strong operational market is working, with Booker like-fordiscount sectors, we will continue to performance and cash flow of the like sales to caterers excluding Makro deliver our plans to offer our customers business the Board recommends the up by 7.1%.
Booker like-for-like sales to even better choice, prices and service payment of a final dividend of 2.75 retailers excluding Makro fell by 0.5%, supported by the continued delivery of the pence per share 2013: 2.25 pence per due to a contraction in the UK duty paid Makro synergy plans and our efficiency share which, together with the interim tobacco market.
Makro is now making a programmes.
We are on track to deliver dividend, makes a total dividend for the real contribution to the Group.
an outcome for the new financial year in year of 3.20 pence per share 2013: 2.63 line with our plans and to make progress pence per share.
The final dividend is The plans to Broaden the business in this challenging environment.
payable on 11 July 2014 to shareholders are going well.
In the 52 weeks to 28 on the register on 13 June 2014.
March 2014 Booker distributed 1.3bn Annual General Meeting of product to our customers premises Our Annual General Meeting will be held In addition to the final dividend, the versus 1.15bn last year as we continue on 9 July 2014.
The notice of Annual Board is recommending a special to expand our delivered service.
Booker General Meeting and a circular setting capital return to shareholders of 3.50 Direct, Chef Direct, Classic and Ritter out further details of the proposed pence per ordinary share at a cost of Courivaud, our specialist delivered return of capital which itself, requires approximately 61m, based on the businesses, had a good year.
Internet shareholder approval, will be issued to current issued share capital of the sales were 777m compared to 704m shareholders in due course.
We currently anticipate in the previous year and sales at Booker making a similar return to shareholders India are making good progress.
in July 2015 and will provide an update on this at the 2015 Final Results Richard Rose announcement in May 2015, in light of Chairman circumstances prevailing at that time.
