16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 29 05 2014 14:19 Page 04 04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder As a Board we considered a variety of options for the future management of the Companys assets, Equity markets, and UK one of which was a set of proposals from Invesco equity markets in Perpetual.
Having considered the appropriateness particular, continued of Invesco Perpetuals investment style and their recovery over the strategy to our objective and the strength of its twelve months to investment resources, we decided that Invesco 31 March 2014.
The net Perpetual should continue as Manager with Mark asset value NAV has Barnett taking responsibility for the management once again benefited of your Companys portfolio with effect from from the value-driven Jim Pettigrew 28 January 2014. and long-term investment strategy of the Manager which, At the same time, we conducted a review of the combined with the use of gearing, has delivered Companys management fees in light of the out-performance against the benchmark for the changing market conditions with a view to year to 31 March 2014.
The performance and achieving a simple, transparent and competitive conditions on both the economic and market structure, something which I am sure you will fronts are elaborated on below and in the welcome.
We also spoke with a number of the Portfolio Managers Report.
Companys largest shareholders to understand their views and expectations.
I also report below on the new portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, and amendments to the As a result of this review, the Board agreed with investment management agreement.
Invesco Perpetual amendments to the Companys investment management agreement including The income generation of the portfolio remains changes to the management fees which from good and the Board is proposing a final dividend 1 April 2014 will comprise a flat rate fee of of 8.5 pence per share for the year which would 0.55% previously 0.6% per annum of market result in a full year dividend of 23.5 pence per capitalisation with no performance fee.
Mindful share, an increase of 3.1% year-on-year.
of the potential costs of repositioning the portfolio, a reduction of up to 7.5 million of the The Manager and Changes to the amount of any performance fee for the year Investment Management Agreement ended 31 March 2014 was also agreed.
As reported to Shareholders at the half-yearly stage and in two subsequent letters, the Board was informed by the Manager in October 2013 that Neil Woodford, the Companys portfolio manager, would be leaving Invesco Perpetual in April 2014.
Total Returns Since Appointment of Invesco Perpetual on 15 September 2008 Figures rebased to 100 at 15 September 2008.
225 Share Price Total Return Net Asset Value Total Return 200 FTSE All-Share Index Total Return 175 150 125 100 75 50 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 29 05 2014 14:19 Page 05 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 When I wrote to you in October, I assured you 2014 Highlights that the Board had your interests uppermost in its considerations as we determined the future 1 management of the Company.
With Mark Total return Barnetts expertise, continuity of management Net asset value debt at par 12.5% with Invesco Perpetual and a reduction in FTSE All-Share Index 8.8% management costs, we believe these new management arrangements are an excellent Share price 8.0% outcome for the Company and for you the Dividend 3.1% shareholders.
UK Equity Market The UK equity market as measured by the FTSE Performance for the Year All Share Index delivered a total return of 8.8% The Company produced a net asset value NAV in the year to 31 March but the graph was far total return for the year of 12.5% debt at par from being a straight line as the market reacted and 14.4 % debt at market value, which to both positives, and negatives.
The positives compares with a total return of 8.8% for the included persistent increases in forecasts for UK FTSE All-Share Index the Index, the Companys economic growth, rising consumer confidence, benchmark.
The share price total return share and a buoyant housing market.
Negatives price with dividends reinvested for the year was comprised the strengthening UK currency, 8.0%.
The portfolio continues to be earnings downgrades in the international concentrated in a relatively small number of sector, and the news that the pace of sectors and its overweight or underweight quantitative easing in the USA would slow.
UK positions in various sectors are material drivers of equities continued to outperform UK gilts and the Companys relative investment performance.
the final quarter of the financial year saw The Companys share price ended the year at increased M&A activity and subsequent to the 594.0p, an increase of 3.8% from the previous year end the emergence of what could become year end of 572.0p.
During the year the discount the largest ever takeover of a UK company.
of the shares to NAV with debt at par moved Off-setting the boost from increased M&A from 1.7% to a small premium mid-year then activity has been rising tension in the Ukraine, returned to a discount, ending the year at 5.4%.
the economic slowdown in China, and problems With debt at market value, the 2.3% premium at in previously strong performers such as Brazil and the start of the year rose to a maximum of 6.6% Turkey.
and subsequently dropped back to a discount of A more detailed discussion on the UK equity 3.1% at the year end.
The volatility of the market and the Companys portfolio is contained discount premium to share price reflect to in the Portfolio Managers Report.
some extent the reaction in the market to the news that Neil Woodford would leave Invesco Investment Strategy Perpetual, as discussed earlier.
At 23 May 2014, With the continuing prospect of low economic the latest practical date to signing this report, the growth in the Western world, a defensive NAV was 639.26p debt at par and 623.62p portfolio remains in place, as has been the case debt at market value, the share price was for the last five years.
The Board supports the 600.00p and the resultant discount was 6.1% Managers strategy, which is to be increasingly debt at par and 3.8% debt at market value.
vigilant with regard to company earnings forecasts and to continue focusing on owning Performance Fee companies that are sensibly valued and able to A performance fee is payable in respect of each deliver sustainable and reliable earnings growth three year rolling period in which the Company over the longer term, regardless of economic outperforms its benchmark index plus a hurdle of headwinds or unexpected changes in commodity 1.25% pa.
This fee was capped at 1% of the prices.
This bottom up stock selection strategy period end net assets, before deduction of any continues to result in concentrated positions in performance fee.
the Pharmaceuticals, Tobacco and Utilities sectors and in largely avoiding the Mining and Banking As a result of the Companys very strong sectors.
With the repositioning of the portfolio performance over three years producing a total complete, we now have fewer very large return of 56.9% against the Index total return individual positions representing over 5% of the of 28.8%, a capped performance fee of portfolio.
Marks new additions to the portfolio 12.3 million arose which, after the 7.5 million include BP, Shaftesbury, KCOM, NewRiver Retail reduction referred to previously, resulted in a fee and Thomas Cook.
As noted above, no performance fee will be payable from this year onwards.
16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 29 05 2014 14:19 Page 06 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT was special dividends which by their nature Gearing are non-recurring 2013: 0.46 million: 0.24p.
The Company continues to benefit from debt The Board is alert to the income requirement amounting to 200 million in the form of two of the Company, and during the year reviews the debentures, which the Manager deploys for situation on a regular basis with the portfolio investment purposes.
As a result of appreciation manager.
in assets, the gross gearing level had fallen to 16.3% NAV with debt at par at the year end, a The Board is recommending a final dividend of decrease from 17.6% at the previous year end.
8.5 pence per share which, if approved at the Mark has a proactive approach to the use of AGM, will be paid on 31 July 2014 to gearing, and this is shown at the year end with Shareholders on the Companys register on the balance sheet cash position of 7 million and 13 June 2014.
Shares will be quoted ex-dividend net gearing of 15.7%.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 23.5p, an increase of 3.1% on As reported in my half-yearly Chairmans last years total dividend of 22.8p.
This is higher 1 Statement, the 100 million 11 2% debenture than the annual increase in the Retail Price Index matures in June 2014.
The Board has undertaken of 2.5% and demonstrates the Companys an extensive exercise to review whether new commitment to its long term objective of borrowings should be put in place, and if so providing income growth which exceeds the rate the type including duration and cost.
result the Board has agreed in principle a new 364 day 100 million revolving credit facility with Retail Distribution Review RDR Bank of New York Mellon.
The mix of fixed and More than a year after RDR came into effect floating debt provides diversity of funding 31 December 2012, changes to the manner in sources and flexibility.
The new facility will be which independent financial advisers IFAs are available for the debentures redemption date of paid for their services have yet to have much 30 June 2014, and will represent a material impact on the way that investment funds are saving in interest costs for the Company.
selected for recommendation to their clients.
Systems difficulties experienced by the three Changes to the Investment Objective major IFA-only execution platforms CoFunds, and Investment Policy Fidelity Funds Network and Skandia are cited There has been no change in the level of as the principal reason but this has not stopped borrowings permitted by the investment policy investors from seeking out the attractions of for a number of years, which limits borrowing to investment trusts directly.
As mentioned in last 200 million.
At the year end this was equivalent years report, your Board and Manager were to 16.3% of net assets NAV with debt at par.
In confident that the attractions of The Edinburgh order to make the borrowing limit reflect the Investment Trust strong performance, quarterly assets of the Company, it is proposed to change dividends, good levels of liquidity, a clear strategy this limit from an absolute amount to a relative and a well-known brand would be compelling 25% of net assets.
I can assure shareholders that to such investors and so it has proved with it is not the current intention of the Manager to unadvised investors being the largest shareholder increase gearing to 25%, but to provide more growth category in 2013. flexibility.
As dealing systems improve, it is expected that In addition, although we are not changing the more IFAs will embrace investment trusts, using substance of the investment objective and the many research capabilities that exist to make investment policy as shown on page 8, we have the best choice for clients.
Your Company taken the opportunity to make clearer some of remains well positioned to benefit from any the language used within it.
increase in demand that results.
These changes are subject to the approval of Referendum on Scottish Independence shareholders.
Accordingly, the Board recommend This is a serious question for any company, like that shareholders vote for Ordinary Resolution 13 ours, which is registered in Scotland.
It introduces at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
an element of political uncertainty with Dividend associated practical economic and regulatory implications.
The Board will continue to keep the Income from the portfolio during the year was situation under review and to look to act in 55.4 million 2013: 52.9 million.
Of this shareholders best interests.
3.75 million, which is equal to 1.92p per share, 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 16310 Edinburgh pp01 07 29 05 2014 14:19 Page 07 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 Outlook 125th Annual General Meeting AGM Your Board and Manager remain vigilant in light The Notice of the AGM of the Company, which is of a mixed global macro-economic outlook and to be held on Friday, 18 July 2014, is on pages also as a result of higher share prices and higher 59 to 62 and a summary of the resolutions is set valuations across the UK equity market.
Taking out in the Directors Report on pages 31 and 32. this into account, we look to the current financial My fellow directors and I will be voting in favour year with guarded optimism whilst not of all the resolutions and I urge all shareholders anticipating a repeat of the returns enjoyed last to register their vote by returning their completed year.
That said, the Companys strategy remains voting papers or voting on-line.
to continue to identify pockets of value.
The I hope that as many shareholders as possible recent bid approach by Pfizer for AstraZeneca, a will attend the AGM in person and take part in long term core holding for your Company, th celebrating the 125 AGM of the Company.
suggests that certain companies continue to be Shareholders will have the opportunity to hear undervalued by the market and that, as is often from Mark Barnett about the portfolio and his the case in investing, patience can be rewarded.
views on the outlook, and meet myself and my In conclusion, I believe that in the present market fellow directors.
environment the Companys current investment approach should provide resilience in periods of market weakness, whilst still providing the Jim Pettigrew opportunity for creating growth in shareholder Chairman value over the longer term.
