Chairmans Statement Electra has had an excellent year, with another record level of new investment and strong performance from its investment portfolio.
The performance from some of the recent investments in the portfolio is extremely encouraging and perfectly demonstrates the investment selection and value creation skills of Electra Partners.
The 15% NAV per share total return over the year was again at the upper end of Electras long-term target range of between 10% and 15% per year.
Electra is well positioned to continue to deliver outstanding returns for its shareholders.
Overview The year to September 2014 has been a successful one and I am pleased to report another year of strong performance achieved in the face of considerable distraction.
Excellent progress has been made in terms of investment activity, with capital deployed in new investments again reaching a record level.
The portfolio continues to perform strongly with, in particular, a significant contribution from investments made in the last three years.
The encouraging trading within the underlying portfolio companies augurs well for the future.
Results At 30 September 2014, Electras diluted net asset value per share was 3,174p compared to 2,764p a year earlier, an increase of 15%.
Electras share price increased from 2,230p to 2,650p over this period representing a return of 19%, compared to a total return on the FTSE All-Share of 6%.
Over the 10 years to 30 September 2014, Electras diluted net asset value per share including dividends has increased by 262%.
This is equivalent to a 10-year annualised return on equity of 14%.
Electras share price also performed well in this period generating a total return of 248%, also equivalent to an annualised total return of 14%.
This compares to a 10-year total return for the FTSE All-Share of 120%, equivalent to an annualised return of 8%.
Three quarters of the performance in the year came from the direct unlisted portfolio, in particular from three investments AXIO, Park Resorts and South Lakeland.
All three are recent investments, made within the last three years.
It is also pleasing to see strong performance in the listed portfolio, especially from Zensar Technologies which increased by 40 million or 163% over the year.
Investment Activity Over the year Electra invested 410 million, compared to 337 million in 2013.
In aggregate 747 million has been invested over the last two years representing 86% of the opening value of the investment portfolio at the beginning of that period.
Sherborne Investors During the early part of 2014 Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited SIGB began acquiring shares in Electra, eventually reaching a position whereby it controlled approximately 20% of the ordinary share capital.
On 21 August 2014, SIGB requisitioned a General Meeting to appoint two nominees to the Board and to remove an existing Director, Geoffrey Cullinan.
SIGB announced that it expected its two nominees, if appointed, to lead a strategic review of Electra.
Despite requests for an explanation of the need for, or benefits of, a strategic review, SIGB did not provide one.
On 17 September 2014, SIGB sent a letter to Electra shareholders making, for the first time, a number of critical points concerning performance, investment management, investment expenses and balance sheet structure.
Electra published its 4 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 response to these criticisms on 22 September 2014.
At the General Meeting of the Company held on 6 October 2014 shareholders voted against all the resolutions proposed by SIGB.
The Board of Electra has always been open to constructive dialogue with its shareholders and seeks always to act in shareholders best interests.
Accordingly, we believe it is paramount that Electra should continue to have an independent Board comprised of individuals with the appropriate mixture of skills and experience so that Electras future strategy and direction will continue to serve the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Following the General Meeting and as a result of discussions with shareholders, the Board is conducting a review of Electras fee arrangements with Electra Partners and of its capital structure and distribution policy.
We intend to announce the result of this review shortly.
Balance Sheet Over the year Electra At 30 September 2014 Electra had net liquid resources of 166 million compared to invested 410 million, 294 million at September 2013.
Twelve months ago liquidity levels were higher than compared to 337 million usual as a result of the record level of realisations during the year.
In aggregate optimal operating level, where there is sufficient cash together with bank facilities to 747 million has been cover new investments and meet ongoing costs and commitments.
invested over the last two years Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The AIFMD came into effect during the period under review and Electra, as an Alternative Investment Fund, became subject to the Directive from 11 July 2014.
As previously reported, Electra Partners LLP received approval from the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to vary its status and act as Electras Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the AIFMD regulations.
The Board continues to be of the view that compliance with the AIFMD regulations will not materially affect Electras business.
Outlook This is another strong set of results and it is particularly encouraging that the recent investments in the portfolio are already delivering substantial value.
These investments were made by exploiting Electras flexible investment strategy and robust balance sheet.
Their performance follows several years of high investment activity and excellent value creation work by the Electra Partners team.
Electras balance sheet is now more efficiently deployed as a result of the high levels of investment over the last two years.
The Board believes that Electra is well positioned to build on and strengthen its high quality portfolio and continue to deliver outstanding returns for Electras shareholders.
Roger Yates Chairman 26 November 2014 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 5 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Console Group Audio mixing console manufacturer 6 6 Elec Electra P tra Pr rivat ivate E e Equit quity PL y PLC | R C | Repor eport and A t and Accounts 201 ccounts 2014 4
