Gross written premiums reduced in 2014 to 517.8 million, as the Group A disciplined approach in a remained disciplined in its rating actions during the industrys transition through the soft part of the motor rating cycle.
challenging environment The Group has a strong financial position with robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and capital significantly in excess of the minimum regulatory requirement.
In December Introduction to position the Business for further 2014, the Group issued 125.0 million Welcome to the esure Group plc 2014 growth, when market conditions permit, 6.75% ten year tier two Subordinated Annual Report, as we look back on with the aim of delivering long term Notes the Notes to fund the another year of discipline for the Group, stakeholder value.
acquisition of the outstanding 50% in challenging market conditions.
In December, the Group announced that The UK personal lines insurance markets it is to acquire the outstanding 50% of In light of this performance and position, remained competitive in 2014, with rate Gocompare, for 95.0 million, valuing the Board has proposed a final dividend reductions characterising both the motor Gocompare at 190.0 million.
of 11.7 pence per share, which together and home markets.
Some signs of rating Gocompare.
com is one of the UKs with the interim dividend of 5.1 pence stabilisation did start to appear in the leading financial services brands and a per share, takes the full year dividend motor market in the latter part of the leading price comparison website in the to 16.8 pence per share.
The full year year, but claims inflation returned during UK.
Personally, I am excited about the dividend of 16.8 pence per share the second half of the year, with market opportunities available to the Group represents a payout ratio of 85% of post data showing an increase in the through full ownership of Gocompare as tax profits.
The payout ratio comprises frequency of small bodily injury claims.
we begin to drive its strategic direction.
a base dividend of 50% and a special dividend of 35%, demonstrating the The industry has been through many Performance Groups commitment to returning excess rating cycles in the past, as indeed have I.
The Groups approach to underwriting capital to shareholders.
The Board and management team and focus on expenses enabled us to continue to make the right decisions deliver a solid set of financial results in Market We now have multiple third party pricing indices which track market pricing for 16.8p motor and home insurance.
In 2014, all the indices reported year-on-year rate Full year dividend per share reductions in both the motor and home markets.
Signs of motor rate stabilisation were noted in the third quarter and these were followed by modest rate increases across the market in the fourth quarter of 2014.
There were market movements in January, although perhaps not as significant as those in some years previously.
We will watch with interest to see if the market is prepared to increase its rates as we move through 2015.
People The Group has benefited from the Boards impressive breadth and depth as we continue to push forward with our strategic objectives.
On 3 December 2014, Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Hobson announced that they will be stepping down from their respective positions on the Board at the completion of the Annual General Meeting in May 2015.
Both Dame Helen Alexander and esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11 Anthony Hobson have been exceptionally Finance Officer, and further strengthened The Board from left to right valuable members of the Board pre, by the addition of David Pitt, Chief during and post the Groups IPO.
This team continue Anne Richards with the rest of the Board, would like to to be supported by a highly skilled and Non-Executive Director offer our sincerest thanks and best dedicated workforce throughout the Stuart Vann wishes to them both for the future.
Group, for which the Board and I Chief Executive Officer are grateful.
Anthony Hobson will leave the Board Mike Evans after 12 years, having been with the Customers Non-Executive Director Group through many of its significant Finally, our customers are the lifeblood milestones.
Anthony Hobsons role as of our Business and I would like to thank Dame Helen Alexander Chairman of the Investment Committee them for their continued support.
We will Deputy Chairman and Senior has passed to Anne Richards, who continue to listen to their feedback and Independent Director assumed the role with effect from 1 enhance our propositions to meet their Shirley Garrood January 2015. ever-changing needs.
Non-Executive Director Dame Helen Alexander has been with the Summary Darren Ogden Group for three years as Deputy Chairman During 2014, market expectations Chief Finance Officer and Senior Independent Director.
On 1 of inevitable rate increases in motor January, the role of Chairman of the insurance grew but, as we suspected, Mara Dolores Dancausa Remuneration Committee passed from rates did not move tangibly.
We Non-Executive Director Dame Helen Alexander to Mike Evans.
continue to focus on the opportunities Nick Edwards On completion of the Annual General for growth that will arise when General Counsel & Company Secretary Meeting, Dame Helen Alexanders role conditions improve.
In competitive of Senior Independent Director will pass conditions, we remain very well placed.
Peter Wood to Shirley Garrood.
Again, it is our people and customers Chairman who make esure Group what it is today There have also been two further Peter Ward and to all of them, I am thankful.
personnel changes to two of the Groups Non-Executive Director Committees.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter Ward for his Anthony Hobson time as Audit Committee Chairman, and Non-Executive Director I am pleased that Shirley Garrood has Non-Board member taken over the role of Audit Committee Peter Wood Chairman, with Peter Ward remaining on Chairman the Committee.
Mara Dolores Dancausa has also joined the Nomination Committee.
The Groups executive management team has been led by Stuart Vann, Chief Executive Officer, Darren Ogden, Chief See page 38 for the Board esure Group Annual Report 2014
