Chairmans statement number of consented sites, combined with ongoing constraints for smaller housebuilders to access funding.
Improving performance During 2014, the Group has made significant improvements in returns, both profit margins and capital turn contributed positively.
In a year of record legal completions, the targeted return on capital employed has been achieved with a 53% improvement year on year to 16.2%.
While delivering these excellent results in 2014, the Group is in a strong position for 2015, continuing to be well capitalised with a strong balance sheet.
In line with our strategy, the record year of land investment in 2014 and the pipeline of land for acquisition Ian Tyler in 2015 will lead to growth in business capacity during 2015 and Chairman 2016.
The Board has confidence that, assuming a stable market, this will deliver further strong growth in capital turn, profitability, Having completed my first full year as and ultimately shareholder returns.
Chairman, I have been pleased with the Groups excellent progress during 2014.
Updated strategic plan While the market moderated during 2014 During 2014, the Group laid out a clear and robust strategic to a more sustainable level, the Group has plan.
The Board recognises the fact that the housing market is delivered a strong result with an increase in cyclical in nature and that our strategic plan needs, therefore, earnings per share of 75% and achieved our to deliver strong returns across the cycle.
We continue to view targeted return on capital employed.
this as being an early point in the housing cycle and believe that this is an excellent time to invest positively in a disciplined manner to grow towards our optimal scale.
Our business model The ambitious strategic plan laid out during 2014 provides real is clear with a well defined geographic and product focus.
Above clarity as to the future direction of the Group.
Delivery of this all, we recognise that our success depends on delivering high plan is on track and I see considerable opportunity for the Group quality homes to our customers, built in a safe way by motivated going forward.
A robust market Dividends While the UK economic backdrop has remained relatively robust In light of the Groups strong performance in 2014 and our throughout 2014, the housing market has evolved during the confidence in the progress in delivering the strategic plan, as year, with strong demand and pricing in the first half of the year, previously indicated, a final dividend of 23.0 pence per share followed by more moderate activity in the second half.
will be recommended, which, when combined with the interim Demand has been impacted by the mortgage market in the dividend, totals 35.0 pence for the year, an increase of 159% on year.
Whilst mortgage rates are increasingly competitive and are the 2013 dividend.
The final dividend will be payable on 22 May approaching historic lows, mortgage underwriting standards 2015 to shareholders on the register on 27 March 2015. have become more disciplined following the Mortgage Market The Board is also maintaining its guidance for 2015 with the Review, leading in turn to a modest reduction in mortgage intention to recommend a dividend of at least 35 pence per approvals.
However, we continue to believe that a disciplined share.
Thereafter, in this phase of the cycle the Board plans to mortgage market is a prerequisite for a healthy housing market operate a regular payout ratio of one third of earnings with in the long term.
supplementary dividend payments to shareholders of cash The key challenge for the industry during 2014 was the surplus to requirements as we move towards optimal scale.
availability and cost of subcontract labour.
The increase in activity People in the new homes market, combined with the exit of skills in certain trades over recent years has led to resource shortages As a Board, we have continued to be impressed with the and resulted in cost increases for key trades, although this commitment and skill shown by the Groups employees in pressure seems to be abating.
delivering the growth during 2014 and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them all for their dedication and hard work.
The land market remains positive, with participants I would also like to extend its thanks to our subcontractors and demonstrating discipline and planning providing an increasing suppliers who are such a key component of our business.
4 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Business overview | Strategic report Business overview The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2014 with improved profitability and is well positioned for further growth The Board I would also thank Jonathan Hill, who is leaving the Group in March, Having joined the Board in November 2013 I would like to thank for his huge contribution to the Group during his time as Group my colleagues for their support and positive challenge during this Finance Director.
I would like to welcome Chris Browne, who joined the Board in September 2014 and also thank John Warren, who will retire While it has been a time of change, the Board is confident that the from the Board at the AGM, for his service to Bovis Homes both as Group is well positioned to deliver growth and value to shareholders a non executive director and as Audit Committee Chairman.
He will as we implement our strategic plan.
be replaced by Ralph Findlay, currently Chief Executive Officer of Marstons PLC, who will join the Board on 7 April 2015 and will Ian Tyler chair the Audit Committee from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC | 5
