STRATEGY Chairmans Statement Mr Bolton since the latter part of 2013 to ensure an orderly and smooth handover and is now responsible for the Companys portfolio.
The Directors are confident that Mr Nicholls will position the portfolio to take best advantage of Chinas continuing growth.
Mr Nicholls will attend the Annual General Meeting on 18 July as will Mr Bolton.
John Owen Chairman I am most grateful to Mr Bolton for the hard work and commitment he has shown to the Company over the last four I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity China years.
During that time he has travelled extensively in mainland Special Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2014.
China and visited over 1,400 companies.
While market circumstances may have been more dicult than originally PERFORMANCE REVIEW envisaged, he has nonetheless, outperformed the Benchmark During the year under review, the Net Asset Value NAV of the Index handsomely.
On behalf of the Board, and the Company increased by 19.5%, outperforming the MSCI China shareholders, I wish him well in his retirement.
The Companys share price increased by 14.1% all gures on a total return basis.
GEARING The Company entered into a revolving credit facility agreement Whilst the appreciation in the Net Asset Value of the Company is with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000 on 17 February encouraging, the share price remains at or around the launch 2012.
This was renewed on 14 February 2014 to continue for a price of 1.00, which is disappointing.
This is as a result of poor further three years and has been fully drawn down.
investor sentiment toward emerging markets, particularly China, and the fact that many UK investors are turning their attention To achieve further gearing, the Company continues to use back to western economies, especially in the US and UK, where Contracts For Dierence on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
there are more positive signs of growth than previously.
Further details are in Note 19 on page 62.
There are signs that the Chinese economy is entering a new At 31 March 2014, the Companys gearing, dened as the Gross development phase as the government looks to move away Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets, was 22.9% 2013: 22.1%.
from an economic model driven by state-directed investment spending towards one more reliant on the increasingly wealthy DIVIDEND Chinese consumer.
Reforms announced by the government The Board recommends a dividend of 1.15 pence 2013: 1.00 in last Novembers Third Plenary highlighted the desire by the pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2014 for government to achieve this and has also brought about some approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General interesting investment opportunities.
This is explained in more Meeting.
detail in the Portfolio Managers Review.
Overall an improving regulatory environment for many industries, a more level playing The dividend will be payable on 25 July 2014 to shareholders eld for private companies, reforms removing government on the register on 11 July 2014 ex-dividend date 9 July 2014. interference in determining prices for state-owned enterprises SOEs and signs that the government is looking to encourage Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase private capital into SOEs could provide fertile ground for more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend investments, which the portfolio is well positioned to capitalise Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 71. on.
DISCOUNT AND PREMIUM The slowing growth of the Chinese economy has to be expected The Board believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders given its unprecedented expansion during the last 15 years but if the share price of the Company tracks closely to the underlying the drivers of the investment case in China remain as pertinent NAV, which is published each business day.
The Board has the now as they were in April 2010 when the Company was launched.
ability to issue shares at a premium to NAV and to buy back The Board continues to believe that the Company oers an shares at a discount to NAV where it is in the best interests of eective way for long-term UK investors to access ongoing shareholders to do so.
During the reporting year, in furtherance growth in the Chinese economy.
of this policy, the Board authorised the repurchase and cancellation at a discount of 81,875,000 Ordinary Shares.
THE PORTFOLIO MANAGER The Company has not repurchased any further Ordinary Shares In last years Annual Report I wrote that Anthony Bolton was for cancellation since the year end.
The Board is seeking stepping down as Portfolio Manager of the Company on shareholder consent at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting 31 March 2014 and Dale Nicholls would succeed him from 1 April to continue exercising these powers.
Mr Nicholls has an excellent track record and has been investing in China successfully for ten years.
He has worked with Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 3 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement TREASURY SHARES An additional requirement of the AIFMD is to appoint a The Board has decided to seek shareholder approval to hold in depositary on behalf of the Company to oversee the custody and Treasury any Ordinary Shares repurchased by the Company, cash arrangements of the Company.
To this end the Board have rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury shares would carry no agreed in principle to appoint J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act voting rights or rights to receive a dividend and would have no as the Companys depositary.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is part entitlement in a winding up of the Company.
No more than 10% of the same group of companies as JPMorgan Chase Bank who of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company would be act as the Companys current bankers and custodians and will held in Treasury.
Any shares held in Treasury would only be continue to do so.
re-issued at NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
This would ensure that the net eect of repurchasing and then THE BOARD re-issuing the Ordinary Shares would enhance NAV per share.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for The Board is seeking Shareholder approval to implement these Directors of FTSE 350 companies, the entire Board is subject to recommendations at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
annual re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors biographies can be found on page 21.
The MANAGEMENT FEE Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills and With eect from 1 April 2014, the annual management fee experience to form a balanced Board for the Company.
payable to the Managers is to reduce further to 1.0% per annum of the Net Asset Value 2013: reduced from 1.5% to 1.2%.
As a THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 18 JULY 2014 consequence, ongoing charges from 1 April 2014 are expected The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at to be in the region of 1.25% per annum.
Further details are the Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London included in the Directors Report on page 22.
EC2R 8JB, on Friday 18 July 2014 at 12 noon.
PERFORMANCE FEES The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak The maximum performance fee that is payable for the year to shareholders.
Anthony Bolton will be making a presentation ending 31 March 2014 has also been reduced from 1.5% to 1.0% on the years results and Dale Nicholls, the newly appointed of the average Net Asset Value during the year.
In addition, Portfolio Manager, will be talking about his investment style and any out-performance against the Companys Benchmark Index the prospects for the Company for the year to come.
We urge including the 2% hurdle rate, in excess of that required to reach you to come and join us for this occasion.
this 1% maximum fee, will no longer be carried forward.
Any under-performance against the Companys Benchmark Index including the 2% hurdle rate, must still be made good before a performance fee is payable.
Further details are included in the Directors Report on page 22.
John Owen CMG MBE DL The Directors believe that these fee changes will benefit Chairman shareholders in forthcoming years.
5 June 2014 ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD The AIFMD is a European Directive aecting many investment funds, including the Company, which are managed or promoted within the European Union.
It was implemented from 22 July 2013 and the Financial Conduct Authority has permitted a transitional period of one year.
The Board has decided in principle to appoint FIL Investment Services UK Limited a FIL Group company as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM in advance of the end of the transitional period on 22July 2014.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited will delegate the portfolio management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and for unlisted securities to FIL Investments International both current Managers.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 4
