STRATEGY Chairmans Statement Italy and Spain and ongoing problems in Ukraine also led to periods of volatility.
The economic recovery in the Eurozone remained fragile, though leading economic indicators stabilised.
Overall, larger companies, which lagged during the market rally of the last two years, performed well this year.
High profile mergers and acquisitions involving larger companies led to a reappraisal of larger company valuations, which were trading Humphrey van der Klugt atmulti-year lows relative to smaller sized companies.
Against Chairman this backdrop, your Portfolio Managers focus on companies withsolid balance sheets and growing dividends boosted I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity performance with strong stock selection contributing most European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014. toperformance.
This is covered more fully in the Portfolio Managers Review starting on page 7.
PERFORMANCE I am pleased to report that for the year ended 31 December, the OUTLOOK net asset value NAV per share total return of your Company The outlook for Europe appears to be mixed.
On the one hand, was 5.1%, outperforming its Benchmark Index, the FTSE World long term structural challenges remain, real growth is hard to Europe ex UK Index, which returned 0.2%.
The share price total come by and Greeces attempts to renegotiate its debt burden return over this period was 8.7%, ahead of the NAV return as a continue to cloud the future direction of the Eurozone.
On the consequence of the level of discount ex income narrowing from other hand, there are a number of tailwinds for the Eurozone 7.9% at the start of the year to 4.6% at the end of the year.
A weaker euro is likely to give European also pleased to say that three and five year performance exporters a significant boost.
At the same time, with the areaheadof the Benchmark Index as shown in the table exception of Greece, narrowing credit spreads for peripheral below.
Allfigures are in UK sterling terms and are on a total European government debt indicates improving investor return basis.
Finally the impact of falling energy costs and continuing absence of wage inflation in real terms should make European equities were flat in sterling terms over the twelve Europe more competitive going forward.
Recent economic month period ending 31 December 2014.
However, the stock indicators along with survey-based confidence indicators signal markets of continental Europe generally gained in local currency that growth is expected to remain moderate in 2015.
There are terms, boosted by the European Central Banks ECB downside risks to the economic outlook: a loss in economic announcement of a series of easing measures.
In addition, ECB momentum may dampen private investment and heightened President, Mario Draghi, hinted at the possibility of further geopolitical risks could have a further negative impact on quantitative easing in order to boost growth and tackle the business and consumer confidence.
In this respect, we continue threat of deflation, which supported markets.
Sentiment was also to focus on investing in strong European companies that offer supported by the increased confidence in the US economic fundamental value with the prospect of making positive returns recovery and indications that the Federal Reserve will be from current valuation levels.
We are, as I said this time last year, patient in the timing of interest rate increases.
Meanwhile, fortunate to have a wide choice of investment opportunities overall market gains were limited by many worries, including across the region.
Greeces possible exit from the Eurozone.
Political uncertainty in PERFORMANCE OVER ONE YEAR, THREE YEARS, FIVE YEARS AND SINCE LAUNCH TO 31 DECEMBER 2014 ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS % FTSE World Europe 1 NAV Share price ex UK Index One year 5.1 8.7 0.2 Three years 57.3 72.4 47.7 Five years 49.1 55.6 32.4 Since launch 1991 2,054.6 1,941.1 620.1 1 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 3 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 17 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement OTHER MATTERS Your Board has sanctioned share buybacks over the course of Sub-division of shares 2014 amounting to 1.3% of the issued share capital of the At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved Company as at 31 December 2014, a lower figure than the 2.2% the sub-division of the Companys ordinary shares of 25 pence repurchased in 2013.
The great majority of the repurchases took each into ten ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each.
Following place in the first half of the reporting year, and I am pleased to completion of the sub-division, 41,792,173 ordinary shares of say that we were able to reduce this activity in the latter part of 25pence each converted into 417,921,730 new ordinary shares of the year with an improvement in the way in which the Companys 2.5 pence each.
The new ordinary shares commenced trading on shares have traded against the NAV.
the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 2 June 2014.
The level of discount has narrowed from 7.9% at the start of the Change in Investment Policy year to 4.6% at the year end, based on the NAV excluding The Company sought and received shareholder approval at the income.
This narrowing in the discount has given rise to a share General Meeting held on 15 December 2014 to make changes to price total return of 8.7% for 2014, ahead of the NAV total return the Companys investment policy and a change to the wording of of 5.1%.
the investment objective in order to permit: Further details of share repurchases may be found in the an increase in the maximum amount of the Companys gross Directors Report on page 24. assets which can be invested in UK stocks from 5% to 20%: and Treasury shares The Board has decided to seek shareholder approval to hold in an enhancement in the Companys ability to use derivatives.
Treasury ordinary shares repurchased by the Company, rather than cancelling them altogether.
The Treasury shares would carry The Board and the Investment Manager were of the opinion that no voting rights or rights to receive a dividend and would have the 5% limit was unduly restrictive on the Investment Managers no entitlement in a winding up of the Company.
No more than 5% ability to invest in the UK, which has close and substantial trading of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company would be and investment relationships with continental Europe.
Any shares held in Treasury would only be additional flexibility allows Sam Morse, your Portfolio Manager, re-issued at a premium to NAV per share.
This would ensure that toinvest in a wider range of stocks which match his investment the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing ordinary shares criteria and give the opportunity to capitalise on investment would enhance NAV per share.
themes which span both continental Europe and the UK.
Sam Morse has extensive investment experience of the UK market.
The Board is seeking shareholder approval to implement this recommendation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board has also given Fidelity the flexibility to use an additional range of derivative instruments, when appropriate, to Dividends allow it potentially to both protect and enhance investment The Board intends to continue with its practice of largely paying returns.
The Board has created a framework of strict policies and out earnings in full.
The objective is one of long term capital exposure limits and sub-limits to manage the expanded use of growth and we will not seek to influence the Portfolio Manager derivatives.
The limits and their impacts are monitored daily by to determine the level of income of your Companys portfolio in the Manager and reported to the Board on a regular basis.
More information and details concerning the types of derivatives The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of which may be used and indeed limits on their use are set out in 3.10pence per share and a special dividend of 0.54 pence per the Strategic Report on page 10, along with the full Investment share, a total of 3.64 pence per share for the year ended Policy.
31December 2014 2013: final dividend of 2.98 pence restated for the ten for one sub-division of shares : special dividend nil.
Gearing Both the final and special dividends will be payable on 22 May The Company continues to gear through the use of long 2015 to shareholders who appear on the register as at close of Contracts For Difference CFDs.
As at 31 December 2014, business on 27 March 2015 ex-dividend date 26 March 2015. thelevel of gearing was 5.0% 2013: 4.3% and the Board has currently set a gearing range of 010%.
Gearing made a small The increase in the proposed final dividend for 2014 over 2013 positive contribution to performance in the reporting year, as can istherefore 4.2%.
Whilst we emphasise that the increase is a be seen from the attribution analysis table on page 11. function of stock selection and cannot be extrapolated into the future, Sam Morse continues to focus on companies which are Discount Management able to grow their dividends and this is one of the underlying The Board continues to adopt an active discount management factors in his stock selection.
A further explanation of the policy and share buybacks have been made during the year.
investment process can be found on pages 10 and 11.
Whilst the primary purpose of our policy is to reduce share price volatility in relation to NAV, buying in shares at a discount also results in an enhancement to NAV per share.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 4 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement I am pleased to say that the proposed special dividend is as a The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure report is result of the return of 2.3 million of French withholding tax and on pages 71 and 72. related late payment interest which has been successfully recovered from the French authorities.
I would like to commend Board of Directors Fidelity for the work done to reclaim tax refunds due to the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for Company and the Board believes it appropriate to pay this out Directors of FTSE 350 companies, the entire Board is subject to to shareholders.
The Directors biographies can be found on page 22.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills I would also like to repeat an observation I made last year which and experience to make up a balanced Board for your shareholders should consider when comparing the level of Company.
This is that we take a conservative approach of charging all management expenses Simon Fraser, due to his previous employment relationship with against income and not against capital.
Some Investment Trusts, the Manager, his length of service and his directorship of particularly those with an equity income objective, split another Investment Trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity management charges between capital and income, which has Japanese Values PLC, is deemed non-independent by the UK the effect of increasing the income return and thus dividend Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is convinced that his paying potential and reducing the capital return.
I would stress experience serves the Company well: and the Directors support that this does not alter the total return from both capital and unanimously his continued position as a Director of the Company.
Moreover, there is no right or With the exception of Simon Fraser, in the opinion of the Board, wrong way and it is a matter for judgement.
However, the basis all other Directors are independent.
should be taken into account, particularly when comparing the dividend yield between different companies.
In line with good corporate governance, the Board carries out an assessment of its own performance every year and every third Fee arrangements year an independent, externally facilitated evaluation of its On 30 January 2015, the Board announced that the investment performance takes place as required by the UK Corporate management performance fee which has been potentially Governance Code for Directors of all FTSE 350 companies.
This payable to Fidelity, when performance has exceeded a hurdle independent evaluation took place towards the end of 2014 and rate above the Benchmark Index, has been removed with effect the evaluation reported that the performance and contribution of from 1January 2015.
The last performance fee was paid for the the Board was effective and all Directors were committed to their year ending 31 December 2012.
We are pleased to have agreed roles.
this change with Fidelity and the result is a simple and transparent fee arrangement.
The Board has considered the proposals for the re-election of all of the Directors and recommends to shareholders that they vote The base fee annual management charge that the Company in favour of the proposals.
pays for investment management services remains unchanged at 0.85% of net assets, payable by way of 0.2125% per quarter as Continuation vote set out in the Directors Report on page 23.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an Regulatory matters investment trust for a further two years was passed at the 2013 The Board worked with its advisors in order to achieve Annual General Meeting.
A further continuation vote will take compliance with the European Alternative Investment Fund place at this years Annual General Meeting.
Managers Directive AIFMD which came into effect on 22 July 2014.
As a result the Board has appointed FIL Investment The Companys performance record has been excellent since Services UK Limited a Fidelity group company to act as the launch in November 1991 with a NAV total return of 2,054.6% Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
FIL Investment compared to the Benchmark Index return of 620.1%.
During the Services UK Limited has delegated the portfolio management year to 31 December 2014, the Companys NAV total return has to FIL Investments International who previously acted as the outperformed the Benchmark Index by 4.9% and is also ahead Companys Manager.
FIL Investments International continues to over 3 and 5 years, as reflected in the table at the bottom of act as Company Secretary.
An additional requirement of the AIFMD was to appoint a Your Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the Depositary on behalf of the Company to oversee the custody continuation vote.
A further continuation vote will take place at and cash arrangements of the Company.
The Company has the Annual General Meeting in 2017. appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act as the Companys Depositary.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is part of the same group of companies as JPMorgan Chase Bank which continues to act as the Companys Banker and Custodian.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 5 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA St Pauls or Mansion House tube stations on Thursday 14 May 2015 at midday.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 61 to 64.
My fellow Directors and I look forward to talking with as many shareholders as possible on this occasion and it will be our pleasure to hold a presentation by your Portfolio Manager, Sam Morse.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman 13 March 2015 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 6 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
