Chairmans letter In the present environment, returns to shareholders remain a key priority.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Dear fellow shareholder, We started 2014 with confidence in the overall development of the world and a feeling of progress in most of the worlds economies after several challenging years.
However, the year ended with significant uncertainties.
BP operates in a geopolitical environment that has become more turbulent and the price of oil has signicantly declined, returning to a pattern of volatility not seen for several years.
The industry must adapt rapidly.
Even before the recent volatility, we have taken measures to streamline and reshape BP.
We believe we are well positioned to meet the challenges of the coming years.
In 2011, we set out our 10-point plan with clear goals that we have delivered over the last three years.
This is a significant achievement for Bob Dudley and his team.
It marks a major step in refocusing the company after the tragic events of 2010 when 11 people lost their lives in the Deepwater Horizon accident something we must never forget.
Our strategic progress has to be tempered by the nding of gross negligence in the Clean Water Act litigation in the US, which we strongly disagree with and are appealing.
Strategy Completing the 10-point plan does not mean that our work is done.
The board continues to be deeply involved in discussing and shaping our strategy with its clear priorities, quality portfolio and distinctive capabilities.
10-year dividend history We successfully sold assets at a time of higher oil prices and are now going through a UK pence per ordinary share rapid cost adjustment to address this new landscape and improve our underlying business performance.
We are refocusing our approach to producing hydrocarbons in the US Lower 40 36.42 48 and we are resetting our operations across the entire business.
This is all taking place 29.39 without compromising on safety.
Our recent strategic partnership with Chevron in the Gulf 30 23.40 23.85 of Mexico demonstrates what we mean by value over volume through a new ownership 21.10 21.00 20.85 19.15 and operating model.
Our goals are to make investment choices that play to our strengths, 17.40 20 increase sustainable free cash ow and grow our distributions to shareholders.
8.68 We began a number of these initiatives earlier in 2014, putting us ahead of the current oil 10 price pressures.
These strategic actions will continue and more will be necessary as we respond to short-term imperatives.
We aim to ensure that BP builds on its distinctive 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 strengths in 2015 and beyond.
Shareholder distributions US cents per ADS The improved performance over the year and progress in strategic delivery has led to the boards decision to increase the dividend.
During 2014, the board reviewed the dividend 400 336 twice and each time raised it by 2.6%.
These increases are part of our strategy to grow 330 distributions.
During 2014 BP completed its $8-billion share buyback programme using 300 254 230 proceeds from the sale of our interest in TNK-BP.
Shares worth a further $2.3 billion were 234 219 209 198 also bought back in the year.
In the present environment, returns to shareholders remain a 168 200 key priority.
6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Oversight Board performance The board has continued to maintain oversight of performance, risk and financial efficiency For information about the board and its and kept a constant scrutiny on safety.
Each year we review and monitor the group level committees see page 51. risks through our own work and our committees, who carry out the majority of the work, Remuneration leaving the board free to address strategic issues.
For information about our directors There are, however, longer-term issues on which we also have to focus, such as carbon remuneration see page 72. and its role in climate change.
It is clear that it is for governments and regulators to set the boundary conditions to address these issues and we will develop our business within their framework.
For example, we already factor a price for carbon into our project evaluation.
We recognize that we need to play our part in informing this debate and we do this through our projections for future world energy markets in the BP Energy Outlook 2035.
Throughout, we must remain alert to developments that may alter the world in which we operate.
The board is recommending that shareholders support the resolution at the annual general meeting seeking greater transparency of reporting in this important area.
Governance and succession The board regularly considers how it operates and the appropriate composition and mix around the board table both to respond to todays challenges and BPs future strategic direction.
Antony Burgmans, the current chair of the remuneration committee, will stand down as a director in 2016.
In anticipation of his departure, Dame Ann Dowling will take over the chair of that committee during 2015.
We have also considered the chairs and membership of all other committees.
In 2012, upon Andrew Shilston joining the board and being appointed the senior independent director, we announced that Antony Burgmans would retain a role as an internal sounding board.
This role will cease after the annual general meeting.
Andrew will join the remuneration and nomination committees.
I would like to welcome Alan Boeckmann who joined the board as a non-executive director in July.
Alan brings deep experience of contractor management, procurement and project delivery in our industry following his career in Fluor Corporation.
Alan will be joining the remuneration committee after the annual general meeting.
Our longest serving director, Iain Conn, left the company in December to become chief executive of Centrica after an almost 30-year career with BP, spanning different businesses and regions.
George David will retire from the board at our AGM in April.
My fellow directors and I thank both Iain and George for their huge contributions and work on behalf of the board.
Top: Members of BPs safety, ethics and I would also like to thank Bob Dudley, his team, my board colleagues and all our environmental assurance committee SEEAC employees for all that they have done.
Finally, my thanks go to you, our shareholders, for in Azerbaijan.
the support you have shown us during the year.
Bottom: Cynthia Carroll attends a brieng during a visit to Brazil with SEEAC.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 3 March 2015 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 7
