Section 1: Chairmans Statement Although the Group began the financial year with no projects in Introduction construction, it has subsequently acquired or invested in four I am pleased to be writing to you with another good set of results for projects in their construction phases.
These represent around 7% of the Group.
Overall performance was strong, with the portfolio the portfolio by value as at 31 March 2014.
The largest of these, generating good underlying profitability and cashflows.
The quality Allenby and Connaught MoD Accommodation PFI project 5% of the of the Groups assets, coupled with their active investment portfolio by value, is expected to complete the final phase of its management, has ensured that the dividend target of 7.1p per share construction on schedule later this year.
Valuation Social infrastructure assets remain attractive with their low-volatility, As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a inflation-linked yield.
With increasingly high valuations attributed to fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at assets in the UK secondary market, the Investment Adviser has had 31 March 2014. to maintain its disciplined approach to acquisition pricing.
The Group has still been able to source attractive new investments in the UK, as The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, well as diversifying into new geographies such as France, and, since the economic assumptions adopted, and the discount rates applied.
The Directors have again taken independent third party advice on the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser.
Financial Results and Performance Financial Results The Directors have approved the valuation of 1,500.6m for the The Company has prepared its accounts for the year to 31 March portfolio of 93 investments as at 31 March 2014, which includes 2014 in accordance with IFRS, including IFRS 10 and the Investment 5.1m of future subscription obligations.
This compares with Entity amendments.
These require the Company to prepare IFRS 1,437.6m as at 30 September 2013, and 1,213.1m as at 31 March financial statements which do not consolidate the project company 2013 including 12.7m of subscription obligations.
An analysis of subsidiaries and hence closely resemble the pro-forma Investment the increase in the valuation is detailed in Section 2.7.
Basis financial reporting which has been presented in prior years.
The net asset value NAV per share was 126.7p at 31 March 2014 Profit before tax was 153.8m 2013 restated: 93.1m and earnings 2013 restated: 120.0p.
After taking into account the 3.6p per share per share were 13.1p 2013 restated: 10.4p.
second interim distribution, the NAV per share at 31 March 2014 was 123.1p: an increase of 5.8% over the comparable figure restated as Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital at 31 March 2013.
This increase is attributable to higher valuations repayments and fees was 112.4m 2013 restated: 78.2m.
After of infrastructure investments, the strong operational performance of Group costs, net cash inflows of 94.9m adequately covered the the portfolio, issuance of shares at a premium to NAV and value- 67.1m distributions paid in the year.
The Company raised a total of 109.0m before expenses during the Acquisitions year through two tap issues totalling 83.7m new ordinary shares in The Group made 16 new investments and six incremental acquisitions July 2013 and February 2014. during the year for a total consideration of 239.2m including 5.1m commitment for future loan note subscriptions.
Further details are set In March 2014, the Group renewed and increased its revolving credit out in Section 2.6 and Note 12b to the accounts.
facility on improved terms with a larger bank group.
Despite an increasingly competitive environment, the Investment More details of the financial results are set out in Section 2.6.
Adviser has been able to build a consistently strong pipeline of potential acquisitions, sourced through a wide network of Portfolio Performance relationships, and has successfully secured a fair share of the The Groups portfolio continues to perform well, and as at 31 March opportunities presented, sometimes on an exclusive basis.
During 2014 consisted of 93 social and transportation infrastructure the year the Investment Adviser participated in 18 auctions and was projects 79 as at 31 March 2013.
The return generated from the successful in only four, indicating that prices were generally higher portfolio after rebasing it for new investments, disposals and than the Group was prepared to pay.
distributions was 9.5% 2013: 8.9% which reflects not only the unwinding of the discount rate, but also value-accretive acquisitions Since the financial year-end the Group has acquired a 10% interest in and disposals as well as value enhancements such as insurance the N17 N18 Road Project in Ireland, an additional 16.5% interest in premia reductions and other cost saving initiatives.
the Miles Platting Project and is in the process of acquiring a 5.85% interest in the AquaSure desalination PPP project, for a combined In January 2014, the Group announced a transaction to rationalise its investment of approximately 52.1m.
portfolio through the divestment of an 80% stake in two PFI projects, Swindon Police and Dorset Police, for 9.2m.
A 1.1m profit was made on the original cost of these investments.
4 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 I am pleased to report a strong set of results, a consequence of successful, accretive acquisitions made over the last two years.
The Groups portfolio is performing well, with strong cash generation, which has enabled the Company to meet its dividend target for the year of 7.1p per share with good cash cover.
Fees and Costs Risks and Uncertainties Given the growth in the size of the Groups investment portfolio, the As infrastructure, particularly social infrastructure, has matured as Investment Adviser engaged with the Board to review the management an asset class so the benefits have become more widely recognised fee structure.
The outcome was agreement to two changes.
With growth in the universe of PFI PPP investments having slowed considerably due to less procurement in the UK, the Firstly, the provision for a higher annual management fee for projects balance between project supply and investor demand has now in ramp-up or under construction was removed, thereby simplifying tipped in favour of the vendors.
This has served to drive up prices, the fee structure.
Secondly, a further taper of the annual thus reducing returns, a phenomenon which has been particularly management fee was introduced.
Full details are provided in evident in competitive auctions.
Section 5 Report of the Directors.
As the Group invests in project companies, the key revenue risk is the As there are no performance fees or any other fees which might be risk of deductions from the availability payment made by the public paid to the Investment Adviser from the project companies, the sector client under each concession contract.
To date, through Directors believe the Company leads the sector in terms of effective asset management, performance deductions made under transparency and enjoys highly competitive terms.
the contracts have been relatively small and borne by subcontractors.
We recognise the importance of working with all Distributions stakeholders in a project to ensure value for money is achieved.
On 13 May 2014, the Board declared a second interim dividend of 3.6p per share for the year to 31 March 2014 2013: 3.575p.
This The Group seeks investments which are serviced by reliable and brought the total distributions paid for the year to 7.1p, representing experienced, third-party operators.
Although there is always a risk 1.4% growth on the prior year total of 7p.
As in prior years, a scrip that some may not perform satisfactorily or, in extremis, go out of dividend alternative will be offered to shareholders on the register as business, diversification of the projects service partners, provides at 23 May 2014. some mitigation.
After taking advice from the Companys corporate broker and the With a large portfolio, some projects not unexpectedly experience Investment Adviser, the Board has decided to move to paying operating issues from time to time.
The Investment Advisers team dividends to shareholders on a quarterly basis, the first of which will closely monitors each project, attends Board meetings and client be declared in July and paid in September.
liaison discussions, and takes appropriate action to resolve issues in a timely manner.
There are currently no performance or credit issues It remains the Boards intention to offer a scrip alternative in respect of any materiality upon which to report at a portfolio level.
of the quarterly dividends: further details will be provided in July when the first distribution is declared.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 5 Section 1: Chairmans Statement continued The Group currently has 13 investments located in Scotland After taking professional and legal advice, the Board has determined representing 15% of the portfolio by value as at 31 March 2014.
If that it will become a self-managed Alternative Investment Fund Scotland votes for independence in September, it is unclear how, if at AIF.
The Company will, in due course, register as a self-managed all, this would affect these investments which are secured under AIF, and a small number of changes to processes and procedures are legal concession contracts from public sector counterparties and being implemented to enable the Board to fulfil its prescribed role in provide essential assets and services.
The Board will take the supervision of investment decisions and the management of risk appropriate action when the outcome is known.
Financial regulation continues to change and affect the Company.
Outlook The Board monitors such changes, evaluates the likely impact, and With the attractions of infrastructure investments better understood, takes advice and acts appropriately to ensure that the business is new and additional capital has entered the market.
As a result, it has compliant.
The key elements of regulatory change that affect us are become more challenging to source investment opportunities with outlined below.
the risk-reward characteristics of earlier acquisitions.
That said, the Company continues to benefit from the Investment Advisers network Corporate Governance and Regulation of long-established relationships with potential vendors and developers.
The Group has proven to be a reliable party capable of As in previous years, all of the Companys Directors will offer evaluating acquisition opportunities efficiently, having the finance themselves for re-election at the AGM.
This is more regular than the available and possessing the ability to execute a purchase on time Companys Articles require but from a governance perspective and without last minute renegotiation.
Whilst the Group is evaluating more potential investments overseas, For the first time, the Annual Report includes a Remuneration and also investments in projects under construction, it is unlikely Committee Report.
This sets out the Directors remuneration policy that the overall composition of the portfolio will change materially.
and remuneration recommendations for the coming year and will be included in resolutions for shareholder approval at the forthcoming New investments that meet our requirements continue to come to AGM on 22 July 2014. market and include both single and portfolio opportunities.
Despite the more competitive environment in which we now trade, the As announced on 6 January 2014, following the UK Financial Conduct prospects remain good for the Group to make further value-accretive Authoritys rules concerning non-mainstream pooled investments investments this year.
NMPI, the Board confirmed that it conducts the Companys affairs, and intends to continue to conduct the Companys affairs, such that With the recent acquisitions funded from the Groups revolving credit the Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it facility, the Directors are considering the timing and quantum of were resident in the United Kingdom.
It is the Boards intention that further tap issuance.
the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in such a manner and that IFAs should therefore be able to recommend its Ordinary Shares The Board is pleased with the performance of the Groups investment to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the NMPI rules.
portfolio and the returns generated.
We are confident that previous guidance we gave of 7.25p per share aggregate dividend for the year During the year, in addition to the Board meeting shareholders at the to March 2015 remains appropriate.
Home Office event, I held a number of one-on-one meetings and was able to feedback the results of these discussions to the Board.
Good and effective communication with shareholders is enormously important to the Board which receives regular reports from the Investment Adviser and the Companys broker, both of whom participate in many meetings with existing and prospective investors.
Graham Picken In July 2013, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Chairman AIFMD came into force.
The Company has taken advantage of the 20 May 2014 transitional arrangements which allow a one years period of grace in order to put in place the policies, procedures and registration to enable compliance by July 2014.
6 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 The Groups Investment Portfolio as at 20 May 2014 Barking & Dagenham Schools Ealing Schools Irish Grouped Schools Rhondda Schools Boldon School Edinburgh Schools Kent Schools Sheffield BSF Schools Bradford Schools Falkirk NPD Manchester School Sheffield Schools Conwy Schools Fife Schools Newport Schools South Ayrshire Schools Cork School of Music Fife Schools 2 North Tyneside Schools University of Bourgogne Croydon School Haverstock School Norwich Schools West Lothian Schools Darlington Schools Health & Safety Labs Oldham Schools Wooldale Centre for Learning Defence Sixth Form College Helicopter Training Facility Perth & Kinross Schools Derby Schools Highland Schools PPP Renfrewshire Schools Barnet Hospital Central Middlesex Hospital Nuffield Hospital Sheffield Hospital Doncaster Mental Birmingham Hospitals Oxford Churchill Oncology Staffordshire LIFT Health Hospital Birmingham & Ealing Care Homes Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital Stoke Mandeville Hospital Solihull LIFT South West Hospital, Pinderfields & Bishop Auckland Hospital Tameside General Hospital Enniskillen Pontefract Hospitals Blackburn Hospital Glasgow Hospital Queen Alexandra Hospital West Middlesex Hospital Blackpool Primary Redbridge & Lewisham Hospital Willesden Hospital Care Facility Waltham Forest LIFT Brentwood Community Medway LIFT Romford Hospital Hospital Brighton Hospital Newton Abbot Hospital Salford Hospital Metropolitan Police Addiewell Prison Exeter Crown Courts Tyne & Wear Fire Stations Training Centre Greater Manchester South East London Dorset Fire & Rescue Police Stations Police Stations Dorset Police Gloucester Fire & Rescue Sussex Custodial Centre D & C Firearms Training Centre Medway Police Swindon Police A249 Road Dutch High Speed Rail Link N17 N18 Road A92 Road Kicking Horse Canyon P3 NW Anthony Henday P3 Connect PFI M80 Motorway DBFO RD 901 Allenby & Connaught University of Sheffield Home Office Northwood MoD HQ MoD Accommodation Accommodation 1 Colchester Garrison Miles Platting Social Housing Oldham Library AquaSure Royal School of Health & Safety Headquarters Newcastle Libraries Military Engineering KEY: Portfolio as at Acquired since Additional stake acquired Disposed Acquired since 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 since 31 March 2013 since 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 1.
Investment in AquaSure is in the process of being acquired as at 20 May 2014.
Based on the Directors valuation of the Groups investments at 31 March 2014 and the preceding 4 years.
Based on the Groups portfolio as at 31 March 2014 and the preceding 4 years, taking the weighted average concession length and debt term outstanding.
