Overview continued Group Chairmans Statement never forget that investors have choices Group Chairmans Statement where to invest and individuals have choices where to make their careers.
Thus it is essential that we can demonstrate a positive contribution to the societies we serve in order to bolster the business friendly environment that all agree is essential for economic growth and prosperity.
For 150 years HSBC has been following trade and investment flows to serve customers as they fulfil their financial ambitions.
In a world which has moved from being interconnected to being interdependent, our business model is increasingly relevant to companies of all sizes and to individuals whose financial future is linked to economic activity in multiple countries.
This can be seen most markedly in our HSBCs performance in 2014 reflected another year of Commercial Banking business, which delivered a record year buoyed by the consolidation in the reshaping and strengthening of the Group expansion of supply chain management against a backdrop of geopolitical and economic headwinds, many solutions and increasing cross-border of which could not have been foreseen at the outset of the year.
Our network coverage of the countries which originate more than 85% of the worlds payment activity drives As economic activity in much of the world It is clear now that societal, regulatory and this key element of our business model.
On failed to reach the levels required to public policy expectations of our industry the investment side, throughout our rebuild sustainable consumer confidence are changing its long-term cost structure.
network we saw corporate flows continuing and prompt renewed investment Technological advancements around data to target the higher growth emerging expenditure, governments most impacted analytics, including big data, are providing markets.
At the same time, growth in expanded their stimulus measures and the much more sophisticated tools to enhance outward investment from mainland China major central banks maintained interest our capabilities to protect the financial accelerated as its major companies sought rates at their unprecedented low levels.
Also, as more and diversification and access to both skill bases Concerns over deflationary trends, more customers choose to transact online and markets.
These trends played to HSBCs particularly in the eurozone, grew.
and through mobile devices, we are making scale and presence in the key financial Although China delivered growth which the necessary investment to protect centres, allowing us to support customers comfortably surpassed all other major ourselves and our customers from cyber with debt and equity financing solutions, economies, expectations of slower growth threats.
Building the required analytical offering tailored liquidity and transactional in the future weighed heavily on market capabilities entails considerable investment banking support and providing risk sentiment and contributed to significant in systems and in maintaining customer management solutions primarily against commodity price falls and further data which is accurate and up to date.
our clients interest rate and foreign curtailment of global investment spending.
Reconfiguring customer and transactional exchange exposures.
Success was data to the digital age is no small Unsurprisingly in this environment, revenue evidenced by growing recognition in endeavour given legacy systems and a growth opportunities were strongest in our industry awards, the most important of multiplicity of historical data standards Asian businesses, with expansion in lending which are referred to in the Group Chief globally.
The benefits, however, of and debt capital financing.
Finally, our Retail enhanced customer due diligence continued globally in large part to Banking and Wealth Management business capabilities and greater systems security implement regulatory change and enhance continued its journey to build a sustainable essentially go to the core of our systemic risk controls, notably around financial customer focused business model, role and allow us to be more proactive in system integrity and conduct.
Streamlining completing the removal of formulaic links fulfilling that role as a key gatekeeper to initiatives could only partly offset this cost between product sales and performancethe financial system.
Further customer redress costs related pay of our staff, and expanding our and regulatory penalties around past As our industry reshapes in response to digital and mobile offerings.
failings reinforced the Boards continuing public policy and regulatory directives, we commitment to prioritise whatever further now need to demonstrate, through clarity investment in systems and controls is of our business model, the value to society necessary to mitigate future repetition.
of our scale and diversification.
We must HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 4 would operate in practice.
In both cases, society but to our staff to ensure they can Performance in 2014 this involved the critical issue of how to be rightly proud of the organisation to Profit before tax of US$18.7bn on a address cross-border implications and which they have committed their careers.
reported basis was US$3.9bn or 17% home and host country regulatory When commentators extrapolate instances lower than that achieved in 2013.
of control failure or individual misconduct primarily reflected lower business disposal to question the culture of the firm it strikes and reclassification gains and the negative There is, however, still much to complete.
painfully at the heart of our identity.
effect, on both revenue and costs, of The regulatory reform agenda for 2015 significant items including fines, settlements, is very full with pending public policy Swiss Private Bank UK customer redress and associated decisions, regulatory consultations and The recent disclosures around provisions.
On the adjusted basis that is impact studies in areas of far reaching unacceptable historical practices and one of the key metrics used to assess influence to the structure of our industry.
behaviour within the Swiss private bank current year management and business These include the conclusion of structural remind us of how much there still is to do performance, profit before tax was separation deliberations in Europe, further and how far societys expectations have US$22.8bn, broadly in line with 2013 work on so called shadow banking changed in terms of banks responsibilities.
including identifying non-bank systemically They are also a reminder of the need for important institutions, addressing Earnings per share were US$0.69, against constant vigilance over the effectiveness of the resolution framework for central US$0.84 in 2013.
The Groups capital our controls and the imperative to embed a counterparties, finalising the calibration of position remained strong with the robust and ethical compliance culture.
the leverage ratio, calibrating the quantum transitional common equity tier 1 ratio We deeply regret and apologise for the of total loss absorbing capacity to be raised standing at 10.9% at the end of the year, conduct and compliance failures highlighted and settling the disposition of that capacity compared with 10.8% 12 months earlier, which were in contravention of our own within global groups.
and our end point ratio at 11.1% compared policies as well as expectations of us.
Based on this capital strength In response to, and in parallel with, the Restoration of trust in and the Groups capital generating tax investigations prompted by the data capabilities, the Board approved a fourth our industry remains a theft more than eight years ago, we have interim dividend in respect of 2014 of significant challenge as been completely overhauling our private US$0.20 per share, taking the total banking business, putting the entire further misdeeds are dividends in respect of the year to US$0.50 customer base through enhanced due per share US$9.6bn, US$0.4bn higher than uncovered but it is a diligence and tax transparency filters.
Our in respect of 2013. challenge we must meet Swiss Private Bank customer base and the Taking into account this financial countries we serve are now both about successfully.
performance, together with the further one-third of the size they were in 2007. progress made in reshaping the Group, In addition, further work will be undertaken In addition, HSBC is already working to responding to regulatory change and on utilising standardised risk weights to implement the OECDs Common Reporting implementing Global Standards, the Board overcome regulatory loss of confidence in Standard and other measures to foster considered executive management to internally modelled capital measures and a greater transparency.
We cannot change have made good progress during 2014 fundamental review of the trading book the past.
But, looking to the future, we towards strengthening HSBCs long-term is also underway within the regulatory can and must reinforce controls and competitive position.
community to look again at capital support provide demonstrable evidence of their The Group Chief Executives Review for this activity.
This forms part of our analyses in detail the important in aggregate are designed to make the commitment to Global Standards, to benchmarks and highlights of 2014. industry structurally more stable, will take ensure that we will never knowingly do the next five or so years to implement, business with counterparties seeking to Regulatory landscape becomes an indication of the scale of the evade taxes or use the financial system to clearer but still much to do transformation to be completed.
A great deal of progress was made during During 2014, the UK government also 2014 to finalise the framework under which Banking standards confirmed the permanence of the UK bank globally systemic banks like HSBC will be More broadly, following the publication in levy.
This was introduced in 2010, in part required to operate when it is fully 2013 of the Parliamentary Commission on to address the burden borne by taxpayers implemented.
This clarity is essential if Banking Standards, considerable progress from failures during the global financial we are to be able to position our global has been made in giving effect to its crisis: in 2014, the cost to HSBC of the levy businesses to meet the return expectations recommendations.
The Financial Services was US$1.1bn, an increase of US$0.2bn of those who invest in us within an Banking Reform Act of 2013 provided over 2013.
58% of the levy we pay does acceptable risk appetite.
greater clarity on the accountabilities and not relate to our UK banking activity.
responsibilities of management and the In particular, major progress was made in Board.
We welcome the appointment of Rebuilding trust addressing the challenge of too big to fail, Dame Colette Bowe to lead the Banking Restoration of trust in our industry remains largely through finalising proposals to Standards Review Council and have a significant challenge as further misdeeds augment existing loss absorbing capacity committed to support her fully in its work.
are uncovered but it is a challenge we must with bail-inable debt and through greater The current Fair and Effective Markets meet successfully.
We owe this not just to definition of how resolution frameworks HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
