Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OVERVIEW Chairmans introduction Welcome to our Annual Report for 2014.
Your Company continued to perform extremely well last year despite difficult conditions in many A strong of its markets.
Reported adjusted diluted earnings were 208.1p per share, a decline of 3.9% on 2013 that was driven entirely by significant currency fluctuations which also impacted our other reported results.
underlying On a constant currency basis, the Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings growth of 7.9% to 233.7p per share and grew overall market share, driven by an excellent performance by the Global Drive Brands.
The Groups strong underlying growth is performance consistent with our performance in recent years and was achieved while we continued to invest in sustaining the future profitability of the business, in areas such as next-generation products, operational efficiencies, marketing support for our brands and in recruiting and developing high-quality managers.
So your Company continues to perform strongly and because we remain confident about our strategy and future performance while recognising the uncertainty and transactional costs caused by currency movements we are proposing a 3.3% increase in the final dividend to 100.6p per share.
This takes the total dividend for 2014 to148.1p, an increase of 4.0% on 2013.
If approved at our Annual General Meeting, The Groups strong underlying growth the final dividend will be paid on 7 May is consistent with our performance in 2015 to shareholders on the register on 20 March 2015. recent years and was achieved while we continued to invest in sustaining the Investing in Reynolds American future profitability of the business.
In July 2014, we announced an investment of US$4.7 billion in Reynolds American Inc. subject to the completion of its proposed acquisition of Lorillard.
This will maintain our 42% equity position in a larger, more competitive Reynolds American.
We also agreed, in principle, to extend our existing cooperation with Reynolds American to encompass collaboration on nextgeneration products.
Our governance: read the Chairmans Richard Burrows introduction to our Governance section Chairman onpage46 02 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
