54 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Chairmans statement The board is committed to leading cultural change Dear shareholder, My role as Chairman is to ensure that the board receives relevant, highquality information and to provide an environment in which the board One of the most significant issues that the board and the Company is able to develop and promote the collective vision of the Companys had to deal with during the year was the settlements reached with the purpose, its culture, its values and the behaviours it wishes to promote CFTC and the FCA in respect of the involvement of certain of our former in conducting its business.
Within board meetings, the debate is both brokers in the attempted manipulation of yen Libor by bank traders supportive and rigorous but outcomes are agreed and are invariably between October 2006 and January 2011.
Clearly the conclusions of the the better for the debate.
The relationship between the executive and regulators were extremely disappointing and lessons have been learnt.
non-executive directors is clearly understood and properly managed.
A programme of improvements in the risk and compliance systems The board effectiveness review has confirmed that all members and in the training of our people was already underway at the time the believe board meetings are constructive and foster discussion and settlements were announced and this programme continues as part informed debate.
of the enhanced governance framework and under the Undertakings agreed with the CFTC.
We also initiated a wider improvement The board provides a challenging environment to senior managers who programme based on the text and context of the regulatory settlements.
present to the board on specific areas of their business or in respect of Much progress has been made but the work to embed the required new initiatives.
During the year, the Risk Committee received a number cultural changes will continue and the board, under my chairmanship, is of presentations from business chief executive officers describing committed to providing leadership for this programme of improvement.
the inherent risks and the day-to-day management of those risks.
These have provided assurance to the board that the business is fully ICAPs four values leadership, integrity, entrepreneurship and respect engaged in the implementation of the operational risk framework.
for control define its culture.
These values and ICAPs strategic objectives provide the basis for the governance framework and the work The board, and directors individually, have visited a number of global of your board.
I visited ICAP businesses in the US, Johannesburg, Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila and Sydney where I had the opportunity to To meet these values, and to be effective, the board requires a meet regional and local management.
Such visits are always well received combination of the right people who have a deep knowledge of ICAPs and provide opportunities, both formal and informal, for directors to meet business and its strategy and who are engaged with the execution those who formulate and execute the Group strategy.
In the year the of that strategy.
All board members have extensive financial services board met six times, once in Jersey City and, in March 2014, the board experience both in ICAPs core businesses and in its infrastructure visited its joint venture partner in Shanghai.
Diane Schueneman, for example, has provided valuable insight into a number of IT and infrastructure projects on a divisional and Group The boards agenda during the year has included the ongoing financial basis.
John Sievwright continues to provide strong leadership of the regulatory reform, the impact on trading and financial implications due Audit and Risk Committees and, in response to changing circumstances, to the ongoing uncertainty within markets, a review of a number of has increased the governance remit of the Risk Committee.
key strategic developments such as the implementation of the SEF, One such change has been the establishment of an Operational Risk new initiatives such as the successful launch of ICAP Fusion, EBS Direct, Framework Implementation Committee, chaired by myself, which CreditLink and triResolve, further details of which can be found in the is responsible for the oversight of operational risk areas identified as strategic report on pages 2 to 49. requiring improvement.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 55 Your non-executive directors commit significant time to ICAP.
The board met six times during the year and convened by conference calls on a further 11 occasions.
The independent non-executive directors are members of the principal board committees of Audit, Governance, Risk, Nomination and Remuneration.
I attend meetings of those committees which I do not chair.
The board effectiveness review identified that board improvement opportunities, including the appointment of additional non-executive directors, should remain under consideration.
The board has received feedback from an external consultant on a review undertaken of the senior management Group GEMG.
This is part of an ongoing leadership development programme and is a key component of the boards succession planning.
Charles Gregson One of the additional reporting requirements that has been introduced Chairman is the statement by the directors on page 74 that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The assurance process to support such a statement has been led by the Audit Committee, on behalf of the board, and details of the key issues considered are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 60 to 61.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Robert Standing, has spent ICAPs strong corporate governance framework continues to evolve in time reviewing the structure of executive director and senior executive order to provide the open, honest and transparent environment required remuneration as a result of the new remuneration reporting regime to support and execute ICAPs strategy.
I am pleased to report that and has also considered at length what impact the settlements with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the FCA and the CFTC should have on relevant senior managements have again been complied with in full during the year.
The executive directors bonus pool for the year has been tendering the external audit is set out in the Audit Committee report.
impacted by the lower trading profit before tax and further reduced by The following pages provide details of the corporate governance the cash costs related to the yen Libor settlements.
This reduced the framework which is in place to support the long-term success of bonus pool by over 50% compared with the prior year.
relating to certain of Global Brokings senior management team were One of the most rewarding days as Chairman of ICAP is the day in also impacted.
Further details of the remuneration arrangements December designated as Charity Day.
Last December, a fantastic for the executive directors are set out in the remuneration report 9.5 million was raised and I would like to thank everyone involved in on pages 75 to 88. achieving such a magnificent result.
More details of the causes the Board composition and succession planning remain on the boards money is donated to can be found in the corporate responsibility and agenda.
The balance of three executive directors and four independent relationships section on pages 38 to 41. non-executive directors currently works well.
During the year, Despite a very difficult year which included challenging market conditions, Hsieh Fu Hua retired as a director following his appointment as chairman a changing regulatory environment, the impact of the regulatory of United Overseas Bank Limited.
In July 2013 we welcomed to the settlements and a number of natural disasters in areas in which the board Ivan Ritossa who has brought very relevant commercial skills Group operates, ICAP remains resilient.
I would like to thank all employees and international experience of the markets in which ICAP operates, and my board colleagues for their continuing support and commitment particularly electronic trading.
Further details of Ivans experience, and to ICAP.
the particular skills he brings to the board, are set out in his biography on page 53.
This appointment has strengthened the boards diversity in terms of background, nationality and areas of expertise.
Charles Gregson As recently announced, John Nixon has decided to retire from the board Chairman at the end of March 2015 after 16 years with the Group in various senior 14 May 2014 roles.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank John for his valuable contribution to ICAP.
Most recently, he has led the development and growth of our Americas business during a period of significant regulatory change which included overseeing the launch of i-Swap and the ICAP SEF.
Johns services will continue to be available to the Group for three years under a consultancy arrangement, further details of which are provided in the remuneration report on page 82.
