CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED INTRODUCING OUR STRATEGY ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF options market, although the longer-term impact from a SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP ACTIVE TRADERS new online suitability test is yet to be fully understood.
During the year we acquired a number of local domain As we drive towards our ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND As we reported two years ago, the Monetary Authority of names to support IG.
com in specific countries, as well as MARKET LEADERSHIP vision of becoming the Singapore MAS has indicated an intention to introduce investing in a number of new generic top-level domains stricter leverage restrictions on retail forex trading at some gTLDs which are directly relevant to our business.
This default choice for active STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE point.
It now looks as if these rules may come into force investment positions us well to take full advantage, over the traders, we maintain during the course of 2015.
We expect the restrictions to have coming years, of possible changes to the way people use only a limited impact on our business, as they do not apply and search the internet if, as we expect, gTLDs become an focus on five key DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS to clients with higher levels of income or assets accredited increasingly integral part of its structure.
investors who make up the majority of our revenue.
MAS Towards the end of the year we established an offshore IT has recently approved an e-learning module, which went live SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP and marketing development office in Eastern Europe, which at the start of July, and this should provide some relief from is focused on recruiting and converting clients through current impediments to recruiting clients in Singapore who mobile apps: around a third of all client trades are made have no prior experience of trading our products.
Our current apps are designed with our most experienced and demanding clients in mind, and we OUR CHAIRMAN We have achieved our status as a global leader in online trading as a result of many years focused on delivering defined will continue to ensure we lead the industry in this category.
goals, with meticulous attention to detail, in technology development, risk management, sales and marketing and customer However, this new team will focus on developing apps Jonathan Davie has chaired IG since before our public service.
As we look to the future, our vision is to become the default choice for active traders, and our five strategic more suited to less-experienced new and potential clients, listing in 2005: he has therefore served the full term objectives are designed to give us a clear route to realising this vision.
concentrating on early-stage education and simplification of permitted for an Independent Non-Executive Director the recruitment and conversion process through apps.
and, as announced last year, will step down at the next In the following sections, we first introduce our product range and the essentials of what we do, before describing our Annual General Meeting in October.
During Jonathans strategic objectives in more detail and explaining how they link to our business model.
We then explore in detail five tenure as Chairman we have expanded from operating in DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS examples of our strategies in action.
two countries to operating in 15, and we have grown our We continually monitor the quality of our service through a In recent months we have taken a number of significant steps towards our goals: revenue more than sevenfold.
I would like to put on record number of different methods, including a rolling survey of the Boards thanks for his contribution to this success.
our client base and independent mystery-shopping which OPENING OUR OFFICE IN SWITZERLAND STRENGTHENING OUR BRAND I am pleased to welcome Andy Green as our Chairmantests our customer service and that of our main competitors.
We are in the final stages of our application for a Building on the global rollout of IG.
com, we have Designate, and I very much look forward to working with We continue to score highly in these surveys, and during licence to operate from our new office in Geneva.
This developed an increasingly responsive, real-time approach him as we continue to develop IG.
this year we saw an increase in levels of satisfaction with the will give us immediate access to a significant financially to our marketing.
We have made significant gains in our quality of our customer service.
engaged population, in a country with extremely high ability to use our market-leading technology to target OUTLOOK average income per head and an underdeveloped customers with contextual messaging and promotions, During this year we introduced Think Tank, an online forum competitive environment.
wherever they are in the world.
And with the launch of In November, IG will celebrate its 40th anniversary.
We have for invited clients to provide feedback on various aspects IG Live, we now stream live video analysis and commentary grown our revenues in virtually every one of those 40 years of our products, platforms and services.
This new resource LAUNCHING OUR EXECUTION-ONLY from our in-house studio three times a day.
and have achieved that against a broad range of market has proved valuable in more formally incorporating clients STOCKBROKING OFFER and economic backdrops bull and bear markets, the 1987 suggestions and comments into our development process.
Our stockbroking service, which we began to pilot-test in Elsewhere, the year also saw us make a major addition to crash, the dotcom frenzy, the most recent financial crisis I am extremely grateful to those clients who participate in July, is powered by our existing leading technology and our global sponsorship portfolio, with the announcement and through cycles of boom and bust.
Our operating model Think Tank for the time and thought they devote to helping provides clients with access to live streaming prices and a of an exciting three-year partnership with Harlequins Rugby and risk management have been thoroughly tested and us shape our offering.
transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective Club in the UK.
We have continually adapted way to trade international equities.
We believe in many our business to a changing world, moving from telephonecases this will greatly improve their trading experience REGULATION based dealing to internet dealing and increasingly to compared with their current stockbroking provider.
Our drive to innovate and to Although there are few tangible signs of progress by the FURTHER DEVELOPING OUR MOBILE OFFER grow our business remains extremely strong and I believe 11 EU member states seeking to introduce a financial Technology is a key differentiator and we continue to invest that IG is better placed than ever before to deliver the next transaction tax FTT under the enhanced-cooperation heavily in this area.
Our clients will increasingly interact with phase of growth.
In particular, the imminent launch in the UK process, the rhetoric suggests that eventually we will see us using mobile devices, with around a third of trades now of our stockbroking service, as part of our comprehensive some form of levy on financial transactions.
However, we coming from mobile apps.
Our recent focus has been on share-trading offering, positions us well to address the continue to believe that any tax would be considerably less providing functionality on mobile devices equivalent to that needs of a much broader audience of active traders.
onerous than originally proposed, and could most easily on desktops, enabling clients to trade and to service their take a form similar to UK stamp duty or the French FTT, accounts fully on the move.
During the year we launched neither of which impact on our business.
iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7, and released a mobile In Japan, new rules came into force halfway through the version of IG.
com for all operating systems.
financial year on binary options.
Since these rules took Tim Howkins effect we have seen an increase in our share of the binary Chief Executive Officer 22 July 2014 10 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 11 Strategic Report | Introducing Our Strategy CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES WHAT WE DO We provide active traders with fast and flexible access to the financial markets using our award-winning dealing platforms.
Clients can trade seamlessly across a range of instruments, including indices, shares, forex and commodities.
Our clients can choose to trade in a variety of ways.
In the UK, our direct clients who wish to hold assets over a longer period OUR PRODUCTS can use our execution-only stockbroking service to buy and sell both UK and international equities, as well as exchangeWe offer a variety of products, in line with the differing regulatory environments in the territories where we operate.
For clients seeking a shorter-term trade, our range of leveraged products enables them to go long or short on multiple asset types, without the need to hold the underlying instrument and with only a relatively small deposit of margin.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE CFDs CFDs are derivatives that enable clients to take advantage of changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself.
1 CFD provider We offer global CFD trading, including direct market access DMA to shares and forex markets The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a CFD can be used to sell a market when you expect it to fall.
This is INDICES known as going short.
In this scenario, a subsequent fall in the market price results in a profit for the client while a rise The movements of global stock indices such as results in a loss.
The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a CFD trade on the DAX, the Dow Jones and the FTSE 100. page 158.
FX OUR RANGE OF THE TRADE SHARES FOREX You open a trade for 500 contracts OVER 10,000 GLOBAL MARKET at the market price of 320p The performance of The value of one currency FINANCIAL MARKETS RISE thousands of individual INCLUDES: in relation to another, COMMISSION companies.
such as the pound versus 370p 10.00 the dollar.
CLOSING MARKET PRICE SIZE SHARES 350p PRICE 320p 500 If you expect the market to fall, MARKET you sell at the MARKET PRICE COMMODITIES 320p PRICE The prices of key resources such as gold, oil GOING SHORT MARKET PRICE RISES and wheat.
CLOSING 290p PRICE CLOSING PRICE LOSS 270p 350p 150.00 The market moves by 30p We also offer trading opportunities on interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds ETFs and a number of MARKET FALL other markets.
CLOSING PRICE PROFIT Our clients can deal 24 hours a day and access their accounts on the move using our range of customised apps for mobile 290p 150.00 devices.
We also provide clients with access to advanced chart packages and automated-trading facilities, as well as tools MARKET PRICE FALLS and resources to help them keep abreast of market movements and identify trading opportunities.
1 Based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2014.
12 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 13 Strategic Report | What We Do
