strateGic report Governance Financial statements CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dear shareholder Conducting a Board evaluation this process, moderated by an external firm, Your Board is committed to maintaining generated 360 degree feedback for high standards in the area of corporate each Director and highlighted areas for governance.
Throughout the year the Board to focus on in future to ensure to 31 March 2014, the Group was in proper oversight of the Group compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Splitting the Risk Committee from the issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Audit Committee this separation, which A copy of the Code is publicly available on took place in March 2013, has enabled the Financial Reporting Councils website the members of the Risk Committee to JUstIn DoWLeY www.
uk take a more focused look at some of Chairman the key risks facing our Group.
This has The Board is responsible to the shareholders been combined with the introduction of a of the Company as a whole, and manages rolling agenda for these committees and the Group for the benefit of those the Remuneration Committee to ensure shareholders.
To achieve this the Board that all relevant matters are reviewed on a must provide leadership of the Group within regular basis a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed, and Continuing regular shareholder meetings which ensure that the necessary financial members of the Board have regularly met and human resources are in place for the with a number of shareholders to deliver Company to meet its objectives and thus updates on the performance and strategy increase shareholder value.
In fulfilling these of the Groups business and to allow roles we aim to exercise correct supervision shareholders to air any concerns while fostering a corporate culture that Three new Directors, including two new permits growth and empowers the NonExecutive Directors, joined the Board entrepreneurial spirit of our employees.
in the prior financial year, and so the year The Corporate Governance report on covered by this report has been their first the following pages gives details on this full year on the Board.
Each of them is a important area.
Some of the steps we took full contributor at Board meetings, and Our strong governance to fulfil this responsibility during the last as they have gained experience in Board financial year were: proceedings, our discussions have become framework is integral ever more robust and detailed.
Receiving detailed reports on new areas to our business.
of business the Board is keen to ensure Our strong governance framework will that areas of significant expansion are remain integral to our business model during monitored, and has received detailed the coming financial year as we seek to presentations from a number of grow our assets under management and business unit heads about their strategy deliver growth for our shareholders without and operations compromising our risk management and internal controls.
Overseeing geographical expansion the Group has opened a new office JUstIn DoWLeY in Tokyo and expanded its operations Chairman 23 May 2013 in a number of other jurisdictions, including the United States and Australia.
This has required extensive awareness of and compliance with local legal and regulatory requirements 46 47
