8 International Personal Finance plc OVERVIEW Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have a development We have developed into a strategy that is opening robust international up new opportunities business with diversified for growth.
funding and a strong management team.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Dear Shareholder, Delivering our strategy It is our people It is almost three years since we all 38,000 of In December we announced my launched our Strategy for Growth them who intention to retire as Chairman of and Im delighted to see strong deliver these the Company at our 2015 AGM.
progress made in opening new successes and As I enter my last few months as markets and delivering new products maintain our Chairman, I can look back on the which will drive growth in 2015 and culture years since we became a public beyond.
We have continued to company in 2007 with some expand our geographical footprint in satisfaction.
We have developed into our existing markets and the planned a robust international business with launch of our Spanish business will diversified funding and a strong be an exciting growth opportunity.
We came We have also continued to roll out through the financial crisis with one other product and channel initiatives profit warning but no losses, indeed that we believe will add further to the the robust profit performance of the shareholder returns that we generate business reflects the attractions of from our home credit business.
None of this would be possible without the A particular focus for the Board in business being resilient, responsible 2014 has been to ensure the business and relevant, which forms the theme remains relevant in a fast-changing of this report and the foundation for world where technology drives our continued success.
We continued to modernise our Looking forward, we have a agent-led business through development strategy that is technology to make the most of the beginning to embed improved opportunities that we face in the processes and enabling technology future.
The launch of our online across the organisation and our hapiloans business will allow us to product and market development service a new customer segment plans are opening up new who want a remote, digital loan.
also delighted that we completed our first acquisition in February 2015 Delivering value Strategic Report 9 of MCB Finance for a total Board oversight to the change ambitions.
You can read more about See page 31 consideration of 23.8 million.
for more programme, and sits on the these initiatives on page 26. information on MCB Finance is a profitable digital Remuneration Committee.
As always, the Board would like to MCB Finance consumer finance provider offering I am delighted to welcome Dan extend its thanks to all our credit products to 121,000 active OConnor as an independent management, employees and retail customers and in the year to non-executive director, who brings with agents for all their hard work and 31 December 2013 issued credit in him over 25 years experience in large efforts in 2014.
But this year I would excess of 90 million.
This acquisition international and financial services like to add a my particular personal fits well with our digital strategy and companies, which will help drive our thanks to all those who have been brings expertise, a proven technical Strategy for Growth.
Dan will succeed on the journey with me.
Your platform and new geographies to me as Chairman of the Group and commitment has never wavered and our portfolio.
of the Nomination Committee at you have been a great team to our AGM on 30 April 2015. work with.
2014 results We delivered another record profit of We are all sorry to see the departure I wish Dan OConnor every good 123.5 million before tax and of Edyta Kurek.
She has brought great fortune as my successor.
He has the exceptional items in 2014, and I am insights in running large sales forces experience and the commitment to confident that the progress we have and her knowledge and experience the sector to take the business and made in delivering our strategy, in many of our markets have been our team on to new heights.
growth levels will increase in 2015. invaluable.
We wish her well in her I look forward to watching the new full-time role and are only sad We are very much focussed on business grow and prosper in the that the demands and geographic delivering value to our shareholders.
range of her responsibilities mean We have nearly completed a 50 she has had to step down from million share buyback and also our Board.
increased our target dividend ratio pay-out rate to 35% of post-tax Our people and values earnings.
Subject to shareholder Our values of being respectful, approval, I am pleased to report a responsible and straightforward are final dividend of 7.8 pence per share, Christopher Rodrigues well recognised by our teams and in which will bring the full year dividend Chairman 2014 we worked hard to complement to 12.0 pence per share, an increase these behaviours with greater visibility of 29%.
We introduced a mandatory ethics e-learning test Board changes that was tailored to our business and To help support our growth plans we in November we held a Group-wide have recruited to add to our ethics webcast for employees to experienced and talented team.
As reinforce our ethical standards.
mentioned in my last report, the FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES appointment of Adrian Gardner to Our commitment to high professional the Board as Chief Financial Officer standards has its rewards.
Our in January 2014 not only broadened business practices have once again our senior leadership team but, received plaudits from external importantly, allowed David bodies.
In Poland the team was We are modernising our Broadbent, who had previously certified as a top employer.
In business and launching served as Finance Director, to take on Hungary we were recognised for the role of Chief Commercial Officer, excellence in customer service and new products to meet leading the modernisation of our in the Czech Republic as a best the changing needs of home credit business.
non-bank provider of consumer credit.
The Board was particularly pleased Of course it is our people all 38,000 to welcome Cathryn Riley in February of them who deliver these 2014 as non-executive director.
successes and maintain our culture.
Having previously worked in We have continued to invest in our technology leadership roles for major teams and in 2014 we launched two financial and healthcare providers, new learning and development Cathryn has brought invaluable programmes Aspire and Leading See pages 30 to 37 for more information experience to our transformation for Growth.
Cathryn chairs the ensure we have high-calibre Transformation for Growth managers with the leadership skills in Committee, which provides detailed place to realise our long-term growth
