Chairmans Letter portfolio these avenues often have reduced levels of competition Dear Shareholders, and through these better value can be achieved for shareholders.
It is with great pleasure that I am able to report to you on another Indeed the five investments made during the period, representing successful year for the Company.
investment of 188.2million 2013: 36.5 million, were all made on this basis.
A further 18.2 million has been committed to the The year has been an active one with all our assets performing well first two of five batches of schools being delivered through the and record levels of new investment being made.
The Companys Priority Schools Building Programmes Aggregator funding vehicle market capitalisation at year end of over 1.1 billion very much earlier this month.
reflects the ongoing positive development of our portfolio of infrastructure projects.
This preferred access to new opportunities should be further enhanced through the recently announced link up between Amber Dividend Growth and the Hunt Companies more details of which are referred to The Board understands that the Companys ability to deliver below.
This has resulted in the grant to the Company of additional consistent and growing dividends is a key factor in many of our rights of first look in respect of certain new investments, of a type shareholders decisions to invest in the Company.
It is therefore consistent with our existing portfolio, within the United States and pleasing to report to you that the Company was again able to we look forward to an enhanced flow of projects from this source deliver its dividend target for the year of 6.30p per share or c. 2.5% in the medium term.
growth, a rate of growth that has been consistent since the Companys inception eight years ago.
New investments in 2014 were funded through a mix of the Companys existing resources, including its corporate debt facility, We remain focused on the ability of the Company to continue to together with share capital raised by means of a tap issue in grow fully covered cash dividends and we are confident that this November 2014.
This capital issuance was extremely well can be achieved.
The Board have therefore once again published a supported and closed oversubscribed with a mix of existing and minimum dividend target being 6.45p per share for 2015 and new new investors, raising 95 million, well in excess of the 70 million guidance of 6.65p per share for the 2016 dividend, an average originally targeted.
The capital was immediately fully deployed in increase of c. 2.5% per annum, to give additional clarity to reducing the balance of the Companys revolving debt facility.
We shareholders as to our intentions in the future.
would like to thank all those shareholders who participated in the offer for their support.
Investment Activity and Capital Raising The markets in which the Company operates continue to be very Despite the record level of investment in 2014 the Company buoyant.
This is positive for our existing assets as the rates at which remains very focused on adding to its portfolio in a measured way, comparable assets are traded provide evidence of the value of our choosing to do so only where it considers an investment represents own assets.
However, as we have previously noted, the strength in good value.
The addition of such a large volume of investment in the market also provides a challenge for sourcing value-enhancing 2014 contrasts with the position in 2013 and is reflective of the investments on an ongoing basis.
This is particularly the case for many years of work that are often required to develop and execute assets which are traded in the secondary market where these transaction opportunities.
The timing of the completion of competition for such assets has pushed pricing to levels that we these projects is often difficult to predict.
believe would not be accretive to our portfolio.
In addition to the acquisitions made during the period, the The Company believes that its differentiated strategy of preferring Company disposed of a number of minority interests within its to acquire investments off-market, by exercising pre-emption rights portfolio generating proceeds of 22.3 million being substantially in existing investments and via the origination activities of its in excess of the carrying value of these stakes at the time of their Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited Amber disposal.
While the Company does not expect to trade assets continues to be the most effective way to secure new assets for the INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 7 Chairmans Letter continued regularly, preferring instead to retain the long-term income found in the Corporate Governance section and terms of generation potential of its holdings, these secondary market references are available on the Companys website.
pricing levels validate the increased popularity and attractions of the asset class in which the Company is invested.
The Audit and Risk Committee has also spent time with the Investment Adviser performing a detailed review of existing and emerging risks affecting the Company.
The results of this have been Portfolio Performance captured where relevant within the Principal Risks and Mitigation The operational performance of the Companys portfolio continues section of this Annual Report.
Of particular note is the current to be excellent.
Significant progress was made during the year in OECD coordinated effort to align certain tax rules with the aim of the ongoing management of the portfolio where we continue to preventing tax base erosion and profit shifting but which may focus on delivering our expected returns, managing our public inherently expose the Company and the sector as a whole to sector customer relationships and enhancing the investments potential unintended consequences.
For example, during the through efficient management and contract variations requested period, the OECD issued a consultation paper setting out its by our public sector clients.
proposals for national legislators to consider best practice rules for the restriction of tax relief for debt interest.
The OECD paper Our control over the operational performance of our investments is specifically seeks feedback as to whether the infrastructure sector a key point of differentiation - other investment vehicles in the should benefit from a carve-out from such proposals.
However, it sector often outsource responsibility for such asset level is currently uncertain to what extent the proposals will be management activity to unrelated third party construction facilities amended or accepted and it remains to be seen the extent to management contractor parties.
However, we believe that strong which they will be adopted by national legislators.
The OECD action asset-level relationships with public sector clients are a key factor is set to conclude in September 2015.
The Board and Investment in both protecting our reputation and safeguarding investment Adviser are actively engaging with the relevant industry bodies and performance.
The Company continues to benefit from our advisors and will continue to monitor and report back to relationship with Amber in this respect, particularly for the majority Shareholders on significant developments as they evolve.
of investments where Amber is responsible for the detailed day-today delivery of management services and relationships with our The other major regulatory change that affected Company in the public sector clients.
Evidence of this is the successful conclusion period was the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund of a number of construction projects, which were finished on Managers Directive AIFMD which came into force.
I am pleased budget and on time, in part because of Ambers oversight of key to report that the Company has notified the Financial Conduct contractors.
Authority in the UK that, as a Guernsey domiciled self-managed Alternative Investment Fund, in accordance with the National The macro economic environment continues to be of relevance to Private Placement Regime, the Company is able to market within our performance.
Long term inflation expectations continue to run the UK.
We hope, over time, that this will also improve the ability at levels above our base case assumptions but short term inflation of the Company to market its shares across the EU although this is rates are low and the prospect of deflation exists in some Eurozone highly dependent on the differing degrees to which various EU countries.
We receive regular enquiries from investors as to how countries facilitate this.
we estimate our portfolio would perform in various inflationary or deflationary scenarios.
To assist shareholders we have provided Investment Adviser some additional sensitivity forecasts focusing on this point in this As noted above, earlier this month, Amber our Investment Adviser report refer page 24.
I am pleased to say we estimate our agreed to the Hunt Companies Hunt, a privately owned US group performance is likely to remain robust in such scenarios.
with similar activities to those of the Amber group of Companies, becoming a 50% shareholder in the holding company of the We are very aware that most of our investors hold our stock with a Investment Adviser with existing director and management view to the long term income that we expect to generate and we shareholders continuing to hold the remaining shares.
continue to focus on improving the certainty and quality of this income as much as we can.
The transaction offers the potential to expand the activities of both the Investment Adviser and the Company into the United States Corporate Governance and Regulation which is widely seen as one of the largest growth markets for The Board is required by the UK Corporate Governance Code to infrastructure investment in the developed world.
The Company commission periodic external assessment of its procedures and believes that this is an exciting and forward looking transaction corporate governance.
The first such formal review took place in with an experienced and well-established partner who benefits 2014 and I am pleased to advise that the Board was found to be from strong links to the public sector in the US.
Only minor improvements were suggested and all have been implemented.
As part of this transaction the Company has been granted a right of first look in similar terms to the right it already enjoys with Amber Two new Board Committees were formed during the period the which will extend to such of Hunts activities in public Investment Committee and the Nominations and Remuneration infrastructure projects which meet the Companys investment Committee.
Previously these functions were performed by the full criteria in the United States.
Board absent the representative of the Investment Adviser as appropriate.
However, the new committees reflect the increased The terms of the transaction between management and Hunt importance the Board believe should be given to the process prohibit any sale of shares by either Hunt or Ambers management governing these matters and to provide additional transparency to for a minimum term of four years and there will be no changes to shareholders.
Further details of all the Boards committees can be management personnel within Amber or the way in which the INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 8 Chairmans Letter continued Investment Adviser and the Company interact.
The transaction is Where new investment opportunities do arise we will continue to subject to FCA approval.
be selective in those acquisitions which we bring into the portfolio to ensure that they bring long-term value to shareholders.
Further Outlook details are provided within the Outlook section of the Strategic The Companys performance in the first few months of 2015 has Report.
continued to offer promise for the future both in terms of the performance of existing investments and new opportunities.
We I thank all shareholders for their support of the Company in 2014 continue to have a high degree of confidence in the existing and look forward to continuing to serve them in 2015. portfolios ability to generate increasing returns for investors in line with published expectations.
We are also encouraged by the number of new opportunities which we see.
While there is undoubtedly increased competition for the types of assets in which the Company invests, we remain confident in the ability of the Company and its Investment Adviser to continue to identify and execute new investments in core markets to strengthen the Companys portfolio further.
Rupert Dorey 25 March 2015 Chairman INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
