Strategic r Strategic r Strategic r Strategic r Overview eport eport eport eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Other information Strategic report Strategic r Strategic report eport 03 Introduction from the Chairman The future for our company is bright.
We have a more efficient operating platform in the UK for our brands, which will support us in meeting the trading challenges presented by all the changes that are happening to our supermarket customer base.
There are finally signs of some green shoots in Ireland and we are confident of continued growth in France, where Fruit Shoot is now well established.
Our core markets provide a cash flow and profit base to fund our brands growth internationally, where again further growth in the USA is a top priority.
Our people Our employees are our key asset and their passion and commitment is pivotal to the success of Britvic.
We have seen a number of people leave the business as a result of the infrastructure changes that we have made.
During this period of uncertainty their commitment has been unwavering and I thank each and every one of them for this.
In recognition of the key role that they play we have continued to encourage employees to participate, where possible, in the share incentive schemes available.
These offer significant rewards for much appreciated hard work and allow our people to share in the success of the business.
The last year has been a year of record profits for Britvic, up 17.6% The board to 158.1m, and earnings per share Last year I highlighted the boards desire to support the company in executing the new strategy and possible changes to the composition up 18.8% to 41.8p.
The board has of the board, as a result of tenures as an independent Non-Executive proposed an increase in the final Director coming to an end.
This year we bid farewell to Michael Shallow who has been with us since flotation in 2005.
His commitment to the dividend of 13.8%, to 14.8p per business has been unwavering and on behalf of the rest of the board share, making a full year dividend I wish him well for the future.
of 20.9p per share, up 13.6% on the This year we have appointed two new Non-Executive Directors to the board.
Ian McHoul has joined us and chairs the Audit committee.
We remain committed Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer of Amec Foster Wheeler plc, a to a progressive dividend policy and FTSE100-listed company, and brings with him a wealth of knowledge plan to pay out 50% of earnings in and experience.
Silvia Lagnado has also joined the board.
Silvias career is one of international marketing where she has been a senior executive dividends in the coming years.
at companies such as Unilever and Bacardi.
Ian and Silvia strengthen the board and bring to Britvic invaluable insight and experience to support the strategy and in particular the international expansion Performance review of the business.
The year was our Chief Executives, Simon Litherland, first full year in I am confident that the strategy being executed by the Executive Team charge.
He, and his new team, have re-invigorated the company and will deliver sustainable profit growth and long-term value for our significantly enhanced the organisations capability to execute.
had identified the degree of change proposed in Simons plan as a challenge for the company to manage.
They swept through in fine The AGM will be held at 11am on Tuesday 27 January 2015 at the style, delivering on the cost savings and supply chain rationalisation offices of Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB and I look ahead of target.
You only realise how far you have gone and what you forward to seeing you there.
have achieved when you look back.
The new Irish team delivered an improved result, and France, in spite of a tough summer, posted record profits.
The Fruit Shoot expansion in the USA, a key part of our growth strategy going forwards, remains on track and our new Indian operation has begun trading.
Gerald Corbett Innovation has always been a key part of Britvics success.
The last Chairman year saw the launch of Robinsons Squashd, a pocket size version of the concentrate.
We also launched a new pack for Teisseire, with a pump, and the new Club Zero no sugar range in Ireland.
Each of these innovations has started well and we are confident of their future success.
