Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management appetite as mandated by the board of Overview of disclosure directors through the board risk and capital Group Risk requirements committee.
Business units are ultimately Management responsible for risks that arise.
Risk disclosures provided in line with the objectives are to: We monitor and control risk exposure requirements of International Financial through Credit, Market, Liquidity, Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Be the custodian of our risk Operational and Legal Risk Reporting Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on management culture teams.
This approach is core to assuming capital required by International Accounting a tolerable risk and reward profi le, helping Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Ensure the business operates us to pursue controlled growth across our Statements IAS 1 are included within this within the board stated risk business.
section of the integrated annual report appetite Group Risk Management operates within On pages 6 to 99 with further Support the long-term an integrated geographical and divisional disclosures provided within the sustainability of the group structure, in line with our management annual fi financial statements by providing an established, approach, ensuring that the appropriate section in volume three.
independent framework processes are used to address all risks for identifying, evaluating, All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs across the group.
Group Risk Management monitoring and mitigating risk on which an audit opinion is expressed on has specialist divisions in the UK, South are marked as audited.
Set, approve and monitor Africa and Australia and smaller risk adherence to risk parameters divisions in other regions to promote sound Information provided in this section of the and limits across the risk management practices.
integrated annual report is prepared on group and ensure they are an Investec DLC consolidated basis i. e. Group Risk Management divisions with implemented and adhered to incorporating the results of Investec plc and international responsibility are locally consistently Investec Limited, unless otherwise stated.
This helps Aggregate and monitor our to ensure that all initiatives and businesses The Risk disclosures comprise Investec exposure across risk classes operate within our defi ned risk parameters Limited and Investec plcs Pillar III and objectives.
Group Risk Management disclosures as required in terms of Coordinate risk management continually seeks new ways to enhance its Regulation 43 of the regulations relating to activities across the techniques.
banks in South Africa and under the Capital organisation, covering all legal Requirements Regulation pertaining to entities and jurisdictions We believe that the risk management banks in the UK.
systems and processes we have in place Give the boards reasonable are adequate to support the groups The group also publishes Pillar III and other assurance that the risks we strategy as explained on page 12 in volume risk information for its silo entity holding are exposed to are identifi ed one and allow the group to operate within companies and its signifi cant banking and, to the best extent its risk appetite tolerance as set out on subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis.
This possible, managed and page 9. information is contained in the respective controlled annual fi financial statements for those This volume of our integrated annual report, Run appropriate risk respective entities.
explains in detail our approach to managing committees, as mandated by our business within our risk appetite the board.
tolerance, across all main aspects of risk.
Statement from the A summary of the year in chairman of the review from a risk perspective 01 board risk and capital The group remained within the majority of its risk appetite limits targets across the committee various risk disciplines.
Our risk appetite framework as set out on page9 in volume Philosophy and approach to one continues to be assessed in light of risk management prevailing market conditions and group Our comprehensive risk management strategy.
process involves identifying, quantifying, Investec has continued to maintain a sound managing and mitigating the risks balance sheet with low gearing, and a associated with each of our businesses.
This has been Risk awareness, control and compliance supported by the following key operating are embedded in all our day-to-day fundamentals during the year in review: activities.
Group Risk Management Intimate involvement of executive monitors, manages and reports on our management ensuring stringent risks to ensure it is within the stated risk management of risk, liquidity and capital 4 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Strong risk and capital management come from professional mortgages, of our liability base.
We continue to culture embedded into our daycommercial rent producing property maintain a low reliance on interbank to-day activities and values.
We seek transactions, asset fi finance, fund wholesale funding to fund core lending to achieve an appropriate balance fi finance and power and infrastructure asset growth between risk and reward in our fi finance.
These asset classes have Continued increase in retail customer business, taking cognisance of all historically reported low default ratios deposits and a sound retail franchise stakeholders interests and provide good gross asset margins Healthy capital and leverage ratios: we Reward programmes that align Impairments on loans and advances have always held capital in excess of directors and employees interests decreased from 251.0 million to regulatory requirements and we intend with those of stakeholders, ensuring 166.2 million.
Impairments in the UK to perpetuate this philosophy.
All our that these programmes promote and South Africa were much improved banking subsidiaries meet current effective risk management.
Annual whilst Australia reported an increase.
Investec Limited and bonuses are closely linked to business Since 31 March 2013 gross defaults Investec plc should comfortably achieve performance, determined largely by have improved from 792.2 million a common equity tier 1 ratio above realised economic value-added profi t to 658.7 million.
The percentage of 10% by March 2016 performance against pre-determined default loans net of impairments but targets above a risk and capital before taking collateral into account Geographical and operational diversity weighted return.
This model has been to core loans and advances amounted with a high level of recurring income consistently applied within the group in to 2.30% 2013: 2.73%.
The ratio amounting to 70.7% of total operating excess of 15 years of collateral to default loans net of income which continues to support impairments remains satisfactory at sustainability of operating profi t Credit and counterparty exposures to 1.27 times 2013: 1.26 times a select target market: our risk appetite We continue to spend much time continues to favour lower risk, incomeLimited exposure to structured credit: and effort focusing on operational, based lending, with credit risk taken representing approximately 1.8% of reputational, conduct, recovery over a short to medium term.
Exposure total assets and resolution risks.
We need to is taken against defi ned target clients assess the impact of cyber risk in Limited private client and corporate displaying sound fi financial strength and greater detail, particularly given our client exposures to peripheral Europe integrity, a core competency and an focus on enhancing and expanding amounting to approximately 0.6% of established track record our digitilisation strategies.
In addition the group has forthcoming year, we will also increase The groups core loan book has grown certain branch related and subsidiary our focus on stress testing and have moderately in home currencies.
Strong activities in Ireland, with total assets appointed an external adviser to assist growth in private client residential representing 2.0% of group assets in this regard.
The key is to understand mortgages across the board and A low gearing ratio of 10.3 times potential threats to our sustainability good momentum in the corporate and profi tability and thus a number of sector in South Africa, have been A low level of net assets and liabilities risk scenarios will be developed and partially offset by redemptions in the exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair assessed.
corporate book in the UK and in the value accounting: with level 3 assets lending collateralised by property book amounting to 4.4% of total assets Conclusion in SouthAfrica.
The legacy portfolios The current regulatory and economic notably in the UK continue to be Low equity and investment risk environment continues to prove managed down and we are starting exposure with total investments challenging to our business, however, we to see some opportunities in exiting comprising 3.6% of total assets.
are comfortable that we have robust risk deals in this book.
However, we remain Our investment portfolios in the UK, management processes and systems in cautiously optimistic in this regard HongKong and South Africa continue place which provide a strong foundation and our view is that the legacy book to perform well 01 to the board and the business to manage excluding Kensington, which we are Modest proprietary market risk within and mitigate risks within our risk appetite looking to potentially sell will still take our trading portfolio.
Value at risk and tolerance framework.
three to fi five years to wind down as stress testing scenarios remain at explained in detail in volume one on Signed on behalf of the board prudent levels pages 76 and 77.
Potential losses that could arise in our Our core loan book remains trading book portfolio when stress diversifi ed with commercial rent tested under extreme market conditions producing property loans comprising i. e. per extreme value theory amount approximately 18% of the book, other to less than 0.2% of total operating lending collateralised by property 8%, Stephen Koseff income HNW and private client lending 40% and corporate lending 34% with most Chief executive offi cer and chairman of the A high level of readily available, high industry concentrations well below board risk and capital committee quality liquid assets: cash and near 5%.
We anticipate that future growth cash of 9.1 billion, representing 33.0% in our core loan portfolios will largely 11 June 2014 Investec integrated annual report 2014 5
