Chairmans letter A busy year of fuelling growth Financial performance In my last statement as Chairman, In 2014, although the macroeconomic environment improved I am pleased to report that 2014 has in the UK and the US, and equity markets were generally been a busy year for IP Group and positive, AIM, where approximately 40% of the Groups portfolio companies by value are quoted, lost 17.5% of its value.
March 2015s 128m equity funding When considered against this backdrop, the Groups financial will help to fuel the next phase in performance in 2014 was satisfactory although much lower than the Groups development.
Net assets, excluding intangibles and the admission to AIM in 2003, the year Oxford Equity Rights asset, increased to 451.3m 2013: 315.5m while the Group recorded an adjusted profit before tax of 16.2m I first became Chairman, the Group excluding the 6.7m reduction in the value of the Oxford Equity has experienced significant growth, Rights Asset and amortisation of intangible assets 2013: 77.6m with a tenfold increase in its market profit: 5.0m reduction in the value of the Oxford Equity Rights Asset.
As highlighted capitalisation to over 1bn today.
in my 2013 statement, shareholders should continue to consider Dr Bruce Smith Chairman IP Group as a long-term business and therefore profits and cash realisations will fluctuate from year to year.
Organisational structure IP Groups mission is to evolve great ideas into world-changing The operational integration of Fusion IP plc has increased the businesses.
Until 2013, the Group concentrated solely on Groups size and depth of expertise.
In order to support this and opportunities in the UK.
However, during that year, it established the Groups continued growth, the two-tiered governance and a presence in the US - a country that the Board believes offers management structure comprising the Group Board and the a rich source of accessible world-class IP.
The Group now has Executive Committee has been formalised.
In order to further pilot commercialisation agreements with three US Ivy League deepen the Groups sectoral knowledge and capability, the core universities and announced its first spin-out from the University opportunity evaluation and business building team has now of Pennsylvania in December.
been formally divided into four specialist divisions Biotech, Cleantech, Healthcare and Technology.
The Board believes that The Groups UK operations have also seen significant this new Group structure allows the business to operate more developments during 2014.
In March, the Group acquired effectively and to the benefit of the Group, and its partners and Fusion IP plc, a complementary business in which the Group stakeholders as a whole.
had held a strategic stake since 2009.
The acquisition has created a Group with an enlarged specialised team and greater breadth of coverage, enabling deeper access to a pool of intellectual property while also allowing the Group to improve the service offering to existing and potential research institutions.
Looking at the UK business overall, on balance I 2014: Year in Review consider that the Groups portfolio companies are progressing well and many have achieved significant milestones during the year.
Of these, I particularly highlight Modern Biosciences January February March April Oxford Nanopore Group completes Acquisition of Pilot deal agreed collaboration with Johnson & Johnson Innovation Centre and Technologies Ltd 100m Fusion IP plc.
with Princeton Janssen Biotech, Inc. MinION Access fundraising.
Xeros Technology Programme Actual Group plc IPO oversubscribed.
Experience plc and admission Group extends admitted to AIM.
agreement with University of Manchester.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 06 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Board changes As I announced in my 2013 statement, Professor Lynn Gladden joined the Board in 2014 and brings with her an impressive background in academia and industry.
I was also pleased to welcome David Baynes and Doug Liversidge - who joined the Group from Fusion IP plc - to the Board as Chief Operating Officer and Non-executive Director respectively.
David and Doug bring with them a wealth of knowledge and expertise and, along with Lynn, have already made a significant contribution to the Company.
During the year, Charles Winward stepped down from the Groups Board as an Executive Director to pursue other opportunities and Francis Carpenter stepped down as Building a sustainable business Non-executive Director of the Group following the completion Building a sustainable, viable business is fundamental to the of his second three-year term in office.
It was announced in Groups future success and we continually strive to run our October that I would be stepping down as Non-executive operations, and respond to issues, in a responsible manner with Chairman and a director of the Company once a suitably consideration for all our stakeholders needs.
The Group is also qualified and experienced successor had been appointed.
committed to minimising the business environmental impact as As announced today, after a rigorous process, the Board has well as having a positive influence on the communities where approved the Nominations Committees recommendation to it operates.
Major portfolio themes for IP Group have included, appoint Mike Humphrey as the Groups Non-executive Chairman.
and will continue to include, business opportunities focused Mike, currently the Groups Senior Independent Director and on developing clean technology, environmental improvement Chair of its Remuneration Committee, will assume office with and resource efficiency.
Sustainable and ethical practices are effect from the end of the Groups Board meeting to be held integrated into our business model and will continue to underpin on 24 March 2015.
The Board considered Mikes experience how the Group operates and does business with its partners.
internationally and with institutional investors, and in leading Since I joined the Board in 2002, and first became Chairman in and growing a major corporation built on innovation into the 2003 and again in 2007, the Group has undergone a period of FTSE100, made him an exceptional candidate for the role.
The rapid growth and transformation and I am very proud of what role of Senior Independent Director will be assumed by Doug has been achieved by the team.
Together we have created Liversidge and Jonathan Brooks will become Chairman of the a business that today has a large specialised team, access to Remuneration Committee with effect from this same date.
The intellectual property from 15 of the UKs, and three of the USs, Group intends to appoint a further Non-executive Director and top research universities and a portfolio with a value of 350m will update shareholders to this end in due course.
This is my last Chairmans Our stakeholders statement and I would like to wish IP Groups Board, staff, The success of the Group relies on the hard work and dedication partners and shareholders every success for the future.
of many people and, over the twelve years I have served on the Dr Bruce Smith Board of IP Group, it has been my privilege to meet and work Chairman with so many talented teams.
I would like to extend my sincere 9 March 2015 thanks to the Board, IP Groups staff, its academic partners and the management teams of its portfolio companies for these efforts.
I would also like to express my sincere gratitude to the Companys shareholders and limited partners for their support over the years.
June July August September October November December Diurnal Limited Ceres Power MedaPhor Retroscreen Getech Group Ceres Power Modern Genomics Group reports positive Holdings plc Group plc IPO Virology plc announces signs joint Biosciences Limited raises completes first raises 20m.
and admission Group plc largest ever development plc agrees 10.3m.
single new agreement deal worth a US University Group enters contract win with a leading up to 176m University of Oxford Diurnal Limited initiative with worth $5m.
US-based power systems & Johnson Technologies FedIMPACT.
