STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am very pleased to be able to report that JLT has once again delivered a strong set of results for the year.
Geoffrey Howe I am very pleased to be able to report that diluted earnings per share of 56.1 pence JLT has once again delivered a strong set of 2013: 54.5 pence, an increase of 3%.
Full details of the Groups performance are set Total revenue These results were achieved despite a out on pages 28 to 36. marked decline in both the insurance and reinsurance rating environment and some INCREASED DIVIDEND significant macro-economic headwinds.
It is particularly pleasing to see the continuation of I am pleased to report that the Directors have 13% our organic revenue growth, reflecting the recommended an increased final dividend of substantial amounts of new business won 18.3 pence per share 2013: 17.1 pence for Increase on 2013 during the year.
The investments we have the year to 31st December 2014 which will made in the business over recent years have be paid on 6th May 2015 to shareholders on been a key factor in our continued success.
This brings the total dividend for the year to A STRONG PERFORMANCE 18.3p 28.9 pence per share, an overall increase of 6.3% and is the sixth consecutive year that Total revenue increased by 13% to 1,104.1 Final dividend JLT has paid an increased dividend.
million, or 18% at constant rates of exchange.
Underlying profit before tax In the last six years we have delivered a Total increased by 3% to 183.0 million, while Shareholder Return of 152% as illustrated in reported profit before tax was 159.7 million, the chart on page 13. an increase of 3%.
This is after taking account of 5.2 million of net expense CORPORATE ACTIVITY attributable to the establishment of our HIGHLIGHTS Specialty capability in the US.
Excluding this net expense, underlying profit before tax In 2014 work successfully continued to increased by 6% to 188.2 million.
integrate the Towers Watson Re business into JLT Re.
The Group also decided to Net exceptional items of 23.3 million in establish a Specialty insurance broking the year were mainly attributable to the presence in the US through the creation of cost of our Business Transformation JLT Specialty Insurance Services Inc. Programme and acquisition, integration and restructuring costs.
While this investment will have a short term impact on earnings, I am confident that it will JLTs trading profit margin decreased from create significant value for our shareholders 18.9% to 17.8%, primarily reflecting an 11.1 over the longer term, given the quality of the million adverse foreign exchange movement team we have assembled and the demand in the year and the US investment costs.
from clients, insurers and market Excluding these two items, the trading professionals for JLT to bring its unique margin would have been 18.6%.
offering to what remains the worlds largest Reported diluted earnings per share were 47.8 insurance market.
pence 2013: 46.4 pence, with underlying 12 12 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Performance graph Total shareholder return from 2008 to 2014 The chart shows the Total 250 Shareholder Return TSR of JLT in the six year period to 31st December 200 2014 against the TSR of the FTSE 150 100, 250 and All Share Indices.
TSR 100 refers to share price growth and assumes dividends are reinvested 50 over the relevant period.
0 -50 -100 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc FTSE 100 Index FTSE 250 Index FTSE All Share Index Source: Datastream The Group also announced the merger of The Directors Report on pages 67 to 73 July 2005.
The role of Senior Independent JLT Specialty and Lloyd & Partners to create sets out JLTs position with regard to Director passed to Richard Harvey.
a single Specialty business of scale and compliance with the UK Corporate The Board conducted a thorough search, distinctive capability.
This merger was Governance Code 2012.
This includes the utilising the services of a search agency as effective from 1st January 2015.
The output from an internal review of the Boards well as its own knowledge of the market, to consequential changes in the senior effectiveness that was run in Q4 2014 and identify a new Non-Executive Director.
The management team are outlined below.
reviewed in early 2015 which drew some search concluded with the appointment, on positive overall conclusions.
At the close of the year we completed the 1st October 2014, of Nicholas Walsh who acquisition of Hayward Aviation which will The detailed operation of the Board is brings a significant amount of insurance provide a platform for international growth in described on page 68 with the Audit & Risk company expertise to the Group as well as the General Aviation market.
Committee Report included on pages 52 to specialist knowledge of the US insurance 55. market, which will be very valuable to the In February 2015, we announced that the Group given the significant investments we JLTs management incentive schemes have shareholders of Milestone, the holding are making in the US.
been designed to encourage long term company of Siaci Saint Honor Siaci, our decision making and align managements Mark Drummond Brady was appointed French associate, had received an offer to interests closely with those of shareholders.
Deputy Group CEO on 1st September 2014 sell their shares to a private equity investor to The Remuneration Report is set out on to provide additional leadership support fund the next phase of Siacis development.
pages 56 to 66. within the Group, which has increased in As part of this transaction, JLT would dispose size, complexity and international reach in of its stake in Siaci for net cash proceeds of During the course of 2014 we executed a recent years.
Mark also sits on the Board of around 82 million.
The transaction is Relationship Agreement with our major the new US Specialty business.
expected to complete in May 2015. shareholder, Jardine Matheson, in accordance with the revised Listing Rules.
On 1st September 2014 Mike Reynolds took Siaci and JLT have a deep and longstanding These new rules require shareholders with a on the role of Global CEO of JLT Re, building Specialty focused trading relationship that 30% or more shareholding to comply with on his previous experience in senior roles in a goes back over twenty years.
Siaci remains certain independence provisions set out in a major reinsurance broker and global reinsurer.
the exclusive partner of the JLT International written and legally binding agreement.
He retains his position as Group Finance Network in France.
The strength and support of Jardine Director and will remain on the Board until his Matheson has been, and will continue to be, successor is appointed.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE an important factor in the success of JLT.
Senior Management developments At JLT, we recognise the importance of BOARD AND SENIOR From 1st April 2014 Mike Methley became effective corporate governance throughout MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENTS Chairman of JLT Canada and JLT Insurance the organisation and the role that the Board Management.
Combining these roles with his plays in setting the tone for the Group.
Over the past year and into the early part of existing role as CEO of the Groups Latin We therefore seek to ensure that the Board 2015 there have been a number of American businesses provides a significant has the right balance of knowledge and developments at the Board and senior opportunity to further develop collaboration experience among its Directors, supported management level.
and capabilities across the Americas.
by a strong and effective governance system, to drive sustainable business Board developments At the same time Bala Viswanathan was performance for the benefit of all of our appointed Group Chief Operating Officer, As reported last year, Nick MacAndrew stakeholders.
joined the GEC and relocated from Mumbai retired from the Board at the conclusion of to London.
Balas operational skills in the 2014 AGM, having been a Director since 13 Shareholder Return % Asia 3,108 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED developing and running the Groups Employees by geographical location Knowledge Centre in Mumbai place him in a unique position to continue to drive forward the Groups operational efficiency initiatives.
Rest of World 99 On 4th August 2014, Keith Johnson joined Europe JLT as our new Group General Counsel and 195 became a member of the GEC.
Australia & Following the announcement, on 1st UK New Zealand September 2014, of the merger of JLT 4,108 929 Specialty and Lloyd & Partners, Martin Hiller moved from his role as CEO of JLT Specialty 10,095 Americas to take up a new challenge as CEO of our 1,656 businesses in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He also became responsible for our Managing General Agency MGA businesses worldwide and was appointed Chairman of Thistle Insurance Services.
As at 31st December 2014 On the same day, John Lloyd was appointed CEO of JLT Specialty in addition to his existing role as CEO of Lloyd & Although the Company has not utilised the Partners and Adrian Girling, the Chairman of OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY authority to buy back shares since 2008, the JLT Specialty also became Chairman of JLT has an active Corporate Responsibility Board believes it would be in the interests of Lloyd & Partners.
programme, working with charities in the UK all shareholders for the company to continue As at 1st January 2015, following the and in other countries around the world to have the right to purchase its own shares merger of JLT Specialty and Lloyd & where we have a presence to improve in the market in appropriate circumstances.
Partners, John Lloyd became CEO and educational standards, support the We would only exercise this authority if we Adrian Girling became Chairman of the disadvantaged and help people lead safer believe that it is in the best interests of combined business.
We are also shareholders and would result in an committed to managing our environmental Having played an instrumental role in the improvement in earnings per share.
development of our global reinsurance broking capabilities and in the Towers OUR PEOPLE More information can be found in our Watson Re acquisition, Alastair Speare-Cole Corporate Responsibility report on pages On behalf of the Board, I would like to decided to leave the Group at the end of 43 to 47. thank all of our colleagues at JLT for 2014 to pursue other opportunities.
their continued hard work and dedication, OUTLOOK contributing to a strong set of results SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY in 2014.
Despite a challenging insurance rating We will, as in previous years, be seeking environment, we are confident in JLTs I would in particular like to thank all of those renewal of our standing share buy-back revenue growth momentum and in our who have been involved in the significant authority at the forthcoming Annual General strategy of continuing to invest to deliver and ongoing effort to integrate the Towers Meeting of up to a maximum of 10% of the sustainable long term earnings growth.
Watson Re and JLT reinsurance broking Companys issued capital.
As was the case businesses to form JLT Re, the merger of last year, we will not be seeking shareholder JLT Specialty and Lloyd & Partners and to approval for a Rule 9 dispensation in launch and support our new Specialty relation to this authority pursuant to the business in the US.
I would also like to welcome all our new This means that in the event that the colleagues who have joined JLT during the directors were to initiate a buy-back, in order year.
You will find that JLT is a dynamic place to avoid triggering a mandatory offer to work, with a unique culture centred obligation upon Jardine Matheson Holdings around entrepreneurial agility, intellectual Limited JMH under Rule 37 of the rigour and collaboration.
We are committed Takeover Code, JMH would need to to investing in all our people to help them Geoffrey Howe participate in any such buy-back so that its serve clients, develop their own careers and Chairman overall percentage holding which at 6th protect their well-being.
10th March 2015 March 2015 was 40.16% did not increase More information can be found in the section following the buy-back.
on Our people and our culture on page 7.
