Chairmans Statement Glasgow Schools I am pleased to report another strong year of performance within our Portfolio, achieving growth of 9.22% on the rebased valuation, signicantly ahead of the level of growth that would arise from the adjusted unwind of the discount rate.
Reective of the strong performance of the Portfolio and the Company in 2014, we are proud to announce another increase in the dividend that is ahead of ination.
Avon and Somerset Courts Paul Lester CBE Chairman Introduction I am pleased to report another strong year of performance within our Portfolio, achieving growth of 9.22% on the rebased valuation, signicantly ahead of the level 3 of growth that would arise from the adjusted unwind of the discount rate.
Dividends We announce today a dividend of 3.375 pence per share for the second half of 2014, an increase of 3.85% on the previous dividend of 3.25 pence per share.
The further progression on the dividend, providing our shareholders with a yield growth above UK RPI for the third year running, results in a total dividend of 6.625 pence per share in 2014.
Performance Since launch in November 2010, the Net Asset Value NAV has increased by over 225%, including acquisitions, and JLIF has delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR of 49.50%.
Our share price has grown steadily over the past four years, reaching 122.8 pence by the end of 2014, resulting in a market capitalisation of nearly 1 billion.
We have consistently exceeded our target IRR range of 7-8%.
The IRR since launch to the end of 2014 was 10.40%.
We have once again exceeded the level of growth from the Portfolio that would arise from the adjusted unwind of the discount rate.
This is the fifth set of year end results since launch in which the Company has outperformed by this measure.
In 2014, we expected the Portfolio to grow by 7.81% in the year, by the adjusted unwind of the discount rate.
We delivered growth of 9.22%, representing an outperformance of 1.41%.
Of this, 0.82% was attributable to our active approach to portfolio management, while the remaining 0.59% was derived from changes in macroeconomic assumptions.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 05.
We identied and executed value enhancements that either wholly-owned subsidiary of John Laing plc, which listed on the increased revenues or decreased costs, whilst continuing to London Stock Exchange on 17 February 2015.
The Investment provide the high level of service expected by our public sector Advisory Agreement and the two First Offer Agreements remain clients.
During 2014 this included cost savings resulting from in place: there has been no impact as a result of the otation.
careful and prudent management of lifecycle allowances, and other The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30am, London time, efficiencies relating to insurance and SPV management costs.
on 8 May 2015 at the ofces of Heritage International Fund Over the last three years we have contributed significant value to Managers in Guernsey.
The table below shows the underlying portfolio 4 growth, growth from the adjusted unwind of the discount rate, Investment and outperformance for the past three years.
We successfully invested 50.8 million in seven new investments during the year.
This comprised three additional stakes in existing 2012 2013 2014 projects and four stakes in new projects, increasing the number Underlying portfolio growth 8.49% 7.24% 9.22% of projects in our Portfolio to 56.
Adjusted unwind of the discount rate 7.20% 6.38% 7.81% In January 2015, we completed an accretive acquisition of Wates Outperformance 1.29% 0.86% 1.41% Construction Limiteds shareholding in Kirklees Social Housing project, following purchase of the initial holding from John Laing the previous month, demonstrating our continued appetite for Following a review of the valuation by the Board and an follow-on acquisitions that represent shareholder value.
independent leading accountancy rm, we reduced the weighted We also undertook a small number of bids, two of which average discount rate WADR used in the valuation of our progressed through to final pricing.
These were a portfolio of UK Portfolio at the end of December by 0.24% to 7.94%.
This reects street lighting assets and the Royal North Shore Hospital in Sydney, the market trend for valuations, particularly in the UK.
JLIF was unsuccessful with respect to both these two outperformance mentioned above is over and above the value opportunities as they exchanged on a price and commercial basis created through the reduction in the WADR.
that were not considered to offer best value to our shareholders.
Gearing In participating in these processes, significant credibility, presence and relationships have been built and JLIF has already been We continue to operate without any structural gearing and our corporate credit facility remains undrawn at the time of writing approached by other vendors with Australian assets.
We aim to continue to identify opportunities in Australia, noting that JLIFs First this statement.
Offer Agreements with John Laing include assets located there.
Corporate Governance In December 2014, we made a non-binding offer for its portfolio As mentioned last year, the Company is required to comply with of PPP assets, subject to due diligence, to the board of Balfour the EU-wide Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Beatty plc for approximately 1 billion in cash that was AIFMD and JLIF remains a self-managed non-EU Alternative subsequently declined.
We continue to comply with all of the Throughout 2014 we maintained a disciplined approach towards reporting requirements with respect to AIFMD: including making new investments and focused selectively on acquisitions quarterly reporting in the jurisdictions in which we market JLIF, where we identied unique opportunities for generating value and disclosures contained within the annual and interim reports.
We believe that the expertise and knowledge The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of of our specialist management team will ensure JLIF continues the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, as revised in 2010, AIC to select the right assets and to manage them to achieve Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for optimal performance.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of Outlook the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and Our opinion is that the secondary market in the UK is showing recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the signs of reaching a valuation peak, with evidence of some Company.
More information can be found on page 36 of this report, investors chasing prices in order to invest.
JLIF has the benefit under the Corporate Governance section.
The Company intends of the First Offer Agreements with John Laing which continue to to continue complying with the AIC Code in this financial year.
provide a pipeline of assets for growth, whilst avoiding potential aborted bid costs.
We maintain an efficient cash position by not Board & AGM holding shareholder funds on our balance sheet for any length I am very pleased that Mrs Helen Green agreed to join the Board of time, thereby reducing any cash drag.
I would also like to recognise the We are optimistic about the outlook for JLIF in 2015 and will regular and meaningful contribution of the Board.
We have met a continue to develop our presence in overseas markets, namely number of times outside of the regular scheduled meetings during North America, Australia and Continental Europe where we have the year to support the execution of the Companys business plan established relationships and a pipeline of assets for consideration.
and I offer my thanks to the Board for their continued commitment.
We remain focussed on delivering good levels of growth from The next external assessment of the Boards performance is our existing Portfolio, whilst further growing the Portfolio with expected to start in November 2015. new value generating investments.
During 2014, JLIF was aware of a potential change of ownership of the John Laing Group plc, and appointed Sum Finance to Paul Lester CBE provide ongoing strategic advice to the Company.
Sum Finance Chairman is wholly owned by Ian Ruddock.
The Investment Adviser to JLIF 24 March 2015 is John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, which is a 3 After adjusting for the timing of acquisitions and distributions in the year.
4 After adjusting for investments, distributions, foreign exchange movements and discount rate movements.
