Strategic Report Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on another strong year for shareholders of JPMorgan American Investment Trust.
I would like to remind shareholders of the stock split which we put in place at the Annual General Meeting in 2014, which means that for every one share you held on 7th May 2014, you now hold five.
This has, we think, increased liquidity and therefore been a benefit, but it does make comparatives a little difficult.
Last year, the US market, as measured by the S&P 500 total return Index in sterling terms, provided a return of 20.4%.
Shareholders in JPMorgan American benefited in 2014 from the strength of the US dollar against sterling, as the S&Ps dollar return was 13.7%.
This return was also by some way the strongest for sterling investors among major developed equity markets as well as compared with those from emerging markets.
Sterling investors in the equity markets of the UK, Europe, Japan and emerging markets, as measured by the leading market indices in each case, received a total return of 1.0%, 2.1%, 1.7% and 4.3% respectively.
Of course, most of us were surprised by bond market returns, with the longer end of the UK bond market providing a return of over 25% and holders of 30 year US Treasuries at the start of the year earning a total dollar return for 2014 in excess of 29%.
By the end of 2014 and despite the ending of quantitative easing in October, the US 10 year bond yielded approximately 2.2%, taking the yield back to levels last seen in mid 2013 when the US recovery was far less secure and the effects of monetary policy provided far greater support for the bond market.
Our investment manager, Garrett Fish, reports in more detail on developments in the US corporate sector and in equity markets in his report.
I would just like to note Apples fourth quarter profit of US$18 billion, apparently the largest quarterly profit ever made by a private sector company.
Apple is the Companys largest holding at 5.7% of total assets less current liabilities.
The strength and dynamism of the US corporate sector, on which we commented last year, has some extraordinary effects.
Dividend growth has been strong in 2014 and buy backs have also returned cash to shareholders.
The US has also seen a persistent pattern of innovation and commercial development in sectors such as technology and bio technology which have led to very rapid corporate growth for some companies.
Whilst they are somewhat backward looking measures, it is interesting to note the sector allocations of the S&P 500, compared with the FTSE All-Share at the year end.
As the chart below shows, the S&P 500 has larger allocations than its UK counterpart to sectors with a record of strong growth and innovation such as Information Technology, Health Care, Consumer Discretionary and Industrials whereas the UK Index has higher exposures to Financials, Consumer Staples, Energy, Telecoms and Utilities where growth prospects perhaps appear more muted.
It is worth noting in passing that some of the share and corporate governance structures in the US are different from those we see in the UK and to UK investors may appear on occasion surprising.
Perhaps the apparent abundance of available capital in the US for technology and other 2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 innovative companies is both a source of corporate success and a reason for a different approach to shareholder rights.
Activism is a significant feature of US corporate life and within your Companys portfolio.
US investors appear however, less averse to dual voting structures, for example.
Sector Weightings Compared: JPM American v S&P 500 v FTSE All-Share 25 20 15 10 5 0 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management.
JPM American S&P 500 FTSE All-Share Relative Performance of the Company Your Companys NAV taking income into account and valuing our debt at its redemption price rather than at market value provided a return just slightly ahead of our benchmark.
This was no mean feat in 2014 when most US equity fund managers underperformed.
Apple itself contributed to outperformance as 5.7% of the portfolio was held in Apple shares compared to a benchmark weighting of approximately 4.4%.
The large capitalisation portfolio as a whole outperformed and although the small capitalisation portfolio underperformed your investment manager reduced the overall exposure to small companies to 3% at the beginning of the year.
The further reasons for outperformance are detailed in the investment managers report.
Over the longer term, the investment manager has a very strong record: since 1st January 2003 when Garrett Fish took over full responsibility for the management JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3 Information Technonogy Financials Health Care Consumer Discretionary Consumer Staples Industrials Energy Telecom Services Utilities Materials Other investment cos Sector Weighting % Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued of the Company, the NAV on a capital return basis has risen by 229.9%, compared with the relevant benchmark which returned 195.9%: the benchmark representing a market which is regarded as perhaps the most difficult to outperform.
The three and five year figures cover the most dramatic rise in the market, and now leave out the difficulties of 2008, when Garrett Fish outperformed significantly in the market crash.
The NAV underperformed slightly in the four years following that but has outperformed in 2013 and 2014 we put in place our current gearing approach in 2012.
Performance before 2008 was also good, and looking at peers it is worth noting that the performance of the NAV of the trust, over the 10 years to 31st December 2014, is in the top 4% of the 256 US large capitalisation blend funds in the relevant Morningstar universe.
Your Companys share price return is also ahead of the benchmarket index, over the last one, three, five and 10 years.
The Companys shares traded at a significant discount in the past, and the Board showed its commitment to shareholder value by buying back over 30% of the outstanding equity between January 2002 and December 2007.
As we have said before, having issued new shares at a small premium in recent years, we are aware of our responsibilities not to let the discount widen significantly.
Gearing Shareholders may remember that we identified in 2012 that the variation of gearing on a tactical basis by the investment manager was not really adding any value.
As a consequence, we established a normal level of gearing of around 10%, with the investment manager authorised to vary this level by plus or minus 2%.
The investment manager is further permitted, if he feels that there is a real risk of loss of capital, to hold cash up to 5% of net assets although of course, predicting such events is not straightforward and may even be impossible.
This year, we spent some time considering our liability structure given these guidelines.
We have an existing 6.875% sterling debenture, which redeems in 2018.
This does provide certainty of funding, but is otherwise inflexible, expensive, and requires the hedging of the equivalent amount of assets to avoid a currency mismatch.
Over the last two years, we have borrowed additional sums on short term revolving credit facilities which have allowed greater flexibility of drawdown, in both amounts and currency and at relatively low total costs.
In extremis, the undrawn amounts of these facilities could be withdrawn.
Our criteria for the liability structure have included transparency, cost, flexibility and diversification of funding source.
We have therefore now established a 35 million two year credit facility with ING Bank, which can be drawn down in dollars.
This means that we have debt repayment points of December 2016 and June 2018 and a mix of fixed and floating interest payments.
We continue to review our arrangements in this area.
For full details of the terms of these facilities please refer to page 60.
4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Gearing level 140 130 120 110 100 90 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Source: JPMAM Potential Gearing level.
Dividend Overall income from the portfolio increased by some 42.5% in dollar terms over the period.
However, these dividends are translated at the time of receipt, and for much of the year sterling was relatively strong, the sterling increase is lower at 35.5%.
You may have noticed that sterling was weaker at the end of the year than at the beginning, but there was quite a long period of strength during the year.
Several structural factors contributed to this growth in income.
These included the greater use of gearing in the year and the income earned on the proceeds of shares issued in the year which your investment manager estimates added approximately 7% and 5% respectively to the income earned in the year.
Income was also enhanced by investing a larger proportion of the Companys assets in the relatively higher yielding large-cap element of the portfolio at the expense of the lower yielding smaller companies portfolio.
However, the most significant contributor to the revenue received in the year was a significant increase in the dividends paid by the companies in which we are invested.
Notable dividend increases among our larger positions came from Microsoft, ExxonMobil, Wells Fargo and Northrup Grumann, all of which produced dividend increases in excess of 10%.
We also saw several dividend rises in excess of 50% from a number of smaller holdings in the portfolio such as Suntrust, Morgan Stanley and Hartford Financial.
The Company paid an interim dividend in respect of the 2014 financial year of 1.0 pence per share on 8th October 2014.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 2.25 pence per share will be paid on 15th May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 17th April 2015, making a total of 3.25 pence per share.
Given the sub-division of shares mentioned below, this represents an increase of 20.4% on last years distribution of 2.7 pence per share adjusting for the stock split.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued After the payment of the proposed final dividend, we will have a balance in the revenue reserves of 11.8 million equivalent to 4.2 pence per share or 1.3 times the current dividend.
It is the intention that such reserves be used to support dividend payments when corporate payouts are less healthy, or if there are other fluctuations in the revenue account which we assess to be temporary.
Share Price and premium discount Your Companys share price return was 22.6% for the year.
Compared to net asset value taking debt at fair value, the shares have traded at a premium for most of the year.
Discount Premium level 5 4 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Source: Datastream Discount Premium level calculated with debt at fair value and including income.
The Company again issued stock over the year: a total of 12,815,000 shares adjusted for the stock split, or 4.8% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year raising 31.2 million.
We continue to issue shares at a premium to estimated cum income with debt at fair net asset value, which has added approximately 0.6 pence to the net asset value calculated on that basis during the year and has not affected NAV measured with debt taken at par.
Since the year end the Company has issued a further 600,000 shares, or another 0.21% of the issued share capital in January 2015.
The Board continues to believe that expanding the trust has benefits to its existing shareholders in terms of increased liquidity and lower costs per share, although we do not intend aggressively to pursue growth for its own sake.
We are again asking for shareholder permission to continue to issue shares on the same basis, where Directors are confident of sustainable market demand.
We are putting the relevant resolutions to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May, where the Board is seeking permission to issue up to 10% of its issued share capital at prices in excess of the estimated NAV including income with the value of our debt deducted at market prices.
As I indicated above, and as we have stated in previous years, the Company has demonstrated its willingness to buy shares back when the shares stand at anything 6 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 more than a small discount.
Between 2002 and 2007 over 30% of the outstanding share capital was repurchased.
The Board remains aware of its responsibility not to let the discount widen significantly and therefore the Company will again be asking shareholders to approve the relevant share buyback resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
I have confirmed this information in my last two statements, but its importance means it is worth reiterating again.
You will have also seen us put this into action in March 2015 when the Company started to trade on a discount and we have now bought back 871,032 shares, which are held in Treasury.
Five for One Sub-division of the Companys Share Capital Following approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting held in May 2014, the Companys shares were sub-divided into five ordinary shares for every one share held.
That means for every one share you held previously, you now hold five.
This sub-division took effect on 8th May 2014.
The share split did not affect the overall value of your holding in the Company as the reduction in the price per share was offset by a commensurate increase in the number of shares you hold in the Company.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from North American investments by out-performance of the Companys benchmark, which is the S&P 500 Index with both net asset value and benchmark measured in sterling total return terms.
The Board has once again reviewed carefully and robustly the capabilities of the investment manager in order to assess whether JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF should remain the Manager of the Companys assets.
Directors meet with the investment managers of both the large and small capitalisation portfolio and the investment company team in London, and have conversations over the teleconference system.
In 2014, the Board visited the Managers offices in New York where we held a board meeting.
We also determined that we wanted to discuss a number of aspects with the team in New York.
This included meetings with the corporate engagement team, the dealing team, senior management and the behavioural finance team, of which Garrett Fish is a member.
In addition to investment management, the Manager provides other services to the Company, including marketing, accounting and company secretarial services.
We have had a number of discussions with the marketing team, to develop appropriate Key Performance Indicators and are generally pleased with the development of their digital marketing approach and have discussed potential improvements to the website with them.
We were pleased with the approach taken by the Managers to the demands of new regulation through the AIFM process.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of the Manager is in the continuing interests of shareholders.
The Manager has this year earned a performance fee of 359,000, which will be paid in three equal amounts over the next three years the total paid in any one year is capped.
When added to the as yet unpaid element of the performance fee brought forward from prior years, this gives a balance of 643,000 to be paid in future years and details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
This performance fee balance will be subject to claw-back in the event of future underperformance relative to the benchmark up to the point at which it is paid.
We have discussed whether the JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued performance fee makes sense, particularly in the context of the post Retail Distribution Review RDR world, where there is increasing competition from open-ended funds that charge a single management fee.
We have currently a reasonably low management fee by industry standards, and we have felt that on balance, the performance fee works fairly.
However, we do keep it under review, as we do the standard fee, as the size of your Company increases and as we see developments in the investing world.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and New Contractual Relationships I indicated previously that in order to comply with the AIFMD, the Company would be appointing a different JPMorgan entity as its Manager and Company Secretary and was further required to appoint a depositary in addition to its existing custodian.
Further to legal advice received by the Company from Dickson Minto WS, JPMorgan Funds Limited, which has been approved by the Financial Conduct Authority as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager, was appointed as Manager and Company Secretary to the Company with effect from 1st July 2014.
This change of entity does not affect the actual management of the portfolio which will continue to be managed from the US by Garrett Fish and his support team.
The Company Secretarial and administration support will also continue to be conducted by the same individuals from the Companys registered office in London.
No extra fees are being charged by any JPMorgan entity as a result of the Companys AIFMD obligations.
The Company has also appointed Bank of New York Mellon BNYM as Depositary.
This appointment, which is a requirement under the AIFMD, brings with it additional safeguards over the investments of the Company and third party oversight of many of the accounting aspects of the Companys operations.
Following the appointment of the Depositary the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, which is responsible for safeguarding the Companys assets and processing the purchase and sale of investments and collecting income arising from the portfolio, is now appointed directly by the Depositary, rather than being a direct appointee of the Company, which was previously the case.
BNYM are paid a fee of 0.017% per annum of the Companys monthly gross assets per annum currently around 170,000.
Costs and Directors Fees We have kept our focus on costs through the year, given the increased costs of the AIFMD, and the need to make sure that we continue to offer attractive value for shareholders and potential shareholders.
We said last year that we would address the level of Directors fees given the greater amounts of time required over recent years and the rising regulatory responsibilities.
The last increase in Directors fees was implemented four years ago, at the beginning of 2011.
The Board has examined the time and the effort required to be an effective Director of this particular trust and reviewed the fees paid to the directors of other investment trusts and other trading companies.
The Board has resolved that the base Directors fee will be increased by 3,500 per annum to 28,500.
In line with those increases, the Chairman of the Audit Committees fee will rise by 4,500 to 34,500 and the Chairmans fee will increase by 5,500 to 43,000.
We have also established a Risk Committee, the fee for the chairing of which 8 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 has been set at 2,000, and appointed a Senior Independent Director, the fee for which role has also been set at 2,000.
All fee increases to take effect from 1st January 2015.
The table set out below is in the same format as we used last year.
It aims to show the returns generated on the Companys investments, the extent to which the capital base of the Company has grown or shrunk through share issuance and buy-backs, and the full costs of the Companys operations.
It does so without the distortions that may come from the variations in the accounting treatment of certain items of income or expenditure which may obscure the full extent of certain categories of return or expense.
Management fees generally vary with the size of the Company and therefore rose.
There was an increase in the other costs which was primarily due to the AIFMD.
There was a loss on our currency hedges shown in this part of the table which was balanced by an increase in the underlying assets due to the strength of the dollar and which is included in the net investment performance figure.
However, it is pleasing to note that despite these increases on the prior year costs, the Companys Ongoing Charges including performance fee payable remain low at 0.64%, a reduction from the 2013 level of 0.66%.
2014 2013 Percentage Percentage of opening of opening 000s net assets 000s net assets Net assets at start of year 642,213 100.00 464,734 100.00 Increase decrease in net assets during the year from investing 139,421 21.71 141,096 30.36 Brokerage fees commissions and other dealing charges 173 0.03 305 0.07 Net investment performance 781,461 121.68 605,525 130.29 Income received from investing net of withholding tax 12,567 1.96 9,636 2.07 1 Dividends paid to shareholders 7,467 1.16 6,381 1.37 Interest paid on borrowings 3,826 0.60 3,518 0.76 Gains losses on currency hedging 4,884 0.76 3,346 0.72 Management and performance fees 4,076 0.63 3,483 0.75 Directors fees 152 0.02 151 0.03 Other costs of the Company 495 0.08 407 0.09 Issue of new shares 31,273 4.87 38,001 8.17 Cost of issue of new shares 251 0.04 355 0.08 Net assets at end of year 804,150 125.22 642,213 138.19 1 Dividends paid in 2013 include a final full years dividend for 2012 and interim dividend for 2013.
The Board The Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all continuing Directors will seek reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, I, along with Kate Bolsover, Simon Bragg Chairman of the Audit Committee and Sir Alan Collins Senior JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 Strategic Report continued Chairmans Statement continued Independent Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee all being eligible, offer ourselves for reappointment at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Board continues to manage succession so that it has an appropriate balance of skills and diverse approaches to its tasks.
Having served as a Director since 2003, James Williams retired from the Board in November 2014.
During his tenure James contributed significantly to the success of the Company and we wish him well for the future.
Dr Kevin Carter was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director from 1st July 2014.
We identified a clear set of requirements for this role, including an understanding of US fund management, an understanding of quantitative fund management approaches as well as fundamental approaches, and an understanding of the investment company sector.
Dr Carter is a CFA charterholder and has a PhD in mathematical statistics and has been involved in the fund management world for very many years in a wide range of capacities.
He has wide experience and technical understanding of both fund management and the management of fund managers.
He currently sits on two other investment trust boards.
Dr Carter will stand for appointment by shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee will continue to manage the process of Board succession and refreshment, to make sure the Board has the skills and experience to add value to shareholders.
We would note that we have a Board which is diversified by gender and also by background and experience.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 13th May 2015 at 2.30 p. m. at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from our investment manager, who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, Garrett Fish and representatives of JPMF after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many shareholders as possible to this meeting.
Outlook The US equity market continues to provide a range of opportunities not readily available elsewhere and UK investors have tended to underestimate the strength of the US corporate sector.
Valuations are clearly not cheap and the impact of the ending of quantitative easing and the possible increase in interest rates is very difficult to assess.
Our Manager tends not to make major macro-economic calls, but focuses on picking companies which appear to offer both reasonable quality and reasonable value.
The portfolio is broadly spread and carefully put together so that, compared with the US market as a whole, there are no extreme positions.
If markets were to fall, the assets of your Company would undoubtedly fall as well.
On the other hand, in a very uncertain world, there are considerable attractions in the US corporate sector and our Manager has demonstrated some ability to steer a sensible course through both exuberant and difficult market conditions.
Sarah Bates Chairman 31st March 2015 10 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
