EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 2 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Performance In the year to 30th June 2014, the total return on the Companys portfolio, net of fees and expenses, was a negative 3.5%.
This compares with the benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in sterling terms, which returned 1.4%.
The total return to ordinary shareholders was a negative 1.0%, reflecting the narrowing of the discount over the year, from 11.8% to 10.1%.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from emerging markets worldwide and its performance is measured against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, in sterling terms, on a total return basis.
Whilst it is disappointing to report underperformance for the latest financial year, the Board judges performance over the long term and this was only the second year in the last ten financial years that our Investment Manager significantly underperformed the benchmark.
Indeed, as the graph on page one illustrates, the Company is still just ahead of the benchmark over three years and significantly ahead over five and ten years, despite last years slippage.
Our Managers investment process focuses on bottom-up stock selection rather than a top-down asset allocation across markets.
This has served the Company well over the long term but this did not add value during the year.
The portfolio has had a traditional bias to high quality growth stocks which benefit directly from rising living standards in the countries we invest in rather than so-called value stocks with lower valuations.
We did not get our stock and sector selection right last year as it turned out.
In addition, currency factors were also a significant element of the portfolios overall return over the twelve months, accounting not merely for an element of the underperformance directly, but also affecting stock selection in markets where currency effects were important drivers of relative stock returns.
The Board supports the Investment Manager in placing importance on maintaining his investment discipline in identifying companies with superior earnings growth.
As I have explained previously, following the successful issue of Subscription shares in 2009, we report our net asset value on a diluted basis to reflect the potential dilution to net asset value assuming full conversion of the Subscription shares to Ordinary shares.
This can give a somewhat misleading impression of the Companys underlying portfolio performance and, as I have stated in previous years, it is not the basis on which we judge the performance of the Manager, which we continue to do excluding the dilution effect.
For the record, the fully diluted return on net assets was 3.2%.
as against the 3.5% reported above, on an undiluted basis.
The Subscription shares expired on 31st July 2014 and were all converted to Ordinary shares, hence this complication will not arise in future years.
Fees The underperformance this year gives rise to a negative performance fee accrual of 3.6 million, which will be carried forward and has to be offset against any future outperformance before any performance fee becomes payable.
In other words, the Manager has to overcome this underperformance before we start paying a performance fee again.
2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 10:23 Page 3 In the interim report, I indicated a change in our management fee arrangements with a move to a sliding scale.
Our existing management fee was 1.0% of net assets which remains in place up to a value of 800 million, but for assets in excess of that level the fee now drops to a 0.75% of net assets.
The Board is aware of the pressure to lower fees in the industry and wishes to remain competitive.
We intend to keep fee arrangements under review and to that end we will consider whether our performance fee arrangement with the Manager remains appropriate.
Discount Management We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the diluted net asset value.
The Ordinary share price fell 1.9% over the year, from 567.0p to 556.0p at the year end.
The discount, calculated on the fully diluted net asset value, ranged between 8.1% and 11.9%, averaging 10.2% through the year.
A total of 276,705 shares were repurchased into Treasury during the year and a further 510,887 shares have been repurchased since the year end.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to ensure that the fully diluted discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
We are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
Over the year under review, whilst the average discount was marginally above 10%, we believe our actions were effective in reducing the volatility of the discount, though we did not quite succeed in keeping it below 10% and it remained wider than our immediate peers.
Now that the Subscription shares are fully exercised, we hope it will be easier to manage the discount.
Unless market conditions are disorderly, the Board is keen to exercise its buyback powers to narrow the discount.
Revenue and Dividends Income after expenses fell by some 24% this year, but we are proposing to maintain the dividend at 5.5 pence.
This fall in income was largely driven by negative exchange rate effects on income earned overseas.
Our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income.
We have however embarked on a more progressive approach to the dividend and are pleased to be able to maintain it this year, by dipping into our substantial revenue reserve.
However, given that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth, it remains the case that dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board David Gamble, the Companys Senior Independent Director, will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
He joined the Board in 2006 when the Company acquired the assets of F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank David for his contribution to the Company.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3 EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 4 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued Nigel Kenny will become our Senior Independent Director on Davids retirement.
Percy Mistry has indicated his intention to step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
In order to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, we have commenced the search for a new Director and are seeking to make an appointment in early 2015.
The Manager The Board monitors the performance of our Manager through the Management Engagement Committee.
While last year was something of a disappointment, we remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance, where we believe we are well served.
As I have explained in previous statements, significant regulatory change was brought about with the implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD in July this year.
In order to ensure compliance with the new regime, the Company entered into a new management agreement with JPMorgan Funds Limited, an affiliate of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, and appointed Bank of New York Mellon as its depositary, with effect from 1st July 2014.
There are some additional reporting and disclosure requirements as a result of the AIFMD, but in practical terms the way in which the Company is managed remains largely unchanged.
Continuation Vote As shareholders will be aware, every three years the Company offers shareholders a Continuation Vote to determine whether the Company should continue in existence.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this in a resolution at the forthcoming AGM in November.
The Board believes strongly that the Company should continue and it urges shareholders to support the Company by voting yes to the resolution.
Outlook Emerging markets have had a troubled time but the situation seems to have stabilised.
On a valuation basis, they are generally regarded as looking attractive despite the risks compared to developed markets.
We are not out of the woods yet with regard to volatility in emerging markets but we appear to be moving in the right direction.
We trust also that this will be enhanced by a return to our Managers successful record of long term outperformance against the emerging markets benchmark.
Alan Saunders Chairman 1st October 2014 4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
