Chairmans statement We have delivered a strong financial performance, expanded our portfolio of marketed products and development opportunities and enhanced our organisational capacity and capabilities to enable the business to continue to deliver sustainable growth.
We have had an exceptional year, transforming our business and becoming a leading player in interventional medicine.
Garry Watts Chairman 06 Performance against corporate Governance objectives Our business operates in highly regulated Our corporate objectives focus on our markets, requiring that the Board has a financial performance, delivering products continuous focus on good governance and for our customers, growth activities and oversight.
An area of particular focus for operating efficiency.
the Board during the year was Compliance in relation to our expanding commercial Our strong financial performance reflects activities and Quality, given the increase in good organic growth and a positive manufacturing sites and complexity contribution from acquisitions.
In July 2013, we acquired TheraSphere In the year ahead we will continue to focus and EKOS Corporation, adding two highly on risk management to ensure that our complementary products to our business, processes remain appropriate as the and then in November 2013 we received business grows.
The risk report on pages US approval for Varithena, our novel 30 to 34 and governance report on pages treatment for varicose veins.
This enlarged 38 to 45 provide further information.
portfolio means that we now have a leading Interventional Medicine business People and that we are a significant partner for Our Company has experienced enormous interventional clinicians.
change over the past several years, as have the industry sectors in which we To position the business for sustained operate.
We have been able to build our growth, we have enhanced our capacity business and navigate through healthcare and capabilities in key functions including reforms thanks to the dedication, Commercial, Regulatory, Medical, enthusiasm and hard work of our Manufacturing and Quality.
We have employees, many of whom have joined also reorganised our innovation and the Company recently.
I am grateful to development functions and enhanced them all.
Quality, Compliance and Environmental Health and Safety EHS systems and I am also grateful to our shareholders, processes, to improve our controls, who have continued to support the operating efficiency and effectiveness.
implementation of our growth strategy.
Further details of progress with our Prospects corporate objectives are given on Over the past several years our business pages 10 to13.
has expanded significantly, evidenced by increased revenue, profitability and We now have a diversified product investment, an expanded portfolio of portfolio providing significant organic marketed products, development growth opportunities, particularly in our programmes, more employees and share Interventional Medicine business.
have also broadened the number and scope of our development and innovation We have built a great platform.
We now projects, which provide additional growth anticipate a period of sustainable, potential.
We have the financial and profitable growth combined with organisational capability to expand our ongoing investment to expand the portfolio further through acquisitions indicated uses and geographic availability and we intend to explore opportunities of our products.
in both interventional medicine and specialty pharmaceuticals.
As our current focus is to invest to exploit Garry Watts these multiple growth drivers, we do not Chairman recommend payment of a dividend for the year.
The Board will continue to review its dividend policy as the business develops.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Strategic report
