CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A busy and successful year 2014 was a year of significant change for Jupiter with new leadership and the sale of our private client contracts.
It is a tribute to the strength of the business that we once again saw healthy investment performance across our product range and continued organic flow growth.
Jupiter is now focused on its core mutual fund franchise, and increasingly well placed for the future with a range of attractive and diversified growth prospects.
Strong cash flow generation and our sustainable balance sheet mean we can invest in this growth alongside now returning the majority of our operating cash flow to shareholders.
Following the completion of our deleverage process earlier in 2014, we have doubled total dividends to shareholders to 24.7p 2013: 12.6p from a combination of underlying earnings growth and our first special dividend.
We believe our growth prospects allied with the consequent yield potential make for an attractive model for shareholders.
Leadership changes Jamie Dundas wrote last year that thoughtful succession planning is integral to long-term success, and this is as true at Board level as within the business.
As we had previously announced, Maarten Slendebroek became Chief Executive in March 2014, having joined Jupiter in 2012 as Distribution and Strategy Director.
This smooth and positive transition provides strategic continuity and is a natural evolution of our executive team.
Edward Bonham Carter, our previous Chief Executive, continues to make an important contribution as Vice Chairman, representing Jupiter in front of a variety of stakeholders and supporting our continuous search for new talent.
It has been another busy and successful We were saddened that ill health forced Jamie Dundas to retire from the Board in September.
Jamie provided exceptional leadership during his six years as nonyear for Jupiter, as we executive Chairman, guiding Jupiter through its IPO and its subsequent success as a have continued to listed company.
While the succession of Chairman was unplanned, my four years on the Board, as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, grow our core mutual allowed me to step up when appointed to succeed Jamie.
During the year, there have been a number of other non-executive changes to the Board, which are fund franchise and discussed more fully in my introduction to the Governance section later.
I am doubled dividends to confident that these have built further on our framework of blending effective, independent non-executive oversight with our strong executive team.
Looking forward Liz Airey Jupiters strength is built upon the efforts of the many talented people who work Chairman here.
Our culture and values are at the heart of our success, and we have a remuneration philosophy designed to ensure reward is aligned with our clients and shareholders.
We believe these are key strengths for us in a competitive market for talent and a source of real advantage as we move forward.
I would like to thank everyone in Jupiter for their hard work and commitment in 2014 and I look forward to the opportunities ahead in 2015 and beyond.
Liz Airey Chairman 25 February 2015 4 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
