Chairmans statement The year ended June 2014 has been a very important year for Just Retirement and for its shareholders.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials It gives me great pleasure to introduce Just Board and governance Our communities Retirements 2014 Annual Report.
The Group A Board operating in financial services needs We have continued to support Group has made good progress, delivering a strong to be strong in relevant expertise, not only to colleagues with charitable giving through set of results in a very challenging market and support the management team, but also to a corporate matching arrangement and providing excellent value to our customers.
Since our by facilitating help for other fundraising The past twelve months have been very listing we have made a number of changes activities.
In 2013 14, our two corporate important for Just Retirement and our new to expand the Board and to complement the charities were St Catherines Hospice in shareholders as we successfully completed strengths of existing directors.
Crawley and Alzheimers Research UK.
our listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Keith Nicholson became Senior Independent Future prospects Director on 9 October 2013 and is Chairman We continue to face uncertainties and Freedom and choice of the Risk and Compliance Committee.
headwinds ahead of the Budget changes The Group achieved record results in taking effect next April.
We are very a number of areas this year although Kate Avery joined the Board on 9 October 2013 fortunate to be competing in a structurally the performance has been somewhat as independent Non-executive Director and is high-growth market where our customer overshadowed by the March Budget.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
solutions contribute to improving the lives announcement by the Chancellor of the ofincreasing numbers of people.
Exchequer that pension savers would be On 30 April 2014 Michael Deakin joined the provided with additional freedoms came Board as independent Non-executive Director Just Retirement continues to hold leading as a complete surprise to members of Just and is Chairman of the Just Retirement positions in the markets we serve.
We are an Retirements Board and to all companies Limited Investment Committee.
innovative company with strong intellectual in our industry.
It is the most significant property and a track record of positively reform of the pensions system since I am confident these changes will ensure the disrupting markets by introducing new 1920 and has had a material impact on Board is well placed to support management in propositions that deliver improved outcomes our sales of individual annuities since the developing and executing the Groups strategy.
Applying our credentials to Budget announcement and the price of new challenges and maintaining absolute thecompanys shares.
Les Owen has decided not to stand for focus on the needs of our customers will re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
ensure we deliver value for our shareholders.
Operating performance Iwould like to put on record my thanks for The Groups underlying operating profit his immense contribution to the Board over I am confident that under the leadership was 96.7m, a reduction of 3.3% over the the last four years.
of the Groups Chief Executive, Rodney year.
This is the sum of the new business Cook, we are well positioned to introduce operating profit and in-force operating Clifton Melvin, Charles Sherwood and Keith further innovation to the market that will profit.
As this measure excludes the impact Jones have retired from the Group following deliver superior benefits leading to a just and of one-off assumption changes and the IPO and I would like to express my thanks fair retirement for the next generation of investment variances, the Board considers to each of them for their trusted advice and peopleapproaching and in retirement.
underlying operating profit as a key indicator contribution to the Board and Committees.
of the performance of the business and a In closing, on behalf of the Board, I would useful measure for investors and analysts to Our people like to thank our colleagues across the Group use to assess the Groups financial position.
It has been a challenging year for colleagues along with our distribution and business This compares to an increase in profit before in our Group businesses.
As part of our rapid partners for their support in delivering tax of 14.5m, which benefited from lower response to the changes announced in the strongresults in 2014. finance costs following the IPO.
Budget we implemented a cost reduction programme and unfortunately had to say Total new business sales grew by 6% during goodbye to a number of colleagues who the year to reach 1.751bn marking a new have served the business well.
Despite this, record for the Group.
our people have retained their focus on the business and continue to apply their talents to The economic capital base of the Group deliver outstanding service to our customers has been strengthened significantly and and business partners.
I am grateful to Tom Cross Brown the coverage ratio is now 178%, which the Non-executive Directors and Executive Chairman compares favourably with our peers in the Directors in joining me in contributing to the 17 September 2014 UK and Europe.
The growth in the economic cost reduction programme by reducing their capital coverage reflects the net proceeds compensation packages in 2014 15. received from the IPO and the overall level ofprofitability achieved in the year.
We have aligned colleagues interests with shareholders through the launch of our Dividend employee share plan and colleagues will be During the initial public offering we able to benefit in the Groups future success.
indicated we would manage the Groups capital base to support a dividend payment The Board is very grateful for the continued to shareholders.
The Board applies strict effort and support of all Just Retirement affordability tests against a range of criteria people throughout this period.
before making its dividend recommendation.
I am pleased to report that the Board is recommending a final dividend payment for 2014 of 2.2 pence per share, in line with our expectations at the IPO.
