Strategic Report Introduction Chairmans Letter The management team at Burberry measures its performance relative to a consistent set of objectives ensuring clarity and consistency of Burberrys luxury brand positioning, producing sustainable sector-leading growth, and being a great company.
The establishment of Beauty as Burberrys fifth product division, which recorded some early successes including the launch of two new fragrances, the opening of the firstBurberry Beauty Box pilot store in London and the integration of Beauty and fashion across product, events and marketing.
While the new product division has made a modest financial contribution in 2013 14, reflecting thecomplexities and challenges of this transition year, we expect our investment in this category to be a key component of future growth.
The further integration of physical and digital platforms toenhance the brand experience across all touchpoints, from investments that leverage data and insight in thecreation of increasingly personalised customer Sir John Peace experiences, to more integrated, emotive storytelling Chairman across our online and offline worlds.
A sustained focus on reclaiming Burberrys menswear Within that context, we can report a strong year for heritage, including the return of the mens runway show Burberry in 2013 14.
While representing this years efforts, to London and investments in design and merchandising.
the results also reflect the disciplined pursuit and execution With about 20% sales increase in mainline stores during of a uniform strategy over the past several years the year, the growth of menswear presents exciting future astrategy designed to produce near-term results potential as we look to further build this underdeveloped andreinforce the foundation for future success.
Burberry operates today in a period of unprecedented Continued investment in flagship markets, strengthening change for the consumer sphere, which includes the luxury the brands position in the 25 cities that account for the sector: from the evolving dynamics between the physical majority of its retail sales.
Of the 25 store openings in and digital worlds: to the emergence of a new class of theyear, about half were in these markets, while specific younger luxury consumer in developing markets: and the product, merchandising and service initiatives were increasing role that travel plays in luxury consumption further honed and developed to address the travelling atrend further intensified by dramatic increases in luxury customers flowing through these urban centres, outbound travel from China.
Alongside these dynamics, with particular attention to the Chinese consumer.
overall growth of the luxury sector has moderated over the The engagement of all business functions in laying last two years, following its post-financial crisis acceleration.
foundations to transform the brand in Japan, the second largest luxury market in the world.
With licences expiring Burberrys strategy has proven effective in both concept in 2015, the year saw the development of plans to ensure and execution in responding to this evolving environment.
a smooth exit of local product from the market and This Report sets out the significant progress delivered preparations to forcefully assert Burberrys global luxury across all five of the brands strategic themes during the positioning in the months and years ahead.
year, with highlights including the following.
This activity contributed to a strong annual financial performance for 2013 14 while positioning Burberry wellforthe future.
Total revenue increased 17% to 2,330million, with adjusted before tax profit up 8% 8 Strategic Report Introduction to461 million.
The retail wholesale business achieved additional mobile, digital, media, financial, consumer a17% increase in adjusted operating profit on a 19% traveland general management experience to the Board, revenue gain to 2,251 million, driven by the 15% revenue reflecting the Groups strategy.
growth and 12% comparable store sales increase in retail.
Excluding Beauty, wholesale sales grew 2%, with gains Consistent with past practice, we reward our people on inthe Americas and Asia partially offset by continued abasis which is strongly aligned to sustainable long-term softness in Europe.
Beauty, in its first year of operation, performance and delivering value to our shareholders.
contributed wholesale revenue of 144 million, while Atthe same time, we must take into account the global licensing revenue, excluding Beauty, increased 2% markets in which the Group operates and from which it underlying, reflecting growth in global categories against recruits, so as to attract and retain high calibre individuals.
aslight decline in legacy licences.
Capital investment For the first time shareholders will have a binding vote on totalled 154 million and the Group ended the year our remuneration policy, in relation to which we consulted witha403 million net cash position.
The Board has with a number of our leading institutional shareholders and recommended a 10% increase in the full year dividend investor advisory bodies.
The details are set out in the to32.00p, and will aim to move progressively from a Directors Remuneration Report contained herein.
40%payout ratio to 50% over three years reflecting ourongoingfocus onshareholder returns.
Each year I remark that Burberrys strong results reflect the contributions of In addition to the strategic and financial performance teamsacross the business and this continues to be true.
outlined above, 2013 14 also marked a significant leadership The line separating strong and median performance in this transition at Burberry.
In October, Angela Ahrendts dynamic, highly competitive industry is thin, and a united informed the Board that she had decided to step down team and vibrant culture can make all the difference.
asChief Executive Officer and the Board unanimously Accordingly, Burberry continues to invest in areas that agreed that Christopher Bailey would be her successor foster the further development of its distinctive culture, inthe newly-created position of Chief Creative and Chief including internal communication activities, career Executive Officer, a role he assumed on 1 May 2014. development opportunities, compensation plans and Angelamoves on after eight remarkable years with organisational initiatives, including the opening at the end Burberry, having built a great culture and management of the year ofour second headquarters building, uniting team, and leading the Company through an incredible allLondon-based employees on a single campus.
We are all hugely grateful for her efforts internal values that define the Burberry culture continue andaccomplishments and wish her well in her tobe expressed through investment externally, in ethical futureendeavours.
trading and sustainability efforts, community involvement activities andthe Burberry Foundation, to name a few.
While this is a significant change, the CEO transition to Christopher is a natural progression.
Christopher has been Burberrys present and future success is dependent upon at Burberry since 2001 and as Chief Creative Officer has the hard work and commitment of our talented global team overseen all consumer-facing activities including product and I thank them for their efforts during the year.
I would design, creative marketing, store design, consumer also like to thank our shareholders, customers, partners technology and digital innovation.
I have no doubt that and all those who engage with the brand for their continued Christophers vision and leadership, supported by an support, aswe look to the future with confidence.
outstanding management team, will keep Burberry on theforefront creatively, digitally and financially, creating KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS Year to 31 March further value for shareholders in the next exciting stage A key valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders.
75.4p 8% The Board is also evolving, as it builds further relevant skillsand competencies for the future.
Good progress has 2014 75.4 8% been made on the Boards succession plan during the year 2013 70.0 14% with the appointment of Matthew Key and Jeremy Darroch 2012 61.6 26% as non-executive directors and the announcement that 2011 48.9 39% Carolyn McCall will be joining the Board as a non-executive 2010 35.1 16% director on 1 September 2014.
These appointments bring Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before adjusting items.
