4 Chairmans statement Performance Independent fiduciary services Our net asset value total return for the year to 31 December The businesses are an integral part of Law Debentures 2014 was 2.6%, compared to a total return of 1.2% for the unique business model, which we describe in detail in our FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Net revenue return per strategic report.
Performance in 2014 was solid a more share was 16.95p, an increase of 4.2% over the previous detailed review of the independent fiduciary services year, as a result of a 8.3% increase in the investment trust businesses is set out on page 20. and a 1.3% decrease in independent fiduciary services.
125th anniversary Dividend Brief mention is made at the front of our annual report to the The board is recommending a final dividend of 11.0p per fact that Law Debenture reached the age of 125 in December ordinary share 2013: 10.5p, which together with the interim 2014.
While we have not sought to make too much of this, dividend of 4.7p 2013: 4.5p gives a total dividend of 15.7p nevertheless it is a milestone that should be noted.
very proud to be the Chairman of the City institution that is Law Debenture.
Our shareholders have benefited from The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder consistently good performance and dividend growth from approval, on 23 April 2015 to holders on the register on the the portfolio over many years.
Not many will be aware, I record date of 20 March 2015. suspect, of just how ingrained is the reputation of Law Debenture as an independent fiduciary within the City and The Corporations policy continues to be to seek growth in more widely.
That is a testament to the professionalism of both capital and income.
We attach considerable importance our Managing Director and staff, whose important work often to the dividend, which we aim to increase over a period, if not goes unseen and unheralded, but is nevertheless important every year, at a rate which is covered by earnings and which to the effective functioning of certain sectors of the Citys does not inhibit the flexibility of our investment strategy.
basis for reporting earnings is more conservative than that of many investment trusts, in that all of our expenses, including interest costs, are charged fully to the revenue account.
Regulatory matters the Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive The AIFM Directive requires certain funds, including Investment trust investment trusts, to appoint an appropriately regulated The portfolio performed reasonably well during the year AIFM to provide portfolio management, risk management, outperforming the FTSE-All Share Index once again.
James administration, accounting and company secretarial Henderson describes the performance in 2014 in more detail services to the fund.
Since all of these functions, bar in his report.
We had a less successful second half and with portfolio management, have traditionally been performed the benefit of hindsight, we should have had more weight in by the Corporation, which unusually for an investment trust the USA and our position in the oil sector, particularly in small has full time staff within the group, the Corporation has oil exploration companies in the UK, was not well judged.
elected to be its own AIFM as permitted under the More positively, holdings in the pharmaceutical sector have legislation.
As part of this, we have been required to appoint again performed well and dividend revenues have been a depositary further information on this is given in the particularly pleasing.
We have retained a modest level of directors report at not insignificant cost to shareholders.
gearing at 5% but continue to keep this under review.
The Corporation will, it goes without saying, continue to Looking forward, the markets are particularly difficult to judge comply with its legal and regulatory obligations to the at present.
The fundamentals underlying many stocks maximum extent necessary.
Nevertheless, I am yet to hear suggest that there is still value in the market and continuing a satisfactory explanation for why investment trusts have strong cash generation should see good dividend receipts.
been caught by this Directive, nor have I found anybody in The reduction in the oil price should have a positive impact in the industry or more widely who can suggest what benefit some sectors.
Weighed against these factors, continuing shareholders might derive from its adoption.
concerns about the strength of the global recovery, particularly in Europe, introduce a level of uncertainty that The annual general meeting will be held at the Brewers Hall, may prove to be a drag on markets.
The portfolio continues Aldermanbury Square, London, EC2V 7HR on 14 April 2015 to be well diversified on a geographical and industry and I look forward to seeing as many as possible of you there.
Christopher Smith The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
