STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 1 Key information Chairmans statement for shareholders Full year dividend 11.25p 2013: 9.30p Final dividend 8.35p To be paid on 4 June 2015 2013: 6.90p.
Our dividend policy is described on page 39 Annual general meeting 2015 11am on Thursday 21 May 2015, at the Honourable Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ Delivering growth through social responsibility.
We have a special culture at Legal & General which inspires Recent Board changes our people to help our customers and our communities, The Board leads Legal & Generals governance as well as striving to deliver financial success.
We describe in pages 56 to 101 of this report pride in the financial success we achieved in tough trading how its performance remained effective throughout 2014. conditions, as well as knowing that we continued to fulfil Id like to record my appreciation to John Pollock, our CEO our commitments to build a better society.
for LGAS, whos retiring after serving for 11 years on the Board and for 35 years at Legal & General.
I would also Our performance like to thank Mike Fairey who left the Board in 2014 and Profit before tax increased by 8% to 1,238 million 2013: welcome Olaf Swantee, Richard Meddings and Carolyn 1,144 million with earnings per share at 16.70p 2013: Bradley, who bring us significant new skills and experience.
Our total shareholder return is 300% over five years and 184% over three years, making us the best five-year Commitment to society performer among our global peers in the life sector.
We play an important role in society, with responsibility Were proposing a full year dividend for 2014 of 11.25p.
for 709 billion of total assets, across the globe.
In the UK, Thats 21% higher than in 2013.
We have a progressive we look after the savings or provide protection for around dividend policy which recognises that Solvency II has not one in six adults.
Our commitment extends beyond our yet been finalised.
Should our Solvency II surplus be no own customers to our communities and to society as a lower than Solvency I, we intend to return up to two thirds whole and I would especially like to commend our work of our cash flow to shareholders, whilst retaining at least on helping people suffering from stroke and mental health one third in 2015 to reinvest in the business.
Our dividend issues and our actions to improve housing for the elderly.
policy is described on page 39.
Positioned for growth A clear strategy for success The Board are confident that our financial strength, Our strategy is built with our customers and our contribution our strategic ambition and our talented people position to society at its heart.
Its aligned to the long-term global us well to succeed and grow in future years, even though macro trends which affect us all and the clarity and relevance economic uncertainty and market volatility are likely to of this strategy helps our employees deliver success.
remain issues for the foreseeable future.
I would encourage shareholders to find out more about what makes us World class leadership successful in this report.
I hope to see as many of you Were developing ambitious, inspiring leaders who as possible at our annual general meeting in May.
have high expectations in terms of performance and results.
Our Leadership Academy uses leading providers and offers us exciting and innovative opportunities.
This year weve launched a new initiative, 50 50 by 2020, aligned to our goal to progress and develop talented women and become a more diverse and inclusive John Stewart organisation for all our employees.
Chairman LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
