Strategic report Chairmans statement Overview and strategy My first year as Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group saw the achievement of our 2011 strategic plan.
We have delivered on our key strategic priorities over the last three years, reshaping the Group to focus on serving our UK customers and returning the balance sheet to strength, while at the same time generating a significant improvement in underlying profitability and recommencing a dividend payment.
I would like to extend my thanks to the Board, the management team and all colleagues across the Group for their determination to see this through.
While we are all proud of these achievements, we recognise that this is a base for the future, not the end of the strategic journey.
There are major changes in the environment as well as our own capabilities that we need to address in the next phase of our development to become the best bank for customers and shareholders.
The next phase of our strategy, announced in October, outlined how we will focus on creating the best customer experience, becoming simpler and more efficient and delivering sustainable growth.
As a Board, we have spent much time discussing how we could take the business forward, recognising the impact that the evolving regulatory and competitive environment and customers changing needs are having on our UK retail and commercial banking focused business.
We believe that digital transformation in particular will result in more fundamental change occurring in the banking industry over the next decade than we have seen in the last 200 years.
I am confident that our low cost, low risk, customer focused, Our low cost, low risk, UK retail and commercial banking strategy is the right one in the current environment.
It capitalises on the Groups customer focused, UK unique assets, including its franchise and capabilities, and is also consistent with our prudent risk appetite as well as our retail and commercial mission to Help Britain Prosper.
Alongside this strategic challenge, it is essential that we also banking strategy is rebuild trust.
This is a major challenge for the UK financial services sector, not just because of the damage caused the right one in the by the financial crisis but also because of the continuing legacy of past industry misconduct.
As well as the continuing current environment.
impact of issues such as Payment Protection Insurance we also announced settlements on LIBOR and BBA repo rate issues.
The Board regards the actions of those individuals responsible for this misconduct as completely unacceptable.
Their behaviour involved a gross breach of trust and we condemn it without reservation.
Doing the right thing for customers is an integral part of our strategy and I am convinced that these actions are entirely unrepresentative of the vast majority of our staff who are committed to delivering outstanding service, recognising that trust is at the core of our business.
Lord Blackwell It is clear that regaining this trust, which is a business imperative rather than a nice to have, will take time.
We Chairman are completely committed to achieving this by setting the highest possible standards of integrity to serve our customers and clients.
6 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Regulation A COMMITMENT TO As a result of the financial crisis, there has been a GOOD GOVERNANCE great deal of change in the regulatory environment in recent years.
The regulators have made good progress in One of the principal tasks of the Board is improving financial stability through prudential regulation to develop a strategy which can achieve and they are now putting greater emphasis on protecting longterm success and generate sustainable consumers and small business customers through conduct returns for shareholders.
This needs to and competition regulation.
be underpinned by the high standards of Capital requirements, though not yet finalised, are much corporate governance which are critical to clearer and the significant progress made in improving the success of any business today and should our capital position means we are now well placed.
During be driven by the Board led by the Chairman the year, the Group met the capital benchmarks set out by the European Banking Authority EBA and the Prudential and embedded in the thinking and processes Regulation Authority PRA stress testing exercises, with no of the business.
We are confident we have a additional capital action required: a further demonstration strong, experienced management team and a of our robust capital, liquidity and funding position.
commitment to good governance enabling us to build a business that will deliver sustainable The ring-fence perimeter was clearly set in 2014, although final details and implementation of the rules remain success in the future.
Our strategy continues to envisage a Our Board simple, low risk organisation with a business model focused The Board has seen a number of changes this year, on traditional retail and commercial banking, that would and in line with the provisions of the UK Corporate predominantly sit within the ring-fence.
Governance Code and the interests of good corporate governance, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
We are committed to ensuring we have the right balance of skills Regaining trust is a business and experience within the Board, and we annually review its composition, and the diversity of backgrounds of imperative rather than a nice its members.
Board oversight key topics to have.
We are completely During 2014, the Board continued to review the Groups corporate strategy, the operation of the business and our results within a framework of prudent and effective committed to achieving this.
controls, including the assessment and management of risks.
Key topics arising through the year included: Directors discussion and oversight of the Group Strategic Update: We were delighted to welcome four new Independent the appointment of four Non-Executive Directors in Non-Executive Directors to the Board during the year.
order to strengthen the Boards experience in the areas Dyfrig John joined in January, Nick Prettejohn and of financial services, banking, risk and insurance: Simon Henry in June and Alan Dickinson in September.
These appointments bring a good balance of additional the initial public offering IPO of TSB Banking Group plc in order to meet the Groups commitments to the skills and experience to our Board.
More information can be found in the corporate governance section and European Commission: on our website.
the banking stress tests conducted by the EBA Our Deputy Chairman, David Roberts, stepped down in May and the PRA in order to assess banks resilience to market downturns: to become Non-Executive Director and Chairman-Elect at Nationwide.
I and my colleagues are grateful for the the resolution of legacy issues with regulators in tremendous contribution he made to the Group during his the UK and US in respect of the manipulation of the period on the Board.
We were pleased to announce the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and the appointment of Anita Frew, a non-Executive Director with Sterling Repo Rate and continued focus on the Group since 2010, to this role.
Payment Protection Insurance: and the continued creation of a corporate culture that values integrity and best practice standards and that puts customers first.
For more about corporate governance go to page 62 or visit 62 www.
com BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 7 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued This is vitally important.
As I noted earlier, trust is not a nice Community and culture to have its a must have.
It provides the foundations on With a network of more than 2,200 UK branches and a which we can build sustainable success as a responsible focus on supporting small to medium-sized businesses, business dedicated to meeting our customers needs.
It we are well positioned to help our local and national is also, I am convinced, a true reflection of the values and communities.
Our commitment to invest in the commitment of our hardworking staff, all of whom I would long-term economic future of the UK is highlighted, like to thank on behalf of the Board for their dedication to not just through the significant lending to customers, serving our customers.
particularly SMEs and first-time buyers, but also through the many community programmes we run, including our Lloyds Scholars programme, our Social Entrepreneurs Remuneration programme and our Career Academies.
We continue to believe that remuneration policy at all levels, including for senior executives, needs to motivate We remain dedicated to our charitable initiatives staff to deliver strong, sustainable growth whilst supporting and I am thrilled that we raised more than 6 million the business strategy.
We strongly believe in rewards for from our two-year partnership with the Alzheimers success, properly earned not just paid by default.
That Society and Alzheimer Scotland.
The money, which is means aligning rewards to the longer term, sustainable significantly higher than our 2014 target, will go towards success of our business and through this the delivery the Dementia Research Leaders Programme, working of value to shareholders.
It also means holding back or to improve dementia research and transform our removing performance rewards where managers have understanding of the condition.
failed to meet their objectives.
Despite better results in 2014, the total bonus outcomee for the year has decreased by approximately 3.6 per cent after adjusting for TSB.
This reflects the continuing overhang With a network of more than of past conduct issues.
Discretionary bonus awards remain a very small percentage of revenues at approximately 2,200 UK branches and a focus 2 per cent, and represent approximately 4.5 per cent of pre-bonus underlying profit before tax, compared to 6 per cent in 2013.
Cash bonuses are capped at 2,000 with on supporting small to additional amounts paid in shares and subject to deferral and performance adjustment.
Average bonus awards across medium-sized businesses, we all our staff are approximately 4,500.
More information on how we ensure our approach to are well positioned to help our remuneration supports the business strategy can be found in the Directors remuneration report later in this document.
Outlook As we enter 2015, a milestone year during which we celebrate the 200th anniversary of Scottish Widows and the I am also delighted to announce that BBC Children in Need 250th anniversary of Lloyds Bank, it is important that we look will be the Groups Charity of the Year partnership for 2015 back with pride but also keep looking forward and adapt to and 2016.
We chose BBC Children in Need because we the changing landscape of the future.
I believe we are very share the same goal of supporting communities across the well placed to make the most of the opportunities that exist.
UK and we will be working together to change the lives of disadvantaged children and young people.
A responsible business Doing business fairly and responsibly is the best way to rebuild trust with Britains households, businesses and Lord Blackwell communities.
It also rebuilds our colleagues pride in our Group.
Our business model puts customers at the heart: Chairman based on traditional attributes such as prudence and a long-term view, whilst making the most of emerging digital channels.
The best of the past combined with the best of the present and the future.
I see increasing evidence that we are returning to the qualities that historically made our bank a pillar of local communities, applying these qualities to meet the changing demands of our customers.
