14 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Chairmans statement Overview London Stock Exchange Group has continued its strategy of expanding its global presence and business footprint while delivering growth, both through acquisition and organically.
We have reaped the benefits of recent acquisitions, LCH.
Clearnet and FTSE, and have strengthened our position as a key facilitator of capital formation with resurgent IPO markets in London and Italy, helping companies raise over 42 billion during the course of the year.
In December 2014, we successfully completed the acquisition of Frank Russell Company, a strong strategic acquisition for LSEG and a rare opportunity to acquire a high quality US business with a leading global brand.
The combination of FTSE and the Russell index businesses will give our Group Chris Gibson-Smith a leading global index franchise, strongly positioned to capitalise on key Chairman industry trends such as growth in passive investment strategies, and will provide an excellent platform for attractive financial returns.
Financial performance and dividend THE GROUP IS IN A The Group delivered a good financial performance, with adjusted income on a 12 month basis up 26 per cent to 1,381.1 million.
Adjusted operating STRONG POSITION, profit rose 8 per cent, on an organic and constant currency basis, to 558 million.
LSEGs delivery on its stated strategy is also reflected in the Groups AND CONTINUES TO share price performance, which reached a record high during 2014.
A rights issue to partially fund the purchase of Frank Russell Company was BE AS RELEVANT successfully completed in September, expanding the number of shares in issue to 347 million.
Given the change in the Groups accounting reference AS EVER TO date to 31 December, we are proposing a final dividend of 12.8 pence per share.
This results in a total dividend of 22.5 pence per share for the THE SUCCESSFUL 9 month period, equivalent to 75 per cent of the dividend that would have been paid for a full 12 month period.
The final dividend will be paid to FUNCTIONING shareholders on the register as at 8 May 2015.
OF THE GLOBAL Corporate responsibility We remain acutely aware of the wider role that our organisation plays in ECONOMY AND THE the communities in which we operate, and as a participant in the global economy.
The Groups approach to corporate responsibility is founded on four STABILITY AND pillars that are directly linked with the way we operate as a business: namely our markets, our services, our people and our community.
In June 2014, LSEG EFFICIENCY OF THE joined the UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative as a partner exchange where we collaborate with peers to promote sustainable business practices INTERNATIONAL and corporate transparency.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Chairmans statement 15 The wider role our business plays in society remains a key focus across the I have had the privilege to work with an array of highly experienced, Group.
In the past nine months, the Group donated over 1.5 million, a 21 per intelligent, and dynamic colleagues across all areas of the business, cent increase on the equivalent pro rated period last year.
This is in addition from employees in our various locations across the globe, to the executive to ongoing initiatives which individual employees undertake in conjunction management team and my fellow Board Directors.
I would formally like with our partner charities across the globe.
We have refreshed our corporate to extend my personal thanks for their individual dedication throughout responsibility strategy and a summary of our activities can be found on page my tenure.
In particular I would like to thank Clara Furse and Xavier Rolet, 40 and in a fuller corporate responsibility report, which can be accessed from Chief Executives of London Stock Exchange Group during my Chairmanship.
In very different ways their leadership and vision have nurtured the Group against a tumultuous economic backdrop, through an evolving industry Board changes landscape and against an unprecedented competitive environment.
In August 2014, the Groups Board was further strengthened with the appointment of Sharon Bowles as a Non-Executive Director.
Sharon brings As previously announced, the Board has asked Robert Webb, as Senior extensive knowledge of the European and global political and regulatory Independent Director, to chair the Nomination Committee through the trends impacting our business.
Her experience and insight will be of process of appointing a successor and it is intended that the search and great value to the Group, which continues to operate in an increasingly appropriate transition will be completed by the end of December 2015. complex and evolving regulatory environment.
In July 2014, Paolo Scaroni stepped down after seven years as a Director and Deputy Chairman.
We are grateful to Paolo for his significant contribution to LSEGs board since the merger with Borsa Italiana, providing sound and insightful counsel on the delivery of the Groups successful strategy.
Conclusion Chris Gibson-Smith At the Groups AGM in July 2014 I announced that it was the time to think Chairman about my own succession, having had the privilege of chairing the Board of Directors of LSEG for almost 12 years.
In my time as Chairman, LSEG has transformed from a largely domestic stock exchange to a global, diversied infrastructure and capital markets group.
Regulation, competition and technology have been catalysts for that change and I am proud of LSEGs position today as one of the worlds leading global participants in our industry.
The unwavering focus on, and implementation of, our strategy for diversication and growth, has resulted in a strong portfolio of markets, products and services across the trading cycle: from capital formation to information services, technology, clearing, settlement and risk management.
Importantly, the Groups rm commitment to operating as a neutral, open access venue remains a key differentiator and allows us to partner with stakeholders around the globe to facilitate the operation of stable and effective financial markets.
The Group is in a strong position, and continues to be as relevant to the successful functioning of the global economy and the stability and efficiency of the international financial system as ever.
The industry is still characterised by ongoing structural change and a dynamic regulatory environment, but I am confident that the Group is in an excellent place and that it will continue to thrive.
