14 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Chairmans statement Overview Execution of strategy London Stock Exchange Group continued to expand its global footprint and strengthen its position as one of the worlds leading, diversified exchange groups.
Our portfolio of market infrastructure businesses was further strengthened with the completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet Group, a leading provider of clearing services.
We have been pleased with the progress made to date to realise the benefits of the transaction and this will be a major focus in the year ahead.
We also made further progress realising the benefits of previous transactions through the global growth of businesses such as FTSE and MTS.
Over the past 12 months, there has been a sense of renewed optimism in Chris Gibson-Smith capital markets.
We have seen companies returning to the IPO markets Chairman to raise equity capital, with the highest number of flotations since 2007.
188 companies joined our markets and total money raised was over 34 billion across our equity markets in the past year.
The Group provides markets that help a broad range of companies to access equity and debt WE NEVER LOSE capital: in particular, we support efforts to help small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs access finance to enable their growth and development.
SIGHT OF THE The recent launch of ELITE in the UK, a programme dedicated to supporting high growth private companies, builds upon the success of a similar WIDER ROLE OUR initiative run by Borsa Italiana which has 150 participants.
In April, the first 19 companies signed up to the scheme, which will run in partnership with BUSINESS PLAYS Imperial College Business School, and is a good example of the Groups ongoing commitment to SMEs across Europe.
IN SOCIETY Our wider role We firmly believe that the Groups open access business model, which drives a partnership approach with our customers, helps facilitate the operation of stable financial markets which benefit our customers, regulators and society at large.
The model also promotes flexibility, transparency and choice which, in turn, helps drive our business forward.
Clearnet Group shares our open access philosophy, and provides its customers with risk management services across a broad range of asset classes, helping them to manage their own risk positions and capital efficiencies.
This contributes to a safer and more stable financial system.
We never lose sight of the wider role our business plays in society.
Our support for companies of all sizes, for open access and fair and transparent markets, has a significant impact on economic business activity, as well as job and wealth creation, and is core to our approach to corporate social responsibility.
In addition, the Group donated 1.66 million to charity in the past year, of which 1.01 million was donated through the Groups charitable Foundation.
To celebrate our third annual charity trading day, held in March, the Group invited representatives from our partner charities Habitat for Humanity, In-Presa, Friendship Works and UNICEF to open trading in London.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Chairmans statement 15 London Stock Exchange Group continues to look for ways to reduce its carbon The Group is therefore proposing a 4.5 per cent increase in the final dividend footprint and to improve its CSR activities through Group-wide initiatives such to 20.7 pence per share, resulting in a full year dividend of 30.8 pence per as Green Week.
We summarise our Corporate Responsibility activities on share, a 4.4 per cent rise.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders pages 36 and 37 and in a fuller corporate report, which can be accessed on the register as at 25 July 2014. from our website.
Accounting reference date Strengthened board risk management In order to create alignment of the financial years of LSEG plc and As a trusted, global financial infrastructure provider, we must ensure that LCH.
Clearnet, the Board has approved a change to the Groups accounting we continue to meet the highest standards of corporate governance and due reference date, moving from 31 March to 31 December, with effect from process.
As reported last year, the Group has split its Risk and Audit operating 1 April 2014. functions and made senior appointments within both teams.
We have also operated separate Audit and Risk committees of the Board, both benefiting Conclusion from contributions from Non-Executive Directors with considerable and It has been a strong year for the Group.
We have further expanded our specialist experience in these areas.
global business, building best in class capabilities as we grow.
We expect the substantial benefits of the LCH.
Clearnet transaction to continue to work Following the Groups AGM in July 2013, Baroness Janet Cohen, through over the coming year and the improving economic outlook and Sergio Ermotti and Gay Huey Evans stepped down as Non-Executive evolving regulatory landscape present further opportunity to develop our Directors.
The Board appreciates the valuable contributions that all three business.
We look forward to further growth in the year ahead.
made to the successful strategic development of the business.
In June 2013, Stephen OConnor and Stuart Lewis were appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
Stephen and Stuart bring considerable experience in credit and market risk, reflecting the significant and growing proportion of the Groups overall business that post trade and risk management now represent.
In January 2014, we also welcomed Chris Gibson-Smith Sherry Coutu and Joanna Shields to the Board, both of whom bring Chairman broad international management expertise and a strong track record of entrepreneurship and building businesses.
Financial performance and dividend The Group delivered a good financial performance, with adjusted income up 42 per cent to 1.21 billion, including contribution from LCH.
Clearnet for the first time.
Successful delivery on our stated strategy is also reflected in the strong share price performance over the last year.
