STRATEGIC REPORT 03 investors was that the acquisition had been well structured and created sensible diversification.
Chairmans The acquisitions of Pine Grove, Merrill Lynchs fund of fund business and statement Silvermine were smaller but received an appropriate level of review and challenge from the Board to ensure that they provided the right structure and cultural fit for the Group.
All three of these acquisitions further enhance Man Groups presence in the US.
Pine Grove and BAML further build out FRMs existing business.
The acquisition of Silvermine will transform our existing credit business at GLG and position us to benefit from strong demand for US CLOs and other credit strategies.
Progress against strategic objectives At our annual strategy review we revisited all our core strategic objectives on performance, growth, distribution and efficiency, and received in depth presentations from management teams on the performance of our individual investment managers and our progress in global sales and marketing.
These are themes to which we return at every Board meeting, with particular focus on areas of underperformance such as the GLG alternative strategies and the challenges of penetrating the key USmarket.
In November the CEO of Numeric gave us an overview of this new Jon Aisbitt, Chairman business covering the investment process, progress on the integration and planned sales and product launch activity.
We will continue our keen focus on the progress of all recent acquisitions and managements Overview of the year delivery of value against plan over the course of 2015.
The Board has also 2014 marked a year of significant progress for the Group with strong spent considerable time during the year discussing people and cultural performance at AHL, a full year of net inflows, the completion of the issues, encouraging management in its promotion of gender diversity at restructuring of the business and several key acquisitions that have senior management level and contributing to the development of a set materially enhanced our North American business.
This was against ofcore business values.
the backdrop of a volatile year for markets and a difficult year for hedge funds, albeit there was a wide range of returns across strategies.
The The Board continues to monitor progress on managements performance of Man Groups funds was mixed: our quantitative strategies implementation of the cost reduction programme.
We are pleased that and AHL in particular performed very well due to the reemergence the proposed savings have been achieved in full and ahead of schedule of trends and lower correlation between asset classes: our GLG long and our focus is now shifting more towards sustaining our efficiency only and FRM strategies performed well on an absolute basis: however and ensuring that our cost base enables us to address the risks and our discretionary alternative strategies suffered in line with the rest of opportunities in our business appropriately.
the Board approved the issue of $150 million of Tier 2 debt in September 2014 as a low cost and efficient source of funding to finance the The strong AHL performance resulted in us recording over double the expansion of our seeding programme.
level of performance fees earned in 2013 which, combined with the impact of cost savings, partially offset by a decline in net management Dividend fees, resulted in a 62% increase in adjusted profits for the year.
The Board In line with our previously stated policy, the Board has announced a focuses on adjusted profit as this reflects the recurring revenue and recommended final dividend of 6.1 cents per share, subject to approval costs that drive our future cash flows.
Statutory profit was $384 million by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
In addition, it is our intention to launch compared to $56 million in 2013.
While the Board is encouraged by the a $175 million share repurchase programme to return surplus capital to increase in profitability and the progress that has been made in 2014, shareholders, which will be conducted over the remainder of the year.
it remains focused on monitoring achievement against the Groups key strategic priorities as well as reviewing the performance of the businesses Board changes that have been acquired.
Fred Jolly, who had served on the Board since 2009 retired at the 2014 AGM.
After a wideranging search, John Cryan was appointed Acquisitions to the Board and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and The Board spent a significant amount of time during 2014 evaluating, Nomination Committee in January 2015.
John has extensive experience reviewing and assessing the strategic case for the acquisitions of of international financial markets having held a number of senior roles Numeric, Pine Grove, Silvermine and the Merrill Lynch fund of funds at UBS in a career spanning more than 25 years and brings excellent business BAML.
knowledge of the regulatory environment in which Man Group operates.
We wish Fred all the very best for the future and extend a warm welcome The Numeric acquisition furthers two core strategic objectives for the to John.
Group: first, to build a diversified quantitative fund management business with significant assets in nonmomentum strategies and second, to Outlook develop further its presence in the North American market.
In addition, The Board remains confident in the strength and energy of its executive Numeric has a longterm investment track record of strong relative and team and is proud of what they have achieved in creating a more absolute performance.
From a financial perspective, the transaction diversified business with multiple options for growth, improving Man provides the opportunity to achieve an attractive riskadjusted return Groups capital efficiency and completing the cost reduction programme on capital and was earnings accretive from completion.
In structuring ahead of schedule.
In 2015 we will continue to work together to drive the acquisition, we have endeavoured to align the interests of Numeric investment performance, diversify Man Groups product offering management with those of Man Groups shareholders.
and grow the business in pursuit of improved longterm returns for ourshareholders.
Having agreed the strategic case for the acquisition, the Board oversaw the due diligence process and gave approval to proceed.
Owing to its Jon Aisbitt size the acquisition required shareholder approval which was received Chairman in September 2014 with 99% votes in favour.
The feedback from key MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
