20 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have made the changes necessary for future growth I am excited to have joined bwin.
party at this interesting stage in its development.
There are some significant opportunities but also challenges ahead as we look to leverage our technology, further reduce costs and build shareholder value through development of our B2C and B2B businesses.
Philip Yea Non-Executive Chairman 2014 Revenue 611.9m 2014 Clean EBITDA 101.2m Mobile and touch represented 21% of gross gaming revenue 2013: 10% bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance Strategic report Governance Financial performance 21 I joined the Board in April 2014 conscious Board composition Industry consolidation of the challenges the Group faced and It is important that shareholders have Since May 2014 the external environment aware that a significant number of full confidence in the Board at any has continued to present the Group with key stakeholders believed that our full time, but particularly during such a a challenging backdrop.
Although it was potential was not yet being realised.
My early review of the clear that industry pressures meant My objective has been to take on board composition and structure of the Board that consolidation was a likely feature the views of shareholders, industry identified the benefits of change that of industry dynamics, the acquisition of specialists and colleagues, and then were announced prior to the 2014 AGM the PokerStars business by Amaya Inc. draw on my prior experience to work in May.
Rod Perry, who steps down at the announced in June 2014 was unexpected actively with the Board and the broader 2015 AGM, has been a valued member and raised concerns over both the likely management team to address each of our of the Board, serving latterly as Deputy trajectory of our nascent US business key challenges.
These include external Chairman, SID and Chairman of the as well as the future competitiveness of pressures such as the ever-shifting Remuneration Committee.
His experience, our European offering.
A new regulatory regulatory and technological landscape, counsel and constructive challenge will be regime and gaming tax in the United and closer to home, the challenges, missed.
Likewise in Helmut Kern, who also Kingdom together with changes in some self-inflicted, that have arisen steps down, we will be losing an energetic, VAT legislation within the EU present from the 2011 merger which created the inquisitive and experienced Chair of Audit additional headwinds for the industry current Group.
I should like to thank in 2015. them both for their contribution to the Operational focus Additional value will attach to firms with Group over an extended period and their scale, a diverse customer footprint and The reorganisation of the business into a support during my first year as Chairman.
Whilst as a label-led structure, the separation of our In Barry Gibson and Liz Catchpole I am Group we already possess each of these technology into a stand-alone unit and sure we have recruited strong successors attributes, the wave of recent corporate the simplification of our management who will be valuable contributors to activity has shown that consolidation structure have together addressed the key Board decisions as well as effective may be an effective route forward, where organisational weaknesses of our previous committee chairs.
it delivers strategic benefits supported approach by speeding-up decision-making, As part of my review it was also agreed by significant operational and financial reducing costs and returning the operational that Manfred Bodner, a co-founder of synergies.
Whilst we remain committed to focus to our customers.
I am pleased to bwin, could best contribute to the Groups and are accelerating the execution of our confirm that the targeted cost savings are development through a consultancy operating plans, the Board also continues on track, and will contribute 15m during arrangement, and as a consequence to explore whether certain business the 2015 financial year.
The renewed focus he stepped down as a Non-Executive combinations might deliver superior within our business and the continued Director at the conclusion of the 2014 outcomes for our stakeholders.
divestment of non-core operations have AGM.
The strength and global awareness allowed a simplified restatement of our Philip Yea of the bwin brand are testimony to his strategy under just three headings being: Non-Executive Chairman efforts over many years on shareholders to focus our B2C operations on nationally behalf.
I should like to record our thanks regulated and or taxed markets, to secure for this legacy.
Following the 2014 AGM, in long-term strategic partners for our B2B accordance with the rights attaching to business driven by sports betting, and to the shares acquired by SpringOwl, Daniel act responsibly.
Management have Silvers was nominated to the Board.
accelerated their efforts to deliver these Since his appointment in June, he has and in particular to put innovative product 50 51 Board of Directors brought new insights to our deliberations and customer insight as the key priorities Philip Yea Norbert Martin Weigold Sylvia Coleman Barry Gibson Helmut Kern 60 Teufelberger 49 57 63 49 50 and has been a valued and engaged Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed:9 April 2014 Appointed: 31 March 2011 Appointed: 4 April 2005 Appointed: 8 March 2013 becoming the Senior Independent Director Appointed: 31 March 2011 for their teams.
from 21 May 2015 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Appointed: 1 March 2015 Other current directorships Previous directorships Previous directorships Other current directorships Other current directorships Last re-elected: n a Non-executive: Vodafone Group Plc, Rocket Non-executive: Supervisory Board of the Executive: Jetix Europe NV formerly Fox Kids Non-executive: Reprieve Non-executive Executive: Beyond Consulting GmbH and member of the Board.
Internet SE, Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies European Gaming and Betting Association Europe NV, Walt Disney Television International Other current directorships Beyond Holding GmbH Investment Trust plc, Board of Trustees of the EGBA, betbull Holding SE and Guinness Mahon Development Capital Previous directorships Non-executive: HomeServe plc, British Heart Foundation Limited, PartyGaming Plc EMI Music International, EMI Music Europe, Supervisory Board: TC Invest AG and Other roles: Occupied key positions with Casinos Sony Music Entertainment Europe, Sony Music Harding Retail Group Limited bwin.
party services Austria GmbH Austria AG : consultant to the Novomatic Group Previous directorships ofcompanies: and co-founded a land-based Academic and professional qualifications Entertainment UK, Chickenshed Theatre Trust Previous directorships Previous directorships Executive: 3i Group plc, Investcorp, Diageo plc Joint Honours Degree in economics and Executive: Littlewoods Plc, BAA plc Executive:  Consulting Non-executive: Majid Al Futtaim Properties casino company currently listed on Nasdaq and accounting, University of Bristol Other roles LLP, Deloitte LLP, DFGJ Privatstiftung FN the Prime Market of the Vienna Stock Exchange.
Member of Action Aid and the Law Society Non-executive: William Hill PLC, Playtech plc, and Wellcon Gesellschaft fr Prvention und Dubai Leica Geosystems, Manchester United Member of theInstitute of Chartered National Express Group PLC, Somerfield plc, Plc HBOS PLC, Halifax plc, William Baird PLC Academic and professional qualifications Accountants of England and Wales Academic and professional qualifications Limelight Group Plc, SSP Group Limited Arbeitsmedizin GmbH.
oec Magister, University of Solicitor Honours degree in Law, Non-executive: bwin Interactive Entertainment AG Academic and professional qualifications Economics and Business Administration, Vienna University ofBirmingham Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Academic and professional qualifications Mag.
oec Magister, University of Accountants and has a degree in Modern Economics and Business Administration, Vienna Languages from Oxford University Executive Leadership Development Program at Columbia University, N. Y Licenced Management Accountant Austrian Chamber of Commerce BA History and MA Medieval History, University of Vienna Per Afrell Liz Catchpole Rod Perry Georg Riedl Daniel Silvers 57 50 69 55 38 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director  Director Appointed: 31 March 2011 Appointed: 31 March 2011 Appointed: 1 March 2015 Appointed: 10 June 2014 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: n a Appointed: 31 May 2005 Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Last re-elected: n a KEY TO COMMITTEES Last re-elected: 22 May 2014 Other current directorships Other current directorships Audit & Risk Committee member Other current directorships Other current directorships Other current directorships Executive: Androsch Privatstiftung and Executive: President of SpringOwl Asset Nominations Committee member other private foundations Management LLC Non-executive: Profi I AB and Profi II AB Non-executive: The University of Law, Executive: Ithmar Capital and Life Emerging Remuneration Committee member Sembcorp Bournemouth Water Markets Capital Non-executive: sterreichische Salinen AG and Non-executive: India Hospitality Corp.
IT Committee member Previous directorships group companies, AT&S Austria Technologie & and Forestar Group Inc Executive: Profi Management AB Previous directorships Non-executive: 3Legs Resources PLC Systemtechnik AG, Wiesenthal & Co AG, Vienna Indicates Chairman of the Committee Executive: Avant Homes and Chelsfield Partners, Insurance Group AG Wiener Versicherung Previous directorships Non-executive: bwin Interactive Entertainment Previous directorships Non-executive: International Game Technology, AG and Ongame e solutions AB Williams Lea Group Limited, Swiss Reinsurance Executive: 3i Group plc Gruppe and bwin.
party services Austria GmbH Universal Health Services, Inc Life and Health UK Limited Academic and professional qualifications Non-executive: Gulf of Guinea Energy BVI, Previous directorships Formerly a Member of both the Stockholm Academic and professional qualifications IndagoPetroleum Ltd and PartyGaming Plc Non-executive: bwin Interactive Entertainment Academic and professional qualifications BALANCED BOARD Fellow of the Association of Chartered AG, paysafecard.
com Wertkarten AG, B. S. in Economics and an M. B.
A. in Finance Stock Exchange Listing Committee and Certified Accountants and has an MBA from Academic and professional qualifications Allgemeine Baugesellschaft A. Porr AG, Loser from The Wharton School of the University the Board of the Swedish Accounting BSc Physics, University of Salford of Pennsylvania Standards Committee Cranfield University.
Bergbahnen GmbH Other roles Lawyer, Riedl & Partner Law Firm, Vienna Academic and professional qualifications For details on each Doctor juris, University of Vienna, Faculty of Law Board member see pages50 and 51 bwin.
