JPM Mercantile pp01 20 JPM Mercantile pp01 20 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 2 2 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2014, the Company delivered a positive share price return of 36.6%.
The Managers marginally outperformed the Companys benchmark with a return of 27.7% against 27.5% for the benchmark.
The discount narrowed significantly during the year from 15.3% to 9.8%.
Returns and Dividends Earnings per share increased by 48.0% for the year, from 32.1p to 47.5p, assisted by 10.3p of special dividend income.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 8.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 16.0p, giving a total dividend of 40.0p for the year, an increase of 11.1% on last years dividend of 36.0p.
The yield continues to compare favourably with the Companys peers.
The Board intends to continue to pay the three interim dividends of 8.0p per ordinary share during the current year ending 31 January 2015.
The level of the fourth interim dividend will be determined by the Board towards the end of the financial year and will depend on the level of dividends received and anticipated by the Company.
The Board is of the view that the importance of a strong revenue reserve in protecting the dividend flow for shareholders has been amply demonstrated in recent years.
The Company has seen an inflow of special dividends and these will assist in the rebuilding of revenue reserves for the future.
Share Buy backs During the year under review a total of 215,000 shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 0.22% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 2.74 million.
Share buy backs during the year under review have added approximately 0.4p to the net asset value per share.
The Boards objective continues to be to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The Board believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
Gearing The Company ended the year with gearing of 8.9%.
During the year the gearing varied between 3.0% and 11.1%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 10% cash to 20% geared, under normal market conditions.
Gearing is regularly discussed between the Board and the Investment Manager.
In addition to the Companys debenture gearing, the Company took out a bank facility on 6th November 2013 of 50,000,000, with Scotiabank Ireland.
This will allow the Company to make use of gearing to an appropriate extent in relation to total assets.
JPM Mercantile pp01 20 JPM Mercantile pp01 20 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 3 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3 Board In the Half Year Report published in September, I announced the retirement of Sir Richard Beckett which will become effective at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He has made a very positive contribution to our Companys affairs.
I am pleased to announce that the Board has agreed to appoint Harry Morley as a Director with effect from the close of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As CEO of Armajaro Asset Management LLP, with a legal and finance background, he will be a strong addition to the Board.
Other than Sir Richard, all current Directors will stand for annual re-election.
I refer you to the Directors biographies on pages 19 and 20 for further details.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, and that of the individual Directors including myself as the Chairman.
The Directors conduct an assessment of performance each year, which is compiled into a report to the Nomination Committee which in turn reports its conclusions to the Board.
Investment Managers As intimated in previous reports, the Board has taken an active role in discussing with JPMAM the management of the Companys assets.
This process continued during the year and with a review being carried out in early 2014.
The move to add resources to the investment management team, together with better defined sectoral, analytical and management responsibilities is beginning to bear fruit, and the Board looks forward to this trend continuing in the future.
The Board will continue to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
Share Register In common with other listed companies, the Companys share register is showing an increase in retail investment, driven partly by increased private client ownership.
Retail holdings totalled 63.1% of the register as at 31st January 2014 against 61.4% as at 31st January 2013.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD Under the AIFMD the Company has the option of being self-managed or alternatively must appoint a manager authorised under the AIFMD.
The Board has been advised by solicitors Dickson Minto.
The Board has concluded that the appropriate route forward is to appoint a J. P. Morgan JPM company as our manager.
However, the AIFMD regulations do not permit JPMAM to be appointed as our manager as it is a MIFID registered company.
Accordingly, the Company will enter into a new Investment Management Agreement IMA with another JPM company, namely J. P. Morgan Funds Limited JPMF.
JPMF will then delegate the actual management of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM and the Investment Managers will continue to manage the portfolio in the same way.
JPM Mercantile pp01 20 JPM Mercantile pp01 20 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 4 4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Chairmans Statement continued The documentation to put this change into effect is in the process of being agreed and is expected to be signed off by the Board very soon.
In addition the Company is forced to appoint a Depositary in addition to our current Custodian, J. P. Morgan Chase Bank, and has resolved to appoint Bank of New York Mellon.
This appointment is required to be made before 22nd July 2014.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty eighth Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 21st May 2014 at 12noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Outlook The last two years have provided exceptional returns for investors in small and medium sized UK companies, as the market rerated in anticipation of an improving economic environment.
We are now seeing signs of such improvements, and the market commentary has moved from the threat of a triple dip recession just 12 months ago, to broad based domestic economic recovery, as evidenced by The Bank of England forecasting UK real GDP growth of 3.4% in 2014, the fastest rate of growth since 2007.
The more domestically exposed small and medium sized companies should benefit from this growth, as they derive a significantly greater proportion of revenue from the UK than their larger counterparts.
As investor focus shifts from the expectation towards the required delivery of improved financial performance, we expect higher volatility in the market, particularly when combined with external factors such as emerging market worries, political tensions concerning the future of Ukraine, or the Scottish referendum.
Whilst such conditions may present threats, there will also be opportunities.
The new financial year has begun satisfactorily, and the Investment Managers will provide investors with a performance update at the Annual General Meeting on 21st May 2014.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 2nd April 2014 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Company Secretary 020 7742 4000
