The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder I am happy to present you with this years results and to let you know about The Merchants Trusts unbroken 33 year record of dividend growth.
Results Net Revenue Return and Dividends Our Net Asset Value NAV per share with debt at The strength of Sterling over the year means that par was up by 5.8% for the year to 31 January on a our revenue has been slightly impacted as we total return basis.
You will see from the summary receive some of our income in other currencies.
on page 8 of the Annual Report that the NAV However, the board is recommending a final per share with debt at market increased by 4.7%, dividend of 6.0p, which will make this our 33rd including net dividends.
This was around 2% behind consecutive year of dividend growth.
This requires our benchmark, the FTSE 100 Index.
As you can a small contribution from the revenue reserves that see from the analysis, also on page 8, this underwe have built up over the years.
performance was primarily due to the movement The final dividend of 6.0p will be paid on 22 May in the market value and the underlying cost of our 2015 to shareholders on the register on 24 April debt.
Our stock-picking was marginally behind the 2015.
This payment will make our total dividend for index but the fact that we were geared into a rising the year 23.8p, an increase of 0.8%.
As at 31 January market had a positive impact on performance.
2015 and after providing for the final dividend Over the longer term, it is pleasing to note that payment, the trusts revenue reserves amounted to the NAV with debt at market capital only, i. e. 11,513,458 10.6p per share.
excluding dividends, has outperformed the FTSE 100 Index by 14.8% over the past three years and by The Board 11.0% over the past five years.
During the year we saw some changes to the board as a result of the retirement of Henry Staunton on Although the companys share price fell slightly 31 December 2014.
Henry joined the board in May by 1.5% from 491.5p to 484.0p over the year, on a 2008 and was the Senior Independent Director total return basis which includes net dividends SID since May 2010.
We are very grateful to him the value of the shares increased by 3.3%.
As at 9 for his invaluable contribution to the work of the April 2015, the trusts ordinary shares yielded 4.9% board over the last seven years and wish him well compared with the 3.4% yield on the FTSE 100 for the future.
Before he retired, Henry was able to hand over There is more detail on the major contributors to responsibilities as SID to Mike McKeon and to the performance of the portfolio in the Investment work alongside our two new directors.
We are Managers Review starting on page 16 of the very pleased to welcome both Mary Ann Sieghart annual report.
and Sybella Stanley who both joined the board on 3 November 2014.
Mary Ann and Sybella bring a wealth of different experiences and skills to the board and I am very confident that they will make a major contribution to the future of your company.
Their biographies, and those of the other directors, are set out on page 30.
We are each standing for election or re-election this year and will continue to do this annually.
2 Chairmans Statement continued The board is Strategy and the Strategic Report Marketing Strategy recommending a final The Strategic Report starts on page 10.
The Merchants Trust has a strong profile and is a dividend of 6.0p, which popular choice for both professional and private will make this our 33rd At our annual strategy day last year we had our consecutive year of investors.
We attribute this to our consistent usual in-depth look at the matters we consider dividend growth.
philosophy: to provide investors with year on year at each board meeting, including our long term dividend growth and to deliver both capital and performance in relation to our sector, peer group income growth over the medium to long term.
and benchmark, together with a number of other We also understand the importance of sustaining topics including the gearing structure and the ongoing demand for the companys shares.
This future of our debentures.
Going forward, our is reflected in our commitment to promoting aim is to examine the macro environment in Merchants through active marketing and PR which we are operating in more detail and also to strategies to ensure the company remains a front further explore the various possibilities we have to of mind choice for investors.
The success of this refinance the proportion of our debt that reaches strategy is reflected in the positive press comments its maturity in 2018.
Merchants has received throughout the past year, a selection of which can be found overleaf.
Issue of new shares and the buy back of Of particular note are the endorsements of the shares into treasury company by professional investors in the national For much of the year to 31 January 2015 we saw press.
the companys share price continue to trade at a The companys website is the cornerstone of premium to the net asset value and during the year our investor communications, providing regular Merchants was therefore able to issue further new updates on company performance, views from shares.
Our policy is to issue shares at a premium our fund managers, dividend information and to net asset value, cum income with debt at market regulatory market announcements.
This is value, at a price that is not dilutive to existing especially important as the continued increase shareholders, to meet natural demand in the in share purchases via direct investor platforms market.
During the year we have issued 5,065,000 reflects the popularity of Merchants with selfnew shares, in total representing just over 48% of directed investors source: RD:IR.
A monthly email the 10,416,346 shares authorised for allotment for update, which includes the fund managers latest cash by shareholders at last years annual general views and relevant information, is now available meeting.
to subscribers who would like to receive more The other side of the coin is that, when the frequent updates on the company.
companys share price trades consistently at Merchants also supports the AICs Freedom in a discount to net asset value, shares can be Pensions campaign which looks at how investment purchased by the company.
Buying back shares companies can be used to help build a long term helps to reduce the volatility of the discount and pension portfolio.
Further details can be found on enhances the underlying NAV.
In addition to the home page of our website.
seeking renewed authority to buy back shares at the annual general meeting, we will also be asking for approval to be able to hold these shares in treasury rather than cancelling them.
More information is given in the Directors Report on page 38, but any shares issued or sold from treasury will be at a premium to the NAV to ensure that existing shareholders benefit from the transaction.
3 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Chairmans Statement continued The FTSE 100 Index AIFMD Annual General Meeting has recently passed the The EUs Alternative Investment Fund Managers The annual general meeting of the company will previous all-time high set Directive came into effect during 2014.
Under be held on Wednesday 20 May 2015 at 12.00 noon in 1999 but valuations in aggregate remain this legislation the company is designated as at Old School Building, 60 Victoria Embankment, reasonable and the UK an Alternative Investment Fund AIF and we London EC4Y 0JP, and we look forward to seeing as economy is recovering appointed our existing manager, Allianz Global many shareholders then as are able to attend.
Investors AllianzGI, as our Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
A new AIFM agreement Outlook was entered into with AllianzGI, on substantially The FTSE 100 Index has recently passed the the same terms as the management agreement previous all-time high set in 1999 but valuations in already in place.
In addition, HSBC Bank plc, the aggregate remain reasonable and the UK economy existing custodian of the companys assets, was is recovering gradually.
In the short term, the appointed as Depositary to provide oversight of general election may lead to a period of uncertainty the operations carried out for the company and to although the long term effect of a change of ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
government is not expected to be that significant, Some further details of the new arrangements are especially as the portfolio companies have on pages 34 and 76 of the annual report.
Our fund managers are finding attractive investments across a variety Gearing of sectors of the stock market although they also The company continues to have long term debt see areas of over-valuation, particularly amongst amounting to 111 million.
This is all deployed in the more defensive industries.
The companys the market for investment purposes.
Our gearing strategy remains to invest in a diversified portfolio averaged 21.3% throughout the year, compared to of high yielding UK listed companies to generate 21.7% last year.
We very much believe that this strategy is still appropriate for the future and that Merchants continues to be well placed Derivatives to benefit from the rapidly changing UK savings We have continued our policy of selectively writing market.
call options on a limited number of the trusts holdings.
Writing options has provided a small amount of additional income.
There are more details in the Investment Managers Review on pages 20 and 21.
Simon Fraser Chairman 13 April 2015 4 The company secured significant press coverage during the year.
co. uk 5 for full versions of these articles.
