Chairmans review 2013 14 was a pivotal year for Cable & Wireless Communications CWC.
We completed the disposals of two major business units, Macau and Islands during the year, and the disposal of Monaco in May: we refocused our business on a single geography in the Caribbean and Latin America and established a new operating hub in Miami: and we appointed a new Chief Executive and management team to Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Chairman lead our Company forward.
Our business is now an operationally focused telecoms group, with management that is able to react more eff ectively to the needs of our customers.
Following a strategic review we have set out a clear strategic vision to grow customer relationships and lifetime value by delivering unparalleled customer experience, where our customers defi ne excellence and we will be increasing our investment in the business to support this strategy.
After several years of transformation, we now have asolid fi financial position and operating platform to take the business forward.
Executive change A large amount of the credit for the reshaping of our Group must go to Tony Rice and Tim Pennington, our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Offi cer CFO who stood down from the Board inDecember 2013 and February 2014 respectively.
Over the past fi five years, Tony and Tim led CWC fi rstly through our demerger from Cable & Wireless Worldwide and then through a disposal programme involving the sale of businesses in Macau, Bermuda, Maldives, Channel Islands as well as severalother operations, which established the platform we havetoday.
Over their tenure CWC was able to return more than US$638million to shareholders through dividends and a share buyback programme.
On behalf of the Board, and shareholders, I thank themboth for their service to the Company.
We were pleased to welcome Phil Bentley as our new Chief Executive from January.
He brings a wealth of international experience built up from a successful career at BP, Diageo and Centrica, including most recently as the Managing Director of British Gas.
In the short time he has been in the Company, Phil has shown theleadership and operational rigour that we require in the business.
He is committed to delivering growth in revenue, maintaining the cost discipline and improving our returns on capital, as well as lifting expectations for the level of service our customers should receive.
Phil outlines his strategic approach onpages10 to 15.
04 Cable & Wireless Communications We are in the process of recruiting a new CFO to work alongside Th is years Annual report incorporates additional information Phil and drive our new strategy.
designed to improve our explanation of the Companys business model, strategy, performance indicators and risk.
We I am also delighted that our remaining Executive Director Nick have also enhanced the Audit Committee report and Directors Cooper has agreed to continue with the Company and help remuneration report, in line with guidance.
Th e Board has Phil with establishing our new operating hub in Miami and approved this Annual report and accounts as being a fair, building the organisation we need to succeed.
balanced and understandable assessment of CWCs position During this period of change we have been fortunate to have and prospects.
had a strong Board of Directors advising our management.
Th echanges in the way we operate the business will not change Our approach our approach to governance, which remains focused on driving Our infrastructure and services have an integral role in the the right behaviours within the business.
Our Independent communities we serve.
We have always sought to play an active Directors report on page 47 sets out this approach in detail.
part in our community, through supporting good causes, and being a reasonable employer.
Performance During the year we agreed with the Government of Th e We have started to see the benefi ts of our transformation and Bahamas to create a charitable foundation to support focus on a single geography.
In overall terms, we exceeded Bahamian community projects.
Th is foundation will be ourbudgeted plans for the year in both EBITDA and cash fundedby dividends received on a shareholding in our fl ow.
Indeed, our EBITDA growth of 5% year on year represents Bahamian business, BTC.
our best performance since demerger.
We also aim to maintain the highest standards of ethics and In addition to fi financial targets, our senior management have good governance, and Im pleased this was recognised during achieved focused personal objectives concentrated on the year with our joining of the Corporate Supporters Forum of reshaping the business and creating a platform for future Transparency International.
We have set out more information growth.
As well as completing the complex disposals on our approach to Corporate Responsibility and programme, the change of our operating model from a Sustainability on pages 31 to 33 of this report.
fi financial holding company to one of operational focus has been eff ectively implemented.
Our Miami operational hub is Th e achievements of the past year were only possible with the up and running and on time: the division of responsibilities commitment of our valued colleagues, whom I would like to between London, Miami and our regional operations has thank on behalf of the Board.
We have nearly 5,000 colleagues, beenredefi ned and several key senior management all of whom have played a part in ensuring we deliver a great appointments made.
service to our customers and a meaningful impact in the communities in which we operate.
Th roughout the changes With the change in operating approach, the nature of the tothis business, they have remained totally committed, and debate and discussion in Board meetings has evolved and we the position we fi nd ourselves in now is a tribute to them.
have seen the value of the broad experience of our Directors.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Th e challenges for the business have not receded in particular Chairman we still face diffi cult economies in several Caribbean markets, intense mobile competition in Panama and liberalisation of the mobile market in Th e Bahamas later this year.
We also clearly need to improve on our operational performance, particularly our networks and customer service, in several places.
Our new strategic plan has been designed to address these challenges.
An essential part of the plan will be a substantial increase inthe level of investment in the business over the next three years.
Th is investment is a prerequisite for achieving growth, as we strive to lead in mobile in all of our markets, and exploit the competitive advantage of our combined fi xed and mobile networks.
Our capital expenditure as a proportion of revenue will therefore be higher in the coming year, but the business will see the benefi t of the investment through improved revenues and earnings in thefuture.
As we enter a period of increased investment, the Company intends to also maintain the dividend as the core element ofshareholder remuneration.
Th e Board recommended a dividend of US4 cents for the 2013 14 year.
