Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 18 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This report is a new requirement and contains many of the disclosures previously contained within the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Chairmans Statement Performance Earnings and Dividend In the year to 30 April 2014 the net asset value total return, with Earnings per share were 4.87p compared with 4.68p, an increase borrowings at fair value, was 5.2% and the share price total of 4.1%.
The increase in earnings per share was a result of the return was 5.4%.
Over the same period the total return for the reduced number of shares in issue.
Income from fixed income FTSE World Index was 6.8%.
During the second half of the investments was lower than in the previous year as a result of Companys year the net asset value per share reached a record investment changes and this more than offset an increase in month-end high at the end of February 2014 but performance dividend income from the equity holdings and a reduction in deteriorated from this point as growth stocks suffered a setback.
Monks invests with the aim of achieving capital As can be seen from the graph below, performance was well growth rather than income and all costs are charged to the ahead of the comparative index until the last two months of the Revenue Account.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.45p, which Last year the Board and the Managers undertook a thorough together with the interim 0.50p already paid, would make the total review of the causes of performance in recent years and actions dividend for the year 3.95p, unchanged from the previous year.
were taken to address these, including the strengthening of the Investment Activity team managing the portfolio with the appointment of Tom Walsh Over the course of the year there was a net disinvestment of as deputy manager alongside Gerald Smith.
The success of these 91.1m comprising 85.4m in net sales of equities and 5.7m in steps cannot be evaluated over a period as short as a year, given net sales of bonds.
There were net purchases of equities in Europe the Companys objective of capital appreciation over the long and Australasia and net sales in all other regions.
The proceeds of term, but there have been encouraging signs of an improvement these sales were mainly used to repay debt and repurchase in trend, notwithstanding the influence of some extreme share shares for cancellation.
A 40m three year loan was repaid on price moves in the last two months of the period.
maturity at the end of February.
The Managers Portfolio Review on pages 8 to 10 contains more The level of gearing is managed in various ways, including through detail on the individual investments that made the greatest the use of exchange-traded derivative contracts and adjustments positive and negative contributions to performance as well as to the level of borrowings and cash.
At the start of the year the descriptions of the ten largest holdings.
effective gearing, taking into account futures and options positions, was 1% of shareholders funds.
Effective gearing has been Total Return Performance maintained at close to 0% throughout the year.
At the end of April figures rebased to 100 at 30 April 2013 the remaining debt was offset by cash and a single put option position on the index of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong 115 resulting in year end effective gearing of -1%.
110 Buybacks and Discount During the year to 30 April 2014 44.1m was spent on the 105 repurchase of 12.4m shares, representing 5.2% of the shares in issue at the start of the year.
Since the power to buy back shares 100 was first granted in 1999, 160m shares have been bought back and cancelled, representing 41% of the share capital at the start of that period.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if 95 A MJ J A S O N DJ F M A suitable opportunities appear.
2013 2014 The discount at fair value of 13.0% is unchanged from the previous Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Morningstar Baillie Gifford & Co. Dividends are reinvested.
The Board considers the level of discount and has authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit to NAV fair total return Share price total return continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest of those FTSE World Index total return shareholders who may need to sell some or all of their shares.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Our portfolio is diversified across a range of different types of Outlook shares, but is biased away from the very largest companies at The period since what has become known as the Global Financial present.
This is a time of rapid change, when traditional business Crisis has been in many ways an abnormal one owing to the models face increased risk of disruption from new entrants, often novelty of the policy responses.
This has involved reducing making better use of the possibilities created by the internet, and interest rates to extremely low levels.
For example, the Bank of our managers believe that there are better growth prospects Englands policy rate is the lowest since it was founded in 1694. among the disrupters than are generally to be found among the It has also involved the direct intervention of central banks in incumbents.
In the short term, the share prices of the newer financial markets through the purchase of government bonds and entrants tend to be more volatile, making returns on an annual various forms of asset-backed securities.
There have been more basis less predictable, but the long run return should be better.
conventional Keynesian style attempts to stimulate demand through government spending in some countries while other AIFMD countries have adopted austerity programmes in an effort to rein As mentioned last year, the Company is required to comply with in explosive growth in government debt.
The United States has the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
even managed to do both, initially combining pump priming at The Directive requires the Company to appoint an Alternative the Federal level with severe austerity at the State and municipal Investment Fund Manager AIFM which will be responsible for level and then cutting spending at the Federal level as a result of portfolio and risk management and will be regulated under the political deadlock.
The Board has agreed to appoint Baillie Gifford & Co The net result of these various actions has been extremely Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Baillie Gifford & Co beneficial for the holders of most forms of financial assets, partnership, as the AIFM with effect from 1 July 2014.
The Directive including shares, government and corporate bonds and property also requires the Company to appoint a Depositary and the Board as well as for the value of substitutes such as fine art and other has agreed to appoint Bank of New York Mellon to fulfil this function.
The more important benefit is probably harder to see, The Board namely what the aggressive action of central banks, and to a lesser extent governments, prevented from happening.
Were it not for Mr Karl Sternberg joined the Board on 1 July 2013 and was these various interventions we could have been tipped into a elected at the AGM on 2 August 2013.
He has brought extensive vicious downwards spiral of the sort experienced in the 1930s.
and relevant investment experience to the Board.
We expect to This at least is the argument advanced by those responsible for appoint an additional director in the first half of this financial year.
decisions that have punished prudent savers depending on income AGM from deposit accounts or forced to buy unattractive annuities in I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, order to bail out imprudent borrowers and lenders.
With some which will be held on 5 August 2014 at 11.00am at the Institute of signs of a return to more normal conditions emerging in a number Directors see map on page 51.
Our managers will give a short of countries, most notably the United States, it appears to be only presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
a matter of time before interest rates start to revert to more normal levels and the direct intervention in financial markets comes to an end.
While this may promise some relief for small savers and pensioners, it raises a question about the future direction of financial asset prices that have been boosted by the abnormal policies in place over the last five years.
With this shadow hanging over markets it does not seem prudent James Ferguson to borrow money to invest in equities, especially as valuations are on 17 June 2014 some measures at the upper end of historic ranges.
The alternatives to equity investment, however, tend to look much worse in terms of high valuations and consequent low expected future returns.
The owners of equity in companies may rank last after the lenders have been paid what is due to them, but they also get to participate in the growth of cash flows whereas lenders are currently being promised very little for the use of their money and the risk of not getting all of it back.
The return to normality may be delayed by the need to combat the risk of deflation taking hold in the Eurozone and by the acceleration of asset purchases by the Bank of Japan.
The US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England have also indicated that they expect to move very gradually.
It is therefore difficult to make a strong case for holding a large amount of cash at present and as a result we remain more or less fully invested, but not geared, with almost all of our investments in shares.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 03
