Strategic Report - Chairmans Statement Background At the beginning of 2014 investor sentiment and consensus held that global economic growth would accelerate, interest rates would rise and normality would return to prevailing economic relationships.
What ultimately transpired was almost exactly the opposite.
While the United States honoured its stated intention to stop printing money, the UK maintained its unorthodox policies and Japan created extra Kevin Carter liquidity.
By year end a distressed Europe was even Chairman considering such extreme measures, despite all the destabilising unintended consequences that they bring.
Now, Highlights in early 2015, the European Central Bank has finally Net Asset Value Total Return of 3.0% succumbed to the same approach used by their central bank Benchmark Total Return of 7.5% colleagues.
Behind every unit of currency printed remains Total Ordinary dividend increased by 4.7% compared with the belief that somehow additional liquidity holds the key to 2013 restoring economic growth.
Instead of lubricating the global 24m of new shares issued at a premium during the year economic engine, all this extra liquidity has, so far, become largely immobilised.
Technically, the velocity of money has Performance slowed dramatically thereby neutralising the policy It is disappointing to report that the Trust has objectives it was intended to deliver.
As a consequence, underperformed its benchmark in 2014, notwithstanding a economic activity remained hostage to stubbornly high positive Net Asset Value Total Return of 3.0% and an unemployment, declining real incomes, onerous debt increase of 4.7% in dividends compared with 2013.
Well servicing obligations and a puzzling failure to see any gains in above average capital gains achieved by global equity productivity.
In most consumer-dependent societies, markets in 2013 were unlikely to be repeated in 2014 and so consumer purchasing power was eroded, and savers in it proved.
With the Federal Reserve in the United States particular continued to endure negative real rates of interest finally reducing monetary stimulus and the rest of the world on their savings.
This has incentivised aggressive price struggling to grow, the environment for corporate profits competition from companies keen to stimulate demand to remained challenging, and already generally elevated equity produce top-line growth, especially as continued cost savings market ratings were unable to expand further in aggregate.
are becoming harder to generate.
Falling oil and commodity There was significant divergence between strength in the prices have added to prevailing deflationary pressures.
This United States, and weakness in most other major developed general environment has caused bond yields to decline indices.
Contrary to widespread expectations of twelve sharply, to levels not seen since the great depression of the months ago, sovereign bond markets responded positively to 1930s, or in some cases, ever.
Muted growth combined with rapidly declining inflation and performed well, more than lower inflation eliminated any need for tighter monetary making up for last years losses.
This primarily reflected a policy in 2014, especially in demand-deficient Europe.
Risk reduction in investors appetite for risk plus a sharp aversion amongst equity investors rose sharply, causing appreciation of the US dollar against all its major trading numerous global stock markets to decline in local currency partners.
The Benchmark Total Return of 7.5% was terms.
With corporate profits and dividend growth being positively affected by the performance of United States generally disappointing, market valuations appear very equities in which the Trust is underweight.
Against such a backdrop, the Trusts greater geographical diversification and focus on above immediate aspirations were to preserve capital and grow its average yield proved a drag on relative performance.
dividend, objectives which ultimately were achieved, albeit Temporary distortions in dividend payments of three Latin with periods of uncomfortable volatility along the way.
American holdings also accounted for a shortfall in overall revenues.
During the year the Trusts exposure to equities Dividends was reduced to below 100% for the first time since 2009.
We have been able to continue the trend of increasing the Commensurate exposure to fixed income securities rose as level of dividends paid, despite the impact arising from some the Trust took advantage of opportunities in periods of dividends in Latin America that were expected to be paid in market panic.
The Managers Review commencing on page 2014 which were accounted for in 2013, depressing the 10 of the Annual Report contains an attribution analysis dividends received in 2014.
A more normal pattern of which shows the factors affecting net asset performance.
Accordingly, three interim dividends of 10.0p 2013: three interims of 9.5p have been declared during the year.
Your Board is now recommending a Murray International Trust PLC 7 Strategic Report - Chairmans Statement continued final dividend of 15.0p 2013: 14.5p which, subject to the Investment Fund Manager AIFM and entered into a new approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will management agreement with AFML on 14 July 2014.
Under be paid on 15 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 7 this agreement, AFML has delegated portfolio management April 2015.
Subject to approval of the final dividend, the total services to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, which Ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 45.0p, an continues to act as the Companys Investment Manager.
increase of 4.7% from last year 2013: 43.0p.
B Ordinary There was no change to the commercial arrangements from shareholders will receive their capitalisation issue of B the previous investment management agreement.
In Ordinary shares at the same time as each dividend is paid.
addition, on the same date, the Company entered into a Accordingly, subject to approval at the Annual General depositary agreement with AFML and BNY Mellon Trust & Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be issued on 15 May Depositary UK Limited which replaced the previous 2015 with new B Ordinary shares equivalent in Net Asset custodial arrangements.
The appointment of a depositary Value to the recommended final dividend for the year just was a new requirement under the Directive which has ended.
The payment of the final dividend will necessitate a resulted in an increase in administrative costs estimated to transfer from the Companys brought forward revenue be of the order of 100,000 per annum.
These regulatory reserves of 5.3 million.
changes have also placed additional periodic disclosure requirements on the Companys AIFM, AFML.
As a result, your Annual Report contains an additional un-audited Issue of New Shares disclosure page which you will find at the end of this At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2014 document.
shareholders renewed the annual authority to issue up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital for cash at a Annual General Meeting premium to the prevailing asset value at the time of each issue.
During the year we have continued to see demand for This years Annual General Meeting will be held in Glasgow the Companys shares resulting in the issue of over two on 28 April 2015 at 12.30 p. m. at the Glasgow Royal Concert million new shares.
The Board will be seeking approval from Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3NY.
As at previous shareholders to renew the authority to issue new shares for AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an cash in 2015 and as in previous years, to avoid diluting the opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask asset value of existing shareholders, new shares will only be questions.
I should be grateful if you would confirm your issued at a premium to net asset value.
Resolutions to this attendance by completing the separate notice that will effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and accompany the Annual Report and returning it together with the Directors strongly encourage shareholders to support this an indication of any particular questions.
Subsequent to the period end, the Ordinary shares shareholders as possible will be able to attend.
have continued to trade at a premium to NAV per share albeit at a reduced level.
At the time of writing the inclusive Directorate of income NAV per share was 994.4p and the share price was Fred Shedden retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 1037.0p equating to a premium of 4.3% per Ordinary share.
Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2014 and I should like to A further 15,000 new Ordinary shares were issued reiterate the Boards thanks and appreciation for the subsequent to the period end.
contribution made by Fred as a Director of the Company and in his previous role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Gearing Following a detailed search using the services of an At the year end total borrowings amounted to the equivalent independent external recruitment consultancy, David Hardie of 188.6 million representing net gearing calculated by was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 May 2014. dividing the total assets less cash by shareholders funds of David has brought to the Board considerable expertise, being 13.8% 2013: 15.1% of which approximately 53.5 million a corporate lawyer by background who was until recently a has been drawn in Yen with the remainder drawn in Sterling.
partner of UK law firm, Dundas & Wilson now part of CMS During the year a new 15 million facility was agreed with Cameron McKenna, where he had also previously held The Royal Bank of Scotland and drawn in full, fixed for just various positions including head of corporate, managing over two years.
The Company has a Yen8.4 billon loan that partner and chairman.
is due to mature in May 2015 and the Directors are in the process of reviewing options to replace this facility.
Outlook In the business of investing, when attempting to predict the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive future, the past often provides some useful guidance.
The As I reported at the time of the Half Yearly Report, in August unfortunate truth is just how unrecognisable todays global 2014, the Company appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers economic landscape has become.
Government balance Limited AFML, to act as the Companys Alternative sheets bear the strain of record debts and unsustainable 8 Murray International Trust PLC financing obligations.
Central banks have presided over an expansion of their balance sheets that defies any prior experience.
Negative inflation rates are pressurising consumers to delay future purchases now that expectations of lower prices tomorrow are gaining credence.
Banks are beginning to charge customers to deposit cash and bond yields have reached unprecedented lows.
For investors the search for income has become a real challenge.
Such economic conditions offer little guidance for the future, other than to illustrate how difficult the investment landscape ahead might be.
In a world that is increasingly inter-dependent and reliant on free movement of capital, finding safe havens for savings at attractive valuations remains the challenge.
Your Board believes that the best way of navigating this environment is for the Trust to continue with its approach of broad portfolio diversification, emphasising high quality companies with diversified income streams, sound business models and competent management.
Kevin Carter Chairman 9 March 2015 Murray International Trust PLC 9
