Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans statement Ian Tyler Cairn is well positioned Senegal presents an exciting opportunity which we continue to evaluate.
As a result of the reduction in oil prices, Cairn is able to benefit from substantially lower industry costs as we prepare for the 2015 appraisal and exploration programme.
In India, we note the comments made by the new BJP Government about the impact of retrospective tax legislation and the negative signal it sends to the international investment community.
Our approach to date has been to focus on engagement with the Government of India and resolving this matter clearly continues to be a high priority.
Following the 2014 AGM, as part of our long term succession planning, a number of significant changes to the Board took effect: Sir Bill Gammell retired as non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in this role.
Dr Mike Watts, Deputy Chief Executive and Jann Brown, Managing Director and Chief Financial 2014 was a challenging During the second half of the year and continuing Officer stepped down as Executive Directors.
James into 2015, oil prices have fallen sharply, causing all Smith was appointed as Chief Financial Officer.
year both for Cairn and players in the sector to reassess capital plans and James joined in March 2014 from Rothschild where for the wider E&P industry.
On a more positive front, he had been a longstanding adviser to Cairn.
Finally, the Senegal discoveries in Cairns significant acreage Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director.
In January, Cairn was position offshore West Africa provide a material After standing down as Executive Directors, Mike notified of the previous opportunity for the company to create substantial and Jann continued in senior roles for six months shareholder value from a potentially world focused entirely on seeking to resolve the tax Indian Governments class asset.
decision to freeze our During the year, we reconfirmed our strategy to I would like to recognise and thank both our 10% holding in Cairn deliver value from discovery and development within employees and our contractors for all their hard India Limited, following a sustainable, self-funding business model.
Cairn is work and diligence in getting Cairn through a difficult well positioned with a strong balance sheet and is year in 2014 and into a position of strength as we the introduction well funded through to cash flow sustainability from look forward to 2015. of retrospective our North Sea assets.
Furthermore, managements early action, which included a fundamental tax legislation.
rationalisation of the business whilst retaining our core geological and exploration skills, has ensured that the company can operate effectively in the current low oil price environment.
Ian Tyler Chairman 9 March 2015 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
