CHAIRMANS MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS Overview of the year The Group delivered excellent underlying results despite volatile market conditions and further currency depreciation in our major market.
We also made significant progress towards our strategic targets.
Among the years highlights were the launch of OM Asset Management plc, our US institutional asset manager, on the New York Stock Exchange and Nedbanks acquisition of a 20% stake in Ecobank Transnational Inc. with its wide footprint of businesses in Nigeria and other sub-Saharan African countries.
Old Mutual Wealth acquired independent financial adviser group Intrinsic Financial Services and agreed the acquisition of UK wealth adviser Quilter Cheviot, and we disposed of several Skandia legacy businesses in continental Europe.
These are all important steps towards our vision of securing strong, value-adding and differentiated positions in the chosen markets in which we have I am pleased to report on the steady competitive advantage and the opportunity transformation of the Old Mutual Group.
Our vision is to be our customers most Our adjusted operating earnings per share were 17.9 pence, 3% lower than in 2013 trusted partner in financial services, taking but up by 13% on a constant currency basis.
firm steps as a responsible business leader In South Africa, the rands average exchange rate against sterling fell by 18% over the year, in each of our markets, while being clear reducing our reported earnings in sterling.
The strengthening of the Group balance sheet over the past few years provides us Patrick OSullivan with an appropriate foundation on which Chairman to transition during 2015 to the Solvency II regime, effective from January 2016.
Elevating good governance The Board embraces good governance as a driver of culture and outperformance in the long term.
I welcome the focus that our businesses are placing on treating customers fairly, ethical values, strong capital and risk management.
People in our businesses also appreciate this, as evidenced by our culture survey results and our top employer ratings in many markets.
Board developments The main Board changes during 2014 have been in executive roles: Ingrid Johnson succeeded Philip Broadley as Group Finance Director and Paul Hanratty joined as Chief Operating Officer.
Reuel Khoza will be retiring as a non-executive director at our AGM in May 2015, and also stepping down as Chairman of Nedbank.
We are very grateful for his contribution to the Board and to Nedbank over the past nine years.
His understanding of our markets and his own 4 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report finely developed leadership ideas have been and I am delighted that Gail Klintworth has As a responsible business of great benefit to the Group.
He will be joined our senior executive management team with a view to the long term, replaced on the Old Mutual Board by Vassi as Group Customer Director.
Her previous Naidoo, his successor as Nedbank Chairman.
experience with Unilever will ensure that we focus on areas where Old Mutual takes major strides with its social Diversity is one of our strengths, and we were we can make a material responsibilities in the years ahead.
Our pleased to be recognised recently for having Responsible Business Report gives further impact and create one of the FTSE 100s most improved Board details of our targets and progress in this area.
gender profiles, with female membership meaningful change.
Conclusion As shareholders will appreciate, the Responsible business Old Mutual Group has been radically We recognise that we have a responsibility restructured over the past several years.
and opportunity to give customers easier access When our recent acquisitions are integrated, to appropriate financial services products that it will be evident that we have created deliver real value, financial security and peace significant medium-term growth opportunities.
As a responsible business with a view Our challenge now is to deliver.
As always, we to the long term, we focus on areas where are entirely dependent on our employees to we can make a material impact and create win in the markets we serve.
On behalf of my meaningful change.
In this way we deliver Board colleagues, I thank them for everything better service to our customers, support the they do and look forward to delivering on communities in which we operate, and play our commitments.
an important role in helping to create a regenerative economic cycle.
We need to Patrick OSullivan upgrade our efforts in this area continually, Chairman We are clear about the role we play in society, and our responsibility to help drive positive change.
Our purpose is to enable our customers to thrive by helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals, while we invest their funds to secure a positive future for them, their families, their communities and the world at large.
Old Mutuals focus on responsible business is nearly 170 years old.
It is now being refreshed through many positive initiatives across our five pillars of being responsible to customers, Gail Klintworth employees, communities, the environment Group Customer Director and in our investments.
We will be raising our ambitions, especially in making a difference through our unique contribution of enabling financial wellbeing and driving responsible investment.
We look forward to partnering with our many stakeholders on this journey.
Old Mutual plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
