CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The last three years our traditional timespan for measuring performance were a switchback ride.
During the first two years we were well ahead of our comparator, the FTSE All-Share Index All-Share, our share price being up by 12.3% compared to the All-Shares 7.5%.
However, for reasons explained by Sebastian Lyon, our Investment Adviser, in his report on the page opposite, our share price in the year to 30 April 2014 not only underperformed the All-Share by 12.9% but also even more distressingly, since our primary aim is capital protection recorded an absolute loss of 7.0%.
While last year we outperformed the All-Share over three, five and ten years, this year we underperformed over each of those periods.
We have made a number of changes to the Annual Report to make it more informative about the workings of our investment philosophy and style, and at the forefront is a greater emphasis on our relative lack of share price volatility.
For instance, while the Key Features page shows us lagging slightly behind the All-Share over the last ten years thanks to our disappointing 2013-2014, the second chart on page 5 shows that our increase in share price has typically been achieved in return for much less volatility than that of the All-Share.
Volatility is the other side to price performance and the two new charts on page 5 demonstrate how much less volatile i. e. steadier we have been compared to most trusts in the AIC Global Sector.
This accords with our objectives of seeking to avoid capital loss and of taking on a level of risk which will usually be less than that of our comparator.
Other changes to the Key Features make it easier to see how the different constituents of the portfolio have varied in relative importance over a range of time periods, and the Portfolio table page 8 now also gives information about purchases and sales during the year.
At the General Meeting in December 2012 shareholders voted to break the link between the dividend and inflation, leaving the Board better equipped to take any steps necessary to achieve our primary objective of capital protection.
However, although we no longer have an income requirement we retain an income awareness, and are pleased to report that without compromising the way we invest we were able to maintain the dividend at 5.60 per share for the year to 30 April 2014.
We also hope, barring unforeseen circumstances, to be able to maintain it at this rate in the current year.
For those shareholders who wish to draw a regular cash amount from their investment in Personal Assets, our Cash Withdrawal Option within our Investment Plan allows a quarterly sum of 500 or more to be withdrawn through topping up dividends with the proceeds of the sale of shares.
This facility is also available to holders of Personal Assets ISAs, and in the 2014 Budget the ISA maximum was increased to 15,000.
This means that a married couple can now save 30,000 a year into a fund which will be tax efficient on income and wholly free of tax on capital gains.
Issuing or buying back shares is cyclical in response to demand.
During the year the Company issued 61,683 new shares for net proceeds of 21.4 million and bought back 37,992 shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of 12.3 million.
7,855 of these were subsequently reissued from Treasury for proceeds of 2.6 million.
18 September 2014 sees the referendum on Scottish independence.
The Board, like many other Boards of Scottish-registered companies, is of the opinion that no action can usefully be taken before the result of the referendum is known.
However, it is important to note that we will not be affected by any short term market uncertainty in the period before the referendum, in that we at present have no Scottish-registered companies in our portfolio, our discount control policy is enshrined in our Articles of Association and the Company is and will continue to be listed on the London Stock Exchange and quoted in Sterling.
Our subsidiary, Personal Assets Trust Administration Company PATAC, continues to see its business develop and its contribution has helped our Ongoing Charges Ratio formerly known as the Total Expense Ratio to fall to 0.86% compared to last years 0.89%.
PATAC will during the current year become the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM in terms of an unsought European Directive on investment funds such as ours.
This exercise will cost you a little money and provide you, regrettably in our view, with no discernible benefits of any kind.
Hamish Buchan 6 Personal Assets Trust PLC INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT Over the year to 30 April 2014 the net asset value per share of Personal Assets Trust PAT fell by 5.1%, while our comparator, the All-Share, rose by 6.8%.
Last year we said that our investment style tends to lead us to outperform in falling markets and lag in sharply rising markets.
To underperform a rising index is one thing, but actually to lose money albeit, we believe, only temporarily is another, and calls for a full explanation.
Taking our equity holdings first, our preference is for compounders companies that can generate high and sustainable returns on invested capital, preferably rewarding us with a rising income stream.
But such stocks are often ignored when there are spicier opportunities on offer, and the year just past was no exception.
A year in which Greek government bonds rose by 50% and International Airlines Group formerly British Airways was one of the best performing shares in the FTSE 100 Index was never likely to be a vintage one for PAT.
Some of our equity holdings made good progress, especially the software companies Microsoft and Sage we reduced both holdings during the year after strong share price performance.
Others, such as Coca-Cola and Diageo, suffered from their currency mix and from slower demand from emerging markets.
Ian Rushbrook, the founder of Personal Assets, used to describe such stock price movements as corks bobbing up and down in the water.
They do not distract us and occasionally they present us with the opportunity to add to our favoured holdings at attractive valuations, as we did with GlaxoSmithKline, Coca-Cola and Philip Morris.
We made a couple of additions to the portfolio.
In keeping with our aim of investing in strong, sustainable franchises, both of the businesses we invested in have been around for well over a century.
The first was Dr Pepper Snapple, which owns the Dr Pepper trademark first registered in 1885, the year before Coca-Cola.
This soft drinks business is an attractively valued franchise with an outstanding track record in rewarding its shareholders with its free cash flow via dividends and buybacks perhaps dull, but very worthy.
The second was American Express, established as an express mail business in 1850 and benefiting today from sustained strong growth in electronic payments.
Cards in issue and card transactions have grown significantly faster than expenses and the company is also an inflation hedge with transaction values increasing in line with prices.
Overall, the performance of our equity holdings was unexciting.
But where did we actually lose money?
Ben Bernankes hint last June that he would taper quantitative easing QE hurt all asset classes except cash.
Our index-linked bonds fell in sympathy with conventional bonds, while gold became a four letter word, suffering its biggest sell off since the crisis in 2008 as it fell by 12% in US dollars 19% in sterling terms.
Miners, to which we have a more modest exposure, also fell sharply.
We are not gold bugs, committed to holding bullion for ever.
But we believe that the preconditions for a secular bull market in gold remain in place.
Negative real interest rates in all major currencies are likely to prevail for many years to come and the only prospect of positive real interest rates is from a spell of deflation, which the Federal Reserve is determined to avoid.
We are in the midst of an extraordinary and unprecedented monetary experiment which is unlikely to end well.
More than five years after the financial crisis, interest rates remain at emergency levels in the case of the UK, at a 300 year low and there is little sign of an appreciable increase any time soon.
Stock markets are back at their all-time highs in nominal terms, at least, but valuations are overstretched and vulnerable, and we have yet to see the negative consequences of the USs tapering of QE on markets which have grown addicted to this sweet poison.
Money printing has failed to secure the desired escape velocity for western economies and corporate earnings have stagnated over the past two years.
The disconnect between the economy and the stock market has become ever wider.
Those piling into equities today may well be locking in very low prospective returns with commensurate high volatility and downside risk.
Prudence will not always be punished.
It is reckless behaviour that is ultimately penalised with permanent losses.
Stock market bubbles make investors look foolish either before or after the peak.
The last year gives no doubt as to where we stand.
1 Based on the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
2 Personal Assets Trust became self-managed in 1990.
