2 Strategic Report Section Chairmans Statement Michael Moule Results Regulation For most of our financial year global technology has been You will notice a few changes to the annual report as we one of the leading sectors in a good year for developed are now obliged to provide a strategic report with certain equity markets.
However a very promising performance prescribed content under an edict called the Narrative was curtailed by a rapid reversal for the sector in the last Reporting Framework.
We seem to be world class within six weeks of our financial year when US investors the EU at introducing new regulations, good news for switched from growth to value stocks.
In sterling terms lawyers and accountants, but will it always help and protect the Dow Jones World Technology Index still managed a shareholders?
We are now well advanced to complying 13.1% return versus 6.8% for the FTSE World Index, and with the post Madoff stable door policy introduced by 11.0% for the S&P 500.
The managers policy of investing the EU called the AIFMD.
The Board decided that the most in faster growing mid and smaller sized companies helped practicable and cost effective AIFM Alternative Investment build a significant performance above the benchmark, but Fund Manager was to appoint Polar Capital rather than this cushion was completely eroded by the painful setback a third party or the Board itself.
A sub-committee of the in late March and April.
I am relieved to report a return of Board spent time meeting the few viable candidates willing 11.2% in Net Asset Value per share and a rise of 10.9% for to act as Depositaries.
They soon ascertained that our share price, in a bittersweet year for shareholders.
separation of the depository function from the role of safe custody was inefficient.
We concluded that consolidating Perhaps the most surprising feature was the contrast both roles at HSBC was the best result as we could benefit between geographical regions.
The debt laden, growth from a cheaper bulk rate negotiated for all the Polar challenged equity markets of the USA, Europe and the Capital trusts.
We are on course to comply with the UK provided the best returns in a very broad based upturn July 2014 deadline for both appointments.
which favoured mid and small companies.
By contrast most Asian and Emerging markets have suffered modest The US tax authorities are very keen to keep tabs declines, unsettled by fears of US tapering, Chinese growth on overseas income received by US citizens wherever and debt fears, territorial disputes, and currency instability.
We have very few, if any individual US Japan lost momentum later in the year with doubts about shareholders, however to avoid a doubling of withholding the longer term benefits of President Abes experimental tax from 15% to 30% on dividends we receive from our economic policy.
A detailed analysis of our results in all US investments we have now registered with the IRS markets and the currency headwinds we endured can under the unfortunate sounding FATCA Foreign be found in the managers report on pages 8 to 27.
Subscription Shares Directors The late March decline in US tech stocks was unsettling We have a duty to manage succession which involves for subscription shareholders as the premium of the finding the right blend of experience and diversity to share price and NAV over the 478p subscription price was challenge the manager and look after shareholders whittled away to zero by the final acceptance date on interests.
David Gamble who joined the Board in 2002 31March 2014.
A total of 3.988 million new shares were has indicated his intention to retire from the Board in issued over the three year life of the sub-shares, 15.7% of September 2015, and we expect to appoint a new director the total.
There was minimal dilution and the total number in the first half of 2015.
Rupert Montagu and I both joined of issued ordinary shares increased by 3.1% as a result of the Board in January 2007 and after 2016 we hope to the sub-share conversions over the three years.
manage our succession as smoothly as possible, but for continuity we will not leave the Board in the same year.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 06 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 We conducted an internal review of the Board and the leaves little appetite for a material increase in interest chairman in March 2014.
We have five independent rates.
Thus equities may remain the asset of choice for directors which we feel is the right number for an longer than usual with a rare, but possible euphoria investment trust of this size and we are almost unique leg to ensue.
in having the benefit of the former fund manager as an Fortunately the global technology sector has a cycle of its unpaid Board member.
He is willing to stand down at own making with the internet seemingly unstoppable in its any time but the situation works well for the Board and voracious inroads into the everyday life of business and shareholders as our current manager does not feel in any individuals.
There is consequently no shortage of exciting way inhibited by his presence and we all benefit from his new companies for our managers to assess but product long experience with all types of past technology cycles.
life cycles and patent protection appear to get shorter, and We all stand for annual re-election and I would ask sifting the few winners from the myriad of losers is no easy shareholders to vote in favour of each re-election despite task.
Finally I would like to thank our management team two directors having served more than nine years.
for all their hard work and dedication on our behalf, and to congratulate Ben and Neil for winning the AIC award for AGM and Shareholder Information best annual report in the specialist trust category.
The AGM will be held at 12 noon on 4 September 2014 at the RAC Club, Pall Mall, London.
This is always a lively event and the formal business will be preceded by a Michael Moule presentation by the manager.
We are probably several Chairman years away from providing a live AGM webcast, instant electronic voting and twitter feed, however if you cannot attend the AGM I would urge you to look at our new website.
The site seems turbocharged, so even for me in rustic band Sussex all information and documents appear very quickly, and the AGM presentation and proxy votes will be posted on the site after the AGM.
Outlook In developed equity markets calendar year 2013 produced very little earnings growth but a big increase in the valuation of the average company.
Further upward progress in equity markets is heavily reliant on evidence of sustainable sales and earnings growth, leading to increased individual price risk if this is not forthcoming.
For both top down strategists and bottom up stock pickers the five year old bull market is showing signs of maturity reflected in new issues volumes, hostile takeovers and sector rotation.
Globalisation, the internet, and flexible labour markets are helping keep inflation low, and the slow speed of economic recovery in the USA and Europe Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 07
