Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77 Governance Introduction from the Chairman However, only Moneybarn has met the boards business location every year and we continue exacting demands of a strategic acquisition and to invite the managing directors of the divisions this acquisition marks a key addition to the groups including Moneybarn from August to attend product offering.
the board meetings to present strategic and operational reports on their divisions.
UK Corporate Governance Code Further information on this is set out on pages 85 to 87, including details of the action points that Our approach to governance is based on the have been identified from this process.
I intend concept that good corporate governance to address these action points over the course enhances longer-term shareholder value and sets of 2015 and I will meet with the non-executive the culture, ethics and values for the rest of the directors to review the issues raised during the group.
Consistent with our belief in the importance board evaluation process.
As part of the 2014 of corporate governance, I am pleased to report board evaluation process, I am already assessing that we have complied in full with the principles the training needs for the independent nonand provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Dear shareholder executive directors for 2015 so that tailored Governance Code which was published in training plans can be developed.
This was my first year as Chairman and I am September 2012 the Code.
A copy of the delighted to update you on the key corporate Code can be found at www.
Focus on risk management governance highlights in 2014.
Corporate policies As reported last year, the transition to regulation This year has been an exciting and challenging by the FCA has meant that in 2014 there has been We have embedded the corporate governance year with changes to the composition of the increased focus on customer and conduct risk.
principles in our corporate policies which are board and committees in January, changes to the updated annually to reflect changing requirements committee chairmanships in March, the change Following a review of the groups risk management and best practice.
The corporate policies were in regulator to the Financial Conduct Authority framework and processes, we agreed it was updated in July to reflect the change in regulator FCA from the Office of Fair Trading OFT appropriate to have the risk advisory committee and the new requirements on customer and and Financial Services Authority FSA in April review conduct risk rather than establish a conduct risk.
The corporate policies reflect the and the acquisition of Duncton Group Limited sub-committee.
The risk advisory committee best practice we expect from our divisions and Moneybarn in August.
terms of reference have therefore been extended key corporate functions.
They are designed to to specifically include oversight of customer and As you are aware from our previous reports, strengthen the corporate governance framework conduct risk within the divisions and the managing we take corporate governance and the reporting and provide an overview and guidance on director and chief risk officer of each division will of it very seriously and I am extremely pleased expected working behaviours which ensures attend committee meetings for this agenda item.
to report that we won Best Board Disclosure consistency throughout the group in accordance at the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and We have continued to maintain our focus on with its vision and values.
Further information Administrators Excellence in Governance monitoring risk through the work of our audit and is set out at page 81 of the report.
Awards 2014 for our 2013 Annual Report.
It is risk advisory committees.
Further information on our aim and intention to uphold this high standard risk management can be found on pages 90 to 96.
Board evaluation of reporting in this years board disclosure.
A number of action points arose from the 2013 Board composition On appointment, I agreed to develop my external board evaluation which were reported Following a formal performance evaluation relationship with the Chief Executive, as I believe on in last years annual report.
These included carried out in January 2015, the nomination this is central to the smooth running of the board.
considering opportunities for board members to committee agreed to extend Rob Andersons term I have set up monthly meetings for the two of spend more time with senior management and of appointment by three years.
The committees us and these will continue in 2015. for non-executive directors to spend more time recommendation was based on Robs recent and in the businesses.
relevant operational experience, knowledge of Moneybarn An internal board evaluation was undertaken the group and the fact that his length of tenure The acquisition of Moneybarn in August was in December 2014.
As part of this review, I am creates a balance with the two new non-executive a key highlight for the board in 2014, being the pleased to report that the board felt that there had directors who joined the board in January 2014. first acquisition approved by the board since the been improved interaction with the businesses demerger of the international business in 2007.
I am pleased to report that the board accepted the and that contact with the senior management The board has received and assessed several nomination committees recommendation at its teams had increased.
Earlier this year I also acquisition opportunities since the demerger meeting in February 2015. assigned each of the non-executive directors to of our international business, all of which a division in order to gain further insight into and Manjit Wolstenholme represented an opportunity to expand the groups Chairman a better understanding of the business.
The board product offering in the non-standard credit sector.
24 February 2015 also agreed to hold a board meeting in a different
