04 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Group overview Chairmans statement Value for our customers and growing returns for our shareholders am pleased to introduce in depth in our management team and Prudentials 2014 Annual Report.
the Board has been very focused on The Group has produced another succession planning.
At the time of writing, Prudential was established I strong performance, delivering I can say that we expect to announce a new on the principles of integrity, value to our customers, benefits Group Chief Executive very shortly.
to the communities in which we Our third key strength is our robust Those principles are still operate and good returns for corporate governance.
Good governance central to our culture, while our shareholders.
is critical to success in financial services.
we also take the initiative to This performance has been driven by It is one of the factors that has allowed capture new opportunities.
a consistent focus on the long term and Prudential to flourish for more than a on the needs of our customers.
We build century and a half, by ensuring our sustainable businesses and we know that purpose and values inform the behaviours the service we provide to our customers is and culture of our organisation, and that Paul Manduca central to this goal.
As our businesses grow decisions are taken within proper, effective Chairman and we continue to develop our highand transparent reporting structures.
performing teams in Asia, the US, the UK, Central to good governance is an Europe, and now in Africa, we ensure that experienced and skilled Board that is able this clear focus is at the core of everything both to support the executive and provide we do.
appropriate challenge, and we have We also make sure that we adhere to continued to meet our commitment to our founding values.
We were established implement changes that strengthen in London in 1848 on the principles of our Board.
More In line with that commitment, we have than 166 years later, those principles are made a number of changes.
In April 2014 still central to our culture, while we also we announced that our Group Chief Risk take the initiative to capture new Officer, Pierre-Olivier Boue, was joining opportunities.
It is important that at a large, Our commitment to creating sustainable complex financial services business such as value for our customers and our principled ours, the Chief Risk Officer is represented, approach enable us also to deliver strong and Pierre-Olivier brings extensive returns for our shareholders.
I am delighted expertise and experience to the Board.
to report that all four of our major business At the same time, our former Chief Risk units have made significant contributions Officer, John Foley, stepped down from to our profitability in 2014, with Asia the Board, while continuing in his role as remaining our primary focus for growth.
I would like Our success is based on a number of to thank John for his contribution and key factors.
First, we have a clear and I am pleased that he is continuing to fulfil disciplined strategy, focused on the long the vital role of Group oversight of term.
Following our success in achieving financial investments as a member of our previous demanding set of targets, at the Group Executive Committee.
the end of 2013 our executive team set new In October we also announced that Lord objectives to reach by 2017.
These are just Turnbull, who has been a member of the as testing as their predecessors, and I am Board since May 2006, as well as Chairman pleased to say that we are making solid of the Remuneration Committee since June progress towards them.
2011, would be stepping down at our next Our second key advantage is the Annual General Meeting.
I would like to strength of our leadership.
Tidjane thank Lord Turnbull for his contribution Thiam has been an exceptional servant over nine years, which has been of of the Group since 2008, first as Chief considerable value to the Group.
Financial Officer and then as Group Chief He will be succeeded as Chairman of the Executive.
As announced, he will be Remuneration Committee by Anthony leaving Prudential once his successor is Nightingale CMG, who will also join the appointed.
We will be sorry to see him Nomination Committee.
go but understand his desire to take on I am determined to ensure that our a new challenge elsewhere and we wish Board makes the greatest contribution that him every success in his new role at Credit it can to Prudentials success, providing the Suisse.
We are fortunate to have strength best possible governance, forming a clear Group overview Chairmans statement Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 05 channel for discussion with shareholders I am particularly proud of the thousands and maintaining good relationships with of our employees who take part in these 36.93p regulators.
The changes we have made in activities.
Last year our colleagues full-year dividend 2014 ensure it is well placed to deal with contributed more than 62,000 hours both the opportunities and the challenges of their time to help improve the lives we face.
The fourth key factor in our success is Many of these volunteers take part in 10% that we benefit from a stable and highincrease on 2013 the Chairmans Challenge, our flagship quality shareholder base.
We respect our volunteering programme.
Last year I took shareholders views and we take the time the opportunity to visit our winning 2013 and effort to engage with them.
Being Chairmans Challenge project in Hong accessible and transparent towards our Kong, and it was highly rewarding to see shareholders is essential to our success, the great work our people are doing there and we are ensuring that we do everything and the tangible benefits they are creating.
we can to understand their needs and meet The 2014 Chairmans Challenge their requirements.
programme was our most successful The Board has decided to rebase the yet, with more than 6,000 employees full-year dividend upwards by 10 per cent, volunteering their time across more than reflecting the 2014 financial performance 25 projects.
These included a workof the Group.
In line with this, the directors readiness and financial literacy programme recommend a final dividend of 25.74 pence in Michigan, a life skills programme for per share 2013: 23.84 pence, which children in Thailand, a homebuilding brings the total dividend for the year to project in India and a series of business 36.93 pence 2013: 33.57 pence.
This and enterprise lessons for primary rebase has been made possible by the schoolchildren in Tower Hamlets in London.
continued exceptionally strong Our volunteers on these many different performance of the Group.
projects are achieving great things.
I will Although the Board has been able to continue to work with our excellent recommend such a rebase in 2014, the corporate responsibility teams to increase Groups dividend policy remains further our impact in these areas.
The Board will maintain its Finally, I would like to thank all our focus on delivering a growing dividend employees for their contribution to another from this new higher base, which will strong year for Prudential.
The skill, continue to be determined after taking into commitment and hard work of our people account the Groups financial flexibility and in all our businesses enable us to continue our assessment of opportunities to executing our successful strategy and generate attractive returns by investing delivering for our customers, our in specific areas of the business.
The shareholders and the communities in Board believes that in the medium term which we operate.
I am confident that with a dividend cover of around two times that strategy, our strong management and is appropriate.
the commitment of our people, we will Alongside the benefits provided by our continue to provide excellent value for core activities, we also engage in corporate our customers and growing returns for responsibility programmes in the markets our shareholders.
in which we operate around the world.
In partnership with charitable organisations, we provide long-term funding and deploy the expertise of the many volunteers from our workforce on projects that help to improve the lives of individuals and strengthen communities in many different ways.
Paul Manduca In 2014, we increased the scale of Chairman our corporate responsibility activities, deepening the impact we are having in this O ur strategy and operating principles page 18 area.
The projects we support range from encouraging street children in Indonesia to develop life skills and helping with disaster preparedness across South-east Asia, to teaching new skills to financially 29.2bn disadvantaged people in the US and EEV shareholders funds providing apprenticeship opportunities in our businesses here in the UK.
We are also equivalent to beginning equivalent programmes in our new markets in Africa, offering much- 1,136p needed scholarships in high schools and per share supporting students of actuarial science.
