Introduction Chairmans statement We carried out a very successful share placing in April, which raised 23.6 million.
We also continued to invest in the business to ensure that our people and infrastructure can support future growth.
Important investments completed in 2014 were the upgrading of our online portal for clients and intermediaries, the development of our finance systems and the completion of our data centre outsourcing project.
We continue to strengthen our investment process and have bolstered both our research function and our investment risk management framework.
In accordance with our succession plan, Philip Howell became chief executive on 1 March 2014.
The handover from Andy Pomfret went very smoothly and reflects well on them both.
Philip has made a strong start as chief executive and has set a clear course for the business both internally and externally.
Overview of 2014 Also in our plans, James Dean succeeded Oliver Corbett as chairman of the audit committee on 3 June 2014 and we are 2014 was a challenging year for most investment markets, already benefiting from his considerable skill and experience.
which became increasingly volatile in the second half.
Despite this, Rathbones had another good year and achieved strong and broad-based growth.
Our total funds under management grew by 23.6% over the year to 27.2 billion.
We warmly Strategy welcomed more than 5,000 new clients during the year.
As I mentioned last year, the development of our strategic thinking and processes was a priority for 2014.
Since the We made two significant acquisitions in appointment of a new chief executive we have spent considerable time developing our strategy for the medium 2014, which added 2.6 billion of funds term.
We have agreed that we will not change or dilute our under management, and throughout core discretionary investment management model but will proactively seek related opportunities for growth.
In particular, the year we continued to attract we will provide more services for high net worth clients and experienced investment managers.
will widen our distribution capability.
This evolutionary strategy has been presented to all staff in town hall meetings.
It was also the focus of separate presentations to investment We made two significant acquisitions in 2014, which added analysts and major shareholders.
The strategy, presented on 2.6 billion of funds under management, and throughout pages 16 and 17 of this report, provides clarity in articulating the year we continued to attract experienced investment both what we will do, and what we will not do.
The net organic growth rate in our investment strategic objectives is a major task and we are fully committed management business was resilient and our unit trust to achieving our goals.
business had a particularly strong year.
We also reported an underlying operating margin of 30% for the year.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 33p per The delivery of our strategic objectives share.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 52p per is a major task and we are fully share, an increase of 6.1% over last year.
committed to achieving our goals.
The development of our strategic thinking and processes was a priority for 2014.
2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Introduction Chairmans statement Governance, the board and We continue to believe that the senior management most significant risks to our business are operational risks that arise from Good culture and ethics are the best guardians of sound corporate governance and of course we continue to respond the growth in our business and to ever-changing governance codes and standards.
The board regulatory risks that may arise from is well aware of the importance of setting the right tone from the top, and thereby ensuring that not only our clients but continual changes to rules and all our stakeholders benefit from a long-standing ethical standards in our sector.
This culture must be nurtured.
During the year, in addition to regulatory matters, the board It is important to maintain and develop good relations with spent considerable time discussing strategy, risk management, all our regulators and this is a high priority for our senior potential acquisitions and the resolution of the Jersey legal management.
Increasing attention has been paid by the proceedings referred to below.
The discussions in the board Financial Conduct Authority to conduct risk and conflicts meetings were robust, thorough and constructive.
A third party of interest in relation to the outcomes for clients.
The longboard effectiveness review was carried out towards the end standing culture of Rathbones in putting the interests of our of the year by an independent assessor, which confirmed that clients first is our best protection here, but we will remain the board was effective and working well.
A new board conflicts of interest committee has been some further refinements, albeit there were no surprises in established, chaired by James Dean.
We will be working on the recommendations made during the current year.
As reported on page 26, in July we announced that we had entered into an agreement to settle legal proceedings in I mentioned in last years report that we were intending Jersey involving a former director and employee of a former to appoint an additional female non-executive director by subsidiary and in respect of our legal proceedings against 2015.
I am delighted to report that on 21 January 2015 Sarah certain of our insurers.
Although our case was strong and Gentleman was appointed as a non-executive director.
Sarah indeed judgement was given subsequently in our favour has had a career embracing both technology and financial by the Court of Appeal in the insurance proceedings, the services and I am sure she will make a significant contribution.
continuing costs and uncertainty of litigation, together with Philip Howell outlines in his report how the growth in the management time taken, led the board to conclude that our business has necessitated strengthening our senior this settlement was in the best interest of shareholders.
management team in the areas of risk, strategy and organisation development.
We have made some strong appointments and are now well placed for further growth.
Risk and litigation The report of the chairman of the risk committee, Kathryn Matthews, is set out on page 60.
We have made good progress in developing a risk management framework and we look forward to the arrival of a chief risk officer, whom we expect to join us in March 2015.
We continue to believe that the most significant risks to our business are operational risks that arise from the growth in our business and regulatory risks that may arise from continual changes to rules and standards in our sector.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 3 Introduction Chairmans statement Remuneration Outlook The report from the chairman of the remuneration committee, David Harrel, is set out on pages 62 to 67.
It includes our I look forward to seeing the full benefit new remuneration policy, which shareholders are asked to of our 2014 acquisitions in 2015, and approve at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
This is intended to ensure that the executive directors remuneration working with our board in the coming is aligned both to our strategy and to the interests of years to develop and grow the business.
During the year we appointed New Bridge Street to advise the remuneration committee.
The new and simplified remuneration policy described Rathbones looks forward to future growth opportunities on pages 61 to 65 complies fully with the latest financial in the sector, but remains aware of the possible adverse market services regulations on deferral, clawback and malus.
effects that current political and economic uncertainty may have, both in this country and overseas.
I look forward to seeing the full benefit of our 2014 acquisitions in 2015, and The new and simplified remuneration working with our board in the coming years to develop and grow the business.
scheme complies fully with the latest financial services regulations on deferral, Mark Nicholls Chairman clawback and malus.
18 February 2015 Employees The high calibre of our employees makes Rathbones a very enjoyable place to work, and a quality firm to do business with.
Our employees have worked hard in a year of considerable change, to secure the very smooth integration of two significant new businesses.
Shareholders The successful share placing in April 2014, which was carried out at no discount to the prevailing market price, was evidence of the strong relationship we have developed with our shareholder base.
We are fortunate to have several engaged institutional shareholders with a significant investment in the company.
We have, and will continue to maintain, a regular and constructive dialogue with them.
4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014
