Capita plc 70 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 71 Corporate governance statement Results for 2014 Chairmans report 2014 was a year of double digit revenue I am pleased to present this report on and profit growth, with sustained high the work of the Capita Board during 2014, cash flow, returns, and strong acquisition formed of this section pages 70 to 77 and activity.
the section headed Other Statutory and Regulatory Information pages 78 to 81.
Following the smooth transition to the position of CEO at the start of the year, During 2014, the outsourcing sector has I am delighted that Andy Parkers strong come under unprecedented scrutiny.
leadership has given the Group another I believe it is the Boards commitment Martin Bolland successful year of growth, securing new to the highest standard of corporate Non-Executive Chairman and renewed major contracts worth a total governance and how this is managed of 1.7bn and completing 17 key strategic across the business that has allowed acquisitions.
us to uphold the highest standards of business practice.
Underlying revenue1 increased by 14% to 4,372m2 2013: 3,851m3, including Of course, governance must work within 9% organic and 5% acquisition growth.
the structure of a whole organisation, Underlying operating profit1 rose by without being overly cumbersome.
I 11% to 576.3m2 2013: 516.9m3 believe the balance struck across Capita and underlying profit before taxation1 is a result of the honest and transparent increased by 13% to 535.7m2 2013: culture in place throughout the business, 475.0m3.
Underlying earnings per share1 from Board through to business unit level.
In 2014, we welcomed Dawn MarriottThe aggregate value of new and extended Sims as an Executive Director and Carolyn major contracts secured in 2014 was Fairbairn as a Non-Executive Director 1.7bn, representing a 1 in 2 win rate.
following the retirement of Paul Pindar The bid pipeline has increased to 5.1bn and Martina King and in December we since the Interim Management Statement announced Andrew Williams as a further in November and we have secured Non-Executive Director to the Board from 1.1bn new business since the year-end.
We continued to focus upon acquiring smallto medium-sized businesses in As we welcome Nick Greatorex to the 2014, investing a total of 310m4 on Board in March 2015, our effective senior 17 acquisitions, excluding deferred and management succession planning ensures contingent considerations.
these values are carried forward into the future.
Equally, I would like to recognise The majority of our divisions performed the significant contribution Gordon Hurst well in 2014, with particularly strong has made to ensuring Capita leads its peer growth in Workplace Services and Justice group.
Through his role as Group Finance & Secure Services, supported by new Director and Company Secretary, he has contracts and significant improvements played a major role in making sure the in the profitability of IT Services and Group operates to the highest professional Property & Infrastructure, helped by the standards.
On behalf of the Board, we wish macroeconomic backdrop.
These positives him every success for the future.
We have were partially offset by Insurance & also decided that this is the right time in Benefits and Health & Wellbeing, and the our development to split the role of Group end of the Disclosure and Barring contract Finance Director and Company Secretary in March 2014. going forward.
See pages 46 and 56 for more information 1 Excludes non-underlying items detailed in note 5 on page 123.
2 On an ongoing basis, 2014 numbers exclude the sale of our Occupational Health business, see note 4 on page 122.
2013 numbers have not been restated on this basis.
3 2013 numbers exclude the partial sale of our Insurance Distribution and planned SIP business closure.
Capita plc 71 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 70 Capita plc 71 Corporate governance statement Results for 2014 Board activities in 2014 These include the key issues including The Chief Executive Officer reports on Chairmans report 2014 was a year of double digit revenue The Board meets nine times a year, risk and opportunity, operational and the acquisition strategy and current I am pleased to present this report on and profit growth, with sustained high operating with an open culture in line with financial performance and bid and acquisition activity in addition to his the work of the Capita Board during 2014, cash flow, returns, and strong acquisition the Groups own values and behaviours.
This allows the Chief Executive report.
formed of this section pages 70 to 77 and activity.
We adopt a structured approach when Executive Directors to focus on specific the section headed Other Statutory and setting Board and committee meetings, issues and also for the other Directors to The acquisition programme has assisted Regulatory Information pages 78 to 81.
Following the smooth transition to the which are aligned with the financial debate and challenge as required.
the Group in steadily expanding our position of CEO at the start of the year, calendar of our Company.
We set an offering and capabilities and therefore has During 2014, the outsourcing sector has I am delighted that Andy Parkers strong agenda to cover the wide range of matters Financial and corporate reporting greatly assisted the organic growth in the come under unprecedented scrutiny.
leadership has given the Group another that are brought to our attention, ensuring The Board considers the Groups statutory years beyond the immediate period of the I believe it is the Boards commitment Martin Bolland successful year of growth, securing new each is given appropriate time and focus.
reports and the broader aspects of acquisition effect.
to the highest standard of corporate Non-Executive Chairman and renewed major contracts worth a total corporate reporting at each scheduled governance and how this is managed of 1.7bn and completing 17 key strategic Strategy meeting.
Regular updates are received on Divisional senior management across the business that has allowed acquisitions.
A specific session to review the Groups the financial results from Gordon Hurst, During 2014, our Executive Board us to uphold the highest standards of strategy in detail is held each year.
Nick Greatorex and Andy Parker, which consisted of nine Divisional Executive business practice.
Underlying revenue1 increased by 14% Strategy items are also discussed at each also include the financial outlook for the Directors and two Group Business to 4,372m2 2013: 3,851m3, including Board meeting.
The diverse nature of the Group.
Of course, governance must work within 9% organic and 5% acquisition growth.
business means that we must continue Following the review of the Groups the structure of a whole organisation, Underlying operating profit1 rose by to be adaptable to the opportunities and Major bids and acquisitions structure in November 2014, three without being overly cumbersome.
I 11% to 576.3m2 2013: 516.9m3 challenges that face us, our clients and our Maggi Bell, Group Business Development additional Executive Directors were believe the balance struck across Capita and underlying profit before taxation1 stakeholders.
Risk is considered side-byDirector, presents a report at each Board appointed to the Executive Board, is a result of the honest and transparent increased by 13% to 535.7m2 2013: side with strategy and is included in our meeting which covers the current major effective 1 January 2015, recognising the culture in place throughout the business, 475.0m3.
Underlying earnings per share1 operational reporting.
bid strategy, constituents of the bid importance of our major sales teams from Board through to business unit level.
pipeline bids over 25m in value where in generating future organic growth for Group Board members reporting we are short-listed to four or fewer and the business.
As always, we continue In 2014, we welcomed Dawn MarriottThe aggregate value of new and extended As outlined in our management and prospects which are sitting just outside to keep the structure of our Divisional Sims as an Executive Director and Carolyn major contracts secured in 2014 was governance structure on page 37, of the bid pipeline.
As many of these senior management under review to Fairbairn as a Non-Executive Director 1.7bn, representing a 1 in 2 win rate.
Executive Directors present a report potential contracts are of significant size best meet the needs of the Group as it following the retirement of Paul Pindar The bid pipeline has increased to 5.1bn and comment on performance of their and duration, these opportunities can continues to grow.
and Martina King and in December we since the Interim Management Statement respective areas at each Group Board make a consequential impact on the shape announced Andrew Williams as a further in November and we have secured meeting.
and resource requirements of the Group Non-Executive Director to the Board from 1.1bn new business since the year-end.
Through his role as Group Finance & Secure Services, supported by new Director and Company Secretary, he has Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2014 contracts and significant improvements played a major role in making sure the in the profitability of IT Services and Group operates to the highest professional Property & Infrastructure, helped by the standards.
We have Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2014 were partially offset by Insurance & also decided that this is the right time in Benefits and Health & Wellbeing, and the our development to split the role of Group 1 8 end of the Disclosure and Barring contract Finance Director and Company Secretary 2 in March 2014.
7 2 Bids 15% See pages 46 and 56 for more information 3 Acquisitions and disposals 15% 3 4 Operations 20% 6 5 Strategy 15% 6 Risk 15% 1 Excludes non-underlying items detailed in note 5 on page 123.
4 7 Finance 10% 2 On an ongoing basis, 2014 numbers exclude the sale of our Occupational Health business, see note 4 on page 122.
5 8 Governance 5% 3 2013 numbers exclude the partial sale of our Insurance Distribution and planned SIP business closure.
