| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp001-pp016 26 02 2015 08:33 Page 3 Chairmans Statement et assets increased by approximately N200 million before dividends of 46 million to a total of 2.3 billion, a new all-time high.
Your Companys share price is now trading at its highest levels since RIT, in its present form, was listed Lord Rothschild, OM GBE more than 25 years ago.
gainst a background of volatility and risks in reforms in many of the countries which form part of Aworld markets, I am able to report that the net the European Union.
asset value per share NAV of your Company during However, in a world of zero or even negative bond 2014 increased from 1,384 pence to 1,483 pence, yields, equities may well remain the destination of representing a total return of 9.5%.
The discount at choice for investors.
Furthermore, the majority of which your Companys shares trade narrowed during companies are reporting profits exceeding forecasts the course of the year with the result that the total together with steady earnings growth.
In Europe, the shareholder return amounted to 13.3%.
Net assets combination of a more competitive Euro, an increased by approximately 200 million before aggressive programme of quantitative easing and the dividends of 46 million to a total of 2.3 billion, a yields available on equities, may well lead to even new all-time high.
There has been a further 3.3% higher valuations.
growth in our NAV in January 2015 to 1,531 pence.
Your Companys share price is now trading at its In this complex situation we have kept our quoted highest levels since RIT, in its present form, was equity exposure at moderate levels and have sought listed more than 25 years ago.
to add to returns through a widely diversified range of activities.
Returns in the year under review were Our policy has been clearly expressed over the years.
achieved through stock selection, by sub-contracting Simply put, it is to deliver long-term capital growth capital to talented and specialised investment while preserving shareholders capital: the realisation managers and active currency positioning.
In addition, of this policy comes at a time of heightened risk, we took advantage of your Companys ability to complexity and uncertainty.
The economic and borrow at low rates of interest and invested, via credit geopolitical environment therefore becomes managers, into higher yielding debt instruments with increasingly difficult to predict.
The world economy grew at a disappointing and For private investments, it has been a year of uneven rate in 2014 after six years of monetary exercising selectivity on new commitments with our stimulus and extraordinarily low interest rates.
Stock focus being on realisations and rationalisation of the market valuations however, are near an all-time high existing portfolio.
Cash realisations came about from with equities benefiting from quantitative easing.
Not the sale of Martin Currie the investment manager, surprisingly, the value of paper money has been Chart Show - the media company, and Metron the debased as countries have sought to compete and oil services company, which specialises in the generate growth by lowering the value of their Norwegian North Sea.
Results for the year were currencies the Euro and the Yen depreciated by over satisfactory with the balance of the portfolio showing 12% against the US Dollar during the course of the some valuation gains.
Our most significant direct year and Sterling by 5.9%.
The unintended investments have all made progress during the consequences of monetary experiments on such a course of the year.
scale are impossible to predict.
During January 2015 we completed the acquisition of In addition to this difficult economic background, we 100% of GVO, the investment management company.
are confronted by a geopolitical situation perhaps as GVO is a specialist manager focusing on UK stocks dangerous as any we have faced since World War II: with an excellent record and approximately 370 chaos and extremism in the Middle East, Russian million of assets under management.
These consist aggression and expansion, and a weakened Europe of Strategic Equity Capital, an investment trust threatened by horrendous unemployment, in no small company where we acquired a 17% stake, and the measure caused by a failure to tackle structural RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 3 234436 RIT R&A pp001-pp016 26 02 2015 08:33 Page 4 Chairmans Statement GVO UK Focus Fund.
Several awards have been We are fortunate that Amy Stirling has joined your given to this group over the last few years including Companys Board to replace her.
Amy is a trustee of Best UK Investment Trust 2014 What Investment The Princes Trust and a non-executive member of the and Fund Manager of the Year Grant Thornton.
She was previously CFO of the are confident that assets under management can be TalkTalk Telecom Group as well as holding various grown in the years ahead.
senior positions within the Carphone Warehouse Group.
Dividend We are intending to pay a dividend of 30 pence per Your Companys operating subsidiary and manager, share in 2015, an increase above the current rate of J Rothschild Capital Management, performed well inflation.
This will be paid in two equal payments of during the course of the year under the outstanding 15 pence each in April and October.
We expect to leadership of Francesco Goedhuis.
The team has maintain or increase this level in the years ahead, been strengthened and is cohesive, settled and subject to unforeseen circumstances.
We are confident they will be able to navigate shareholders interests to good effect in the Your Companys Board and Management risky and complex world which lies ahead.
Sandra Robertson, who is the CEO of the Oxford University Endowment Fund, has served your Company as a Director for more than six years: sadly she has decided in the light of her commitments not to stand for re-election at the AGM.
I would like to Rothschild place on record our thanks for the considerable 26 February 2015 support she has given to us.
We will miss an individual who has been a most valuable colleague.
e are intending to pay a dividend of W30 pence per share in 2015, an increase above the current rate of inflation.
This will be paid in two equal payments of 15 pence each in April and October.
4 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc
