CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WELL POSITIONED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF TURMOIL IN THE ENERGY MARKETS REL has continued to deliver on its investment objectives through commitments to eight additional companies in 2014.
While surging North American production has sent shockwaves through the global energy markets, REL is well positioned to take advantage of market volatility due to its strong capital position and diversified footprint across both conventional and unconventional energy plays.
Although still comparatively early in the investment cycle, our portfolio company valuations are already growing, resulting in growth in NAV per share during our first full calendar year.
REL has completed its first full year of operations as a company and as of 31 December 2014 has committed $724 million, or 1 59 per cent.
of total capital raised to ten investments.
Of this, $376 million has been invested, equating to 31 per cent.
RELs rapid progress to date means that the company is well on track to achieve our stated objectives to be fully committed within 24 to 36 months of our IPO and to deliver strong returns to its Shareholders.
With ten companies operating across both conventional and unconventional onshore and offshore plays, the Company has established a diversified footprint across geographies and investment strategies.
REL continues to consolidate its presence in the United States and Canada while also establishing new ventures in Norway as well as Mexico whose energy industry undergoes a historic period of reform and liberalisation.
Although entirely focused on exploration and production to date, company strategies range from conventional gas production offshore Gulf of Mexico to non-operated liquid-focused joint ventures in Canada and exploration in Norway.
Existing investments are also performing well and we are starting to see the first valuation impacts and growth in production levels and valuations.
Some notable successes from 2014 include highly favourable results from CIOCs wells in Canadas Montney formation, CNORs joint ventures with leading Canadian drillers and Fieldwoods 15 successful wells in the shallow Gulf of Mexico.
2014 has been a tumultuous year for the energy industry with a number of macro shocks ranging from instability in Eastern Europe and the Middle East to the decision by OPEC to leave oil production quotas unchanged despite growing North American supply.
The latter has had a profound impact on the energy market with oil prices falling by 43 per cent.
Energy producers are responding to lower oil prices by reducing capital spending plans, shelving growth projects and right-sizing portfolios through divestments.
However, this is resulting in new opportunities for companies with the capital and expertise to take advantage of the market dislocation.
RELs disciplined investment strategy, strong capital position and partnerships with world-class management teams positions the Company well to deliver strong shareholder returns to investors through the oil price cycle.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
As for the companies that were in the Performance portfolio at the start of the period, REL invested As of 31 December 2014, REL had a NAV per $66 million in Liberty II to support the share of $16.31.
This equates to an increase of acquisition of approximately 53,000 acres and 27 cents, when compared to NAV per share at approximately 4,000 boepd at the Bakken 31 December 2013.
NAV benefitted from the formation in North Dakota.
increase in the value of our Gulf period, REL invested an additional $36 million in of Mexico investment, Fieldwood, and an uplift Eagle II, taking its total investment to $37 million, of 50 per cent.
in CIOC, one of our E&P as the company progressed on its primary strategy investments focused on unconventional resources to pursue exploration and development in Western Canada.
opportunities in the U. S. Mid-Continent region.
The rate of capital commitments continued These ten REL companies represent an at a strong pace over the year, with the Company increasingly diverse geographic exposure, achieving announcing eight new capital commitments a broad range of coverage in the North American totalling $574 million.
exploration and production opportunity set but In the North American upstream sector, new now incorporating a footprint in Mexico and the capital commitments made during the year were North Sea.
The portfolio also combines a balanced mix of conventional and unconventional E&P $60 million to CIOC, $90 million to CNOR, plays, as well as oil, gas and liquids production.
The $83 million to Rock Oil, $82 million to Fieldwood, $67 million to Castex 2014 and $50 million to Company has maintained a disciplined approach by Castex 2005.
CIOC is a Calgary-based upstream oil investing alongside world-class management teams and gas company focused on the delineation and who are well known to the Investment Manager and have extensive track records in delivering development of its Deep Basin position in West returns to investors across multiple energy price Central Alberta, Canada: $54 million was invested in CIOC from REL during the year.
CNOR is a cycles, in part through consistent hedging and the newly-formed Calgary-based oil and gas company moderate use of leverage.
that has entered into multi-year joint ventures with As announced in May 2014, the Investment Bellatrix Exploration Ltd and Tourmaline Oil Corp Manager has begun fundraising for Fund VI.
to fund drilling activity in Western Canada.
Rock While this will be the successor to Fund V as Oil is a build-up exploration and production the investment partner for REL, the scope of investment focusing on well-established North investments for REL will be expanded to include American plays such as the Midland Basin.
all oil field services and power transactions in Fieldwood is led by a team which has previously which Fund VI participates.
partnered successfully with Riverstone and focuses REL has made excellent progress in 2014 in on U. S. Gulf of Mexico Shelf exploration and executing its strategy by partnering with top production having acquired assets from SandRidge management teams in opportunity-rich locations.
Energy and Apache in the region.
Finally, REL Despite oil prices falling by 43 per cent.
during made two commitments to Castex: the first to the calendar year, RELs investments are starting Castex 2014 which is a new partnership focusing to yield tangible results through drilling successes on seismic-driven exploration in Southern and production increases.
REL maintains Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
REL significant dry powder through both cash and also invested $48 million in Castex 2005 which un-invested commitments.
The nine management comprises a portfolio of existing assets which teams are extremely well placed to take advantage produce over 130 mmcfe d in the region.
Both of new opportunities emerging from the lower are managed by Castex Energy Inc. which has a oil price environment.
We expect that the multi-decade track record of operational leadership remaining uncommitted funds will be fully in the region.
Outside the United States and Canada, REL also made new capital commitments of $75 million to Sierra Oil & Gas, the first independent Mexican energy company established in 76 years, and $67 million to Origo Exploration.
Sierra is a new company managed by executives with a deep Sir Robert Wilson knowledge of the Mexican energy sector to pursue Chairman select upstream and midstream opportunities as the 12 February 2015 local energy industry undergoes a historic period of reform and liberalisation.
Origo is a Norway-based oil and gas company managed by a team with a strong track record of exploration discoveries in the UK and Norwegian continental shelves, who are targeting several wells per year through farm-ins and licensing rounds.
1 Based on total capital raised of $1,221 million, including KFIs second tranche of 50 million at exchange rate of 1.621 USD GBP.
