06 Chairmans statement 2014 was a year of significant progress for RBS, with a much improved operating profit and major achievements in terms of business reorganisation, cost reduction, capital build and improved IT capability.
As Ross McEwan has set out in his letter, the business continues to simplify and improve, focusing on putting its customers at the heart of its activities.
07 Chairmans statement The bank has delivered a good operating The need to continue to rebuild capital In particular, I would like to thank Nathan profit of 3.5 billion for 2014, but the costs strength means it has taken longer than we Bostock, Tony Di Iorio and Philip Scott, who associated with completing the restructuring had expected to reach a point at which the all stepped down from the Board in 2014 after of RBS mean we are still reporting a bottom Government could be in a position to start providing valuable service, and to welcome line attributable loss.
Although the huge selling down its stake in RBS.
The decision Morten Friis and Ewen Stevenson, who have changes to the size, shape and risk profile on timing rests with the Government, through joined the Board.
of the business since the financial crisis UK Financial Investments, which manages are largely complete or in hand, the further its shareholding, but our task is to create the It has been a privilege to serve as Chairman substantial restructuring of our markets conditions in which it can do so.
In working of RBS and I am confident that the Board and operations and international spread will towards that end we are also furthering the the many outstanding people in the bank will require careful management in 2015. interests of RBSs other shareholders, as we continue to work with dedication to restore the believe that the beginning of the sell-down will banks standing.
Of course your Board is pleased to see the be welcomed by investors.
improved operating performance, which in Philip Hampton our view reflects the underlying strength of the As announced previously I will be leaving Chairman business.
Looking back, however, we must RBS in 2015.
The Board is pleased to acknowledge that we did not fully recognise announce that Howard Davies will succeed the scale of the challenge that awaited us in me as Chairman, and we welcome him to RBS.
At the time, we assumed that a Core He will join the Board at the end Tier 1 capital ratio of more than 8% by 2013 of June and take over from me on 1 would be sufficient to constitute undoubted September.
On the day I joined the Board financial strength in the minds of markets in January 2009, the shares traded at 9p, and regulators: today we have increased equivalent to 90p today, and the implications our capital target to 13%.
We must also of the banks financial distress were acknowledge that we did not anticipate the unknowable.
RBS has transformed itself over more than 9 billion of regulatory fines and the last several years and continues to do so.
customer redress we have borne so far as we The renewed focus on customer and customer paid, and will continue to pay, the price for our service will make this a better organisation for past conduct failings.
These conduct issues all stakeholders, most especially customers, have delayed the re-build of our capital and staff and shareholders.
They have also caused continuing reputational damage.
I would like to thank my colleagues on the I hope as we move beyond these issues we RBS Board for their support and dedication in can fully rebuild the trust of our customers, dealing with the unusual challenges of being and by doing so win more of their business.
