STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement At the start of the year, in my capacity as Executive Chairman, I set out with In the long history of RSA, 2014 will be seen two key objectives.
Firstly, to develop a n ew strategy w hic h w ould all ow Following the challenges at the end of 2013, and health: and secondly, to recruit a new Group Chief Executive to lead your company has ended 2014 in a substantially the company and successfully execute improved position with a clear vision for a stable our strategy.
I am very pleased with the progress we have made against both of these objectives.
I was delighted that we of Stephen Hester as Group Chief Executive in February.
Stephen brings a wealth of experience, both as a FTSE 100 CEO and as the engineer of business improvement across many sectors.
He has also brought energy, rigour, fresh thinking and challenge to the Boardroom and across the business.
He has completed a thorough review of all of our businesses, challenging each one to improve their performance and to be measured against a benchmark of the leading competitors in their local markets.
Stephen has inherited an experienced management team which he has supplemented by the recruitment of key external hires during the year.
Richard Houghton, our Chief Financial the Board at the AGM and will leave the company later this year.
Both Stephen and I are grateful to Richard for his work at RSA and wish him well for the future.
In addition, we were delighted to welcome Enrico Cucchiani as a new Non-Executive Director during the year, following the retirement of Edward Lea and Malcolm le May after 11 and 10 On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Martin for his contribution while acting as Executive Chairman during the challenging period at the end included the important step of commencing the strategic review of the Group.
Johanna Waterous RSA Senior Independent Director to ensure our internal control system is consistent and independent.
The Board has been fully involved in this programme with Non-Executive Directors sitting on the operational steering group to ensure that we are thinking and the speed of execution.
The programme has been making excellent progress.
Our operational improvement does not stop there.
During the year we the business to improve revenue years service respectively.
like to thank both Edward and Malcolm made in disposing of our non-core alongside all of our employees for T he B oa rd c on si fide rs th e se pl ans to their contribution to the business we received from shareholders from be stretching but achievable.
Although our rights issue in April, have helped it will take some years to both fully to address this challenge.
implement the plans and realise their The strategy which Stephen laid out in D ur in g t he y ea r we h av e m ai nt ain e d meet the medium-term objectives priority is to tighten the strategic focus the level of management margin set out in this report.
Our geographic spread in reserves and have taken out had become fragmented with too many reinsurance protection against adverse Finally, I would like to thank all of positions in emerging markets, many development of reserves.
Against all our shareholders for their continuing o f o ur k ey c ap ita l me tr ic s, we e nd e d support.
I would encourage shareholders market positions.
RSA had neither the t o u se t his A nn u al Re p or t t o l ea rn m ore c ap ita l r ema in s a k ey f oc us fo r th e about the progress we are making and B oa rd a s we h ea d to w ar ds th e I look forward to seeing many of you retrenchment was essential.
During at o ur A GM i n Ma y. in refocusing the business on our improve the operational performance core markets in the UK and Ireland, of the business.
This started with a Scandinavia, Canada and Latin America.
systematic review of our control Our second strategic challenge is to environment in response to the issues MARTIN SCICLUNA improve the quality and quantity of Chairman capital in the business.
One of the Following comprehensive internal and Boards main priorities for our external reviews, we found no evidence shareholders is to ensure that the that the issues in Ireland were repeated an ywh e re e lse in t he b us in es s. Des pite demands of regulators and customers.
wide controls and governance review RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PEACE OF MIND FOR INDIVIDUALS Every day we insure millions of Our role in a customers families, cars, houses, and pets across the world.
In doing so we provide our customers with global society the peace of mind that if the worst happens they will be able to rely on RSA to help.
Our products and services help to reduce risk and make communities safer places to live, work and travel.
Motor insurance is a substantial part of our business and we have a clear commercial interest in making the worlds roads safer.
From promoting For hundreds of years insurance has played a telematics to running road safety campaigns, we provide incentives, critical role in enabling global trade, facilitating advice and guidance to customers and the general public to promote innovation and fuelling economic and social safer motoring for all users.
At RSA, we are proud of our heritage of Personal net as the oldest insurance company in the world.
4.0bn written premiums Looking forward, we expect to continue to play no.
of countries in 13 the RSA Group that an important role in global society.
ran major road safety number of miles 100m driven on our telematics motor At its heart insurance is about the Our investment strategy is constrained products in the UK pooling of risk.
By enabling groups of by duration, because of the need to customers to share risks, we lower the maintain liquidity to pay claims and costs of those risks for all concerned.
To by risk, because of the need to be add value for customers it is vital that insurers have a thorough understanding become due.
We hold capital to protect of the risks being pooled.
Premiums policyholders from the risks we take need to cover the costs of claims as well within our investment portfolio as well as the costs of selling and administering as to protect against volatility in our the policy, and the cost of cover needs underwriting performance.
to be attractive to customers by matching to their evaluation of risk.
As well as lowering costs, pooling risks also creates assets.
This is due to the timing difference between the receipt of premiums and the payment of claims.
Insurers can use these assets to invest in society.
SUPPORTING COMMERCIAL TRADE INVESTING IN OUR SOCIETIES SUPPORTING THRIVING Our commercial insurance products We hold our assets mainly in highCOMMUNITIES cover a wide range of business O ur cu st ome rs a nd o ur business sectors from property, marine and This conservative investment do well when they are part of motor through to utilities, telecoms, strategy provides a stable source prosperous communities.
Our renewable energy, and construction of capital to governments and products and services give individuals and engineering.
By reducing the companies and enables them to costs of these risks to businesses, we focus on generating economic value and grow.
Through our Corporate enable our customers to deploy more for their constituents and customers.
Responsibility activity, we focus on capital on the creation of economic the social challenges many of the Our businesses and services also value.
For example our marine countries in which we operate face, promote environmental sustainability insurance team facilitate international including youth unemployment and by helping our customers respond to trade by lowering the risks and costs the need to develop enterprise and changing risks and promoting new of transportation.
We work with entrepreneurship vital to economic ways of working that save energy and our large commercial customers to growth.
We run education and resources.
We are one of the worlds help them manage complex risks, employability programmes, including largest insurers of renewable energy, reducing their premiums and our skills-sharing volunteering activities, particularly in the offshore likely claims costs.
internships and SME business wind sector.
of Commercial net 3.5bn of the worlds written premiums 25% of our volunteering wind turbine 43% support focused manufacturing on education and of Marine premiums insured by RSA 600m employability of the worlds programmes 80% offshore wind farms 1 expected no.
of volunteering 70% insured by RSA construction output 6,691 hours devoted during of investment 14.2bn assets of charitable 1.1m donations made TAXI 1 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Market dynamics Our aim is to ensure that our customers can service their policy wholly online We are focused on the Northern developed so they can buy, change or make a claim markets of Scandinavia, Canada, the UK and on their policy with convenience.
By the Ireland, with a growing business in Latin our web journeys across the group for mobile devices, enabling our customers America.
Insurance conditions have remained to browse, compare and purchase our challenging across these markets.
products easily, using their smartphone or tablet.
In the UK, we have made it possible for our insurance brokers to arrange SME Small Medium Enterprise insurance cover online.
We also offer a webchat facility to help them through the process.
Both of these make it OVERALL TRENDS investment income, which in turn quicker and easier for our brokers The global economy continues to face places increased emphasis on to do business with us.
The rapid advancement of technology s ou rc e of ea rn in gs.
and the increasing availability of data by developed economies, should drive i s o p en in g th e do or to n ew w ay s o f continued modest premium growth in the industry continues to see increasing assessing and managing risk.
This is the global P&C market.
It is estimated levels of regulatory scrutiny.
This creates particularly apparent in the UK personal that the global P&C market grew by pressure on capital and resources.
motor sector where telematics is Solvency II, the new solvency framework changing the way insurers underwrite being developed by the EU, is now source: Swiss Re Sigma.
t ele m at ic s p ro d uc ts in t he U K, M OR E T H N D R IV E an d MO R E TH N SM A RT have remained challenging across our for the sector continue to be uncertain.
As our marketplaces continue key markets.
These markets range to evolve, we will continue to invest in from highly concentrated to highly CUSTOMERS our telematics offering and analytics fragmented and from mature Customer needs continue to evolve capabilities.
We have seen intense both in terms of what they buy and competition in most of our key business how they buy it.
Our customers are UK AND IRELAND areas as our businesses compete demanding more tailored products The UK and Ireland has outpaced the for premium growth in a subdued and increasing direct interaction with economic environment.
In addition, customers can now use the internet to compare products and The sustained low interest rate prices easily.
In response, we are further In Ireland, the economy has emerged environment also poses a major integrating our existing distribution strongly from the recession following challenge for the insurance sector channels with online channels.
the wide-ranging austerity measures and for RSA, given that the majority of our assets are invested in high-quality source: CBI.
interest rates therefore means lower 7 Despite the pick up in the economy, consumers remain price conscious.
In both markets, insurance pricing conditions remain soft across most major product lines.
In personal lines, the marketplace continues to be competitive, fuelled by overcapacity and low barriers to entry.
Furthermore, new entrants are making substantial inroads into the market based on low cost and alternative business models.
Commercial insurance in the UK continues to be impacted by economic conditions and weakness in the Eurozone.
SCANDINAVIA The Scandinavian economies are CANADA perceived to be generally stable and The long-term national economic relatively safe.
We expect low singleoutlook for Canada is relatively stable across the key countries we operate in Denmark, Sweden and Norway as a LATIN AMERICA source: Bank of Canada.
Industry In Latin America, political and economic premiums are expected to grow at and improved domestic demand.
The headwinds persist and economic low single-digit rates in line with GDP.
insurance market is relatively mature and is therefore expected to grow broadly in line with GDP.
moderated by the Ontario auto price reductions announced last year, which Overall, the pricing environment in source: World Bank.
GDP growth is form part of regulatory motor reforms Scandinavia remains broadly stable.
designed to reduce auto insurance the US economic recovery spills over in te rms o f we at he r ev en ts w h ich to the region.
The insurance markets in Latin America around a quarter of the overall Canadian in the market.
remain attractive on a fundamental P&C market.
It is expected that there RSA is the third-largest insurer in the basis due to low insurance penetration will be commensurate claims cost region.
The region also has some and a growing middle class.
However, reduction measures to support this, structural differences from the rest of they continue to face the challenges although the timing of implementation Europe in that the majority of insurance is uncertain.
is distributed directly to the consumer.
In personal property, we are seeing Despite this, there is evidence that robust rate increases as the market smaller competitors are gaining continues to respond to the severe more share of the market.
This weather events of last year.
However, highlights the importance for us of 2.5% Commercial lines continues to be building and maintaining strong impacted by increased capacity customer relationships.
Consolidation continues to be a key 2.8% trend in the Canadian market among Expected Global P&C market growth both insurers and brokers.
This is driven by competitors looking to gain scale and competitive advantage through better RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT We make a difference by protecting How we people and businesses against the risks they face in their daily lives.
create value We provide unrivalled expertise through our global network of providers to cover everything from houses and pets, to skyscrapers and tankers, across the world.
INPUTS FINANCIAL AND STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL Our brands Our strategic priorities 4 Our corporate UNDERSTANDING EFFECTIVE PRODUCT INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE PRUDENT INVESTMENTS MANAGING CLAIMS AND Core regions responsibility AND PRICING RISK CUSTOMER DISTRIBUTION AND DIVERSIFICATION Our business generates SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS programme We are in the business of risk We distribute our products As an international business Ou r cu st ome rs e xp e ct ations management.
We strive hard through many different we are seeking to maximise prudently invested to deliver are increasing.
We aim to Our governance and 5.2bn to understand the risks our re tu rn s f o r s ha re holders.
constantly improve the risk management Capital employed customers want us to insure to customers is key if we without losing touch with service we offer, and pay frameworks and make sure that we price are to continue to develop the differing needs of the our products appropriately.
many markets we operate in.
19 Thousand employees VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS Ensuring shareholders are The most effective way Lower volatility of earnings and Additional income without Lower claims costs OUR CULTURE AND VALUES adequately rewarded for to grow premium income lower capital requirements putting capital at undue risk and higher retention the capital they provide The diversity of our business Gene ra lly, claim s t hat are settled We aim to achieve acceptable route to the largest number of enables us to hold capital returns on our assets, in the quicker, settle for less, meaning BRILLIANT SERVICE returns by ensuring that customers, tailoring our offering k no w le dg e t h at o ur prudent Delivering memorable service that inspires people underwriters understand the a pproa ch i s unli ke ly to je o pa rdise customers will stay with us for target price required to deliver markets.
to catastrophe events leading their capital.
to lower volatility of earnings.
GETTING THE JOB DONE VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Delivering on our promises and cutting out unnecessary processes to make things simpler.
Enabling customers to Accessing insurance products Access to best practice innovation Access to ancillary services manage their risk appetite in the way customers want and multinational risk coverage a claim will be paid Increasingly our customers are We work with our customers to The way in which customers want We are always looking to share Our substantial reserves are looking for more than just claims DOING THE RIGHT THING ensure that they can reduce their to buy insurance is changing.
ideas and best practice across invested in low volatility assets.
For instance, access to Using common sense when dealing with people, risks, reducing premiums for them We are at the forefront of these countries giving customers This means that customers can be our supply chain to enable lower gaining their trust by treating them as they want and claims costs for us.
changes, anticipating customers access to innovative products c os ts of a nc illary s e rv ice s a llied to evolving needs to provide easy and services.
We can provide when they are due.
the core insurance product or risk to be treated.
multinational customers with management to prevent claims global product coverage.
BRIGHT IDEAS VALUE FOR SOCIETY Continually combining our technical expertise Enabling society to Playing our part in Spreading best practice Enabling growth Helping society recover with a deep understanding of customers needs grow and develop the digital world As markets evolve we can quickly and providing capital from disasters to create and deliver solutions that people value.
By effectively enabling risk transfer As more business is transacted export best practice from one We invest in all the countries we When catastrophes strike, across society, we encourage online, we are investing to improve country to another.
This means operate in, providing capital to we help society get back on entrepreneurship and innovation our customers online experience that the best of RSA is available governments and companies track quickly, through settling POSITIVE PEOPLE in the societies we work in while and encouraging customers to to all the societies we operate in.
Creating an environment where people want ensuring that society is protected embrace digital distribution.
9 OUTPUTS 7.5bn Net written premiums INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE PRUDENT INVESTMENTS MANAGING CLAIMS AND 2.9bn AND DIVERSIFICATION Our business generates SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS Tangible net asset As an international business Ou r cu st ome rs e xp e ct ations value we are seeking to maximise prudently invested to deliver are increasing.
We aim to re tu rn s f o r s ha re holders.
constantly improve the without losing touch with service we offer, and pay 14.2bn the differing needs of the Investment assets many markets we operate in.
c. 80% Customer retention Lower volatility of earnings and Additional income without Lower claims costs lower capital requirements putting capital at undue risk and higher retention The diversity of our business Gene ra lly, claim s t hat are settled enables us to hold capital returns on our assets, in the quicker, settle for less, meaning 12-15% k no w le dg e t h at o ur prudent a pproa ch i s unli ke ly to je o pa rdise customers will stay with us for Target underlying to catastrophe events leading their capital.
return on tangible to lower volatility of earnings.
equity Access to best practice innovation Access to ancillary services and multinational risk coverage a claim will be paid Increasingly our customers are We are always looking to share Our substantial reserves are looking for more than just claims ideas and best practice across invested in low volatility assets.
For instance, access to countries giving customers This means that customers can be our supply chain to enable lower access to innovative products c os ts of a nc illary s e rv ice s a llied to and services.
the core insurance product or risk multinational customers with management to prevent claims global product coverage.
Spreading best practice Enabling growth Helping society recover As markets evolve we can quickly and providing capital from disasters export best practice from one We invest in all the countries we When catastrophes strike, country to another.
This means operate in, providing capital to we help society get back on that the best of RSA is available governments and companies track quickly, through settling to all the societies we operate in.
10 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUING CUSTOMER FOCUS Making it easier for our customers to interact with us Customers needs are central to our strategy.
Staying close to our customers means communicating in a way thats right for them.
As technology evolves we are quick to respond, adapting our channels of communication to meet our customers needs.
Increasingly, digital channels are becoming the primary route for and our aim is to anticipate future di gi ta l t re nd s a n d c reate modular their insurance products.
With this solutions that are future friendly in mind, our digital team are constantly and device agnostic.
This limits the improving the conversations between impact of uncertainty and enhances our brands and their customers by RSAs products, so that as our markets utilising the latest tools and techniques.
become increasingly connected, were In this way we can ensure that all there when our customers need us.
of our customers can interact with us easily, and in a way that suits their communication needs.
Our decisions are data driven, personalising our content and services to meet our individual customer needs on their chosen channel of communication.
11 WINNER BEST UK PET INSURER 2014 AT THE PERSONAL FINANCE AWARDS CANADIAN TRAVEL INSURER OF THE YEAR IN 2014, AWARDED BY THE INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL & HEALTH INSURANCE JOURNAL BEST DANISH DIGITAL INSURANCE COMPANY IN 2014, AWARDED BY MYRESEARCH BEST OVERALL INSURANCE PROVIDER AT THE WHAT MORTGAGE AWARDS 2014 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUING CUSTOMER FOCUS CANADA RSABroker.
ca Our Canadian platform, RSABroker.
ca, provides all-round support to brokers.
Drawing inspiration from our UK broker platform, the website makes it easier for brokers to transact, download product information or get news delivered straight to their in-box.
The platform also showcases our recent brand refresh.
uplift in brokers transacting online.
Newsletter sign-ups have increased UK MORE TH N Online remains a key channel for MORETH N and this year we completed a major update to the MORETH N website.
The new site sits on a platform that enables us to rapidly build and test new features, so we can deliver the right online experiences and make sure that customers can interact with us easily on the device that suits them.
Alongside our site launch we have been building new products to better meet customer needs.
In February, we launched Name Your Price for Home, which asks customers how much they would like to pay for their home insurance and then builds the level of launched M Drive, an app that helps safer drivers get lower premiums by tracking and scoring their driving behaviour.
September saw the launch of Smart Wheels, a telematics black box monitoring solution that rewards safe young drivers with cashback.
DIGITAL CHANNELS ARE BECOMING THE PRIMARY ROUTE FOR CUSTOMERS TO MANAGE THEIR INSURANCE PRODUCTS.
The redesign of the new motor SWEDEN customer journey involved simplifying the buying process.
This comprised TRYGG HANSA of reducing the number of web pages We are the third-largest insurer in that a customer goes through from 16% Sweden, and our business there is one increase in Canadian brokers be started directly from the home transacting online with RSA page of the website.
The responsive Our Digital, Technology & Marketing design provides a great customer teams have delivered on a number of experience regardless of the device key initiatives, including improvements the customer is using.
to the online sales, customer service, To ensure the changes to the experience we launched a customer self-service were of the highest quality we capability with great success, and this undertook rigorous testing with our customers during development.
All feedback was included in the These changes have seen an early uplift in mobile purchases, with one in four sales now made through a device.
