Chairmans Statement an average discount of 9.7% 2013: 9.7% and a cost of 11.3m Performance and Commentary 2013: 10.1m.
In the twelve months to 31 October 2014, the net asset value per 1 share NAV total return was 1.0%.
The share price total return Change of Manager over the same period was 1.4%.
During the year, the company announced that John Kennedy had The portfolio is not modelled on any index and, to reflect this, left The Scottish Investment Trust PLC after ten years of service as the company does not have a formal benchmark.
The board thanks him for his substantial contribution instead reviewed in the context of returns from broad baskets of UK and wishes him well for the future.
Over the same period, the FTSE All-World Alasdair McKinnon, previously Assistant Manager, has become Index sterling total return was 8.8% and the FTSE All-Share Index Acting Manager.
Alasdair has been with the company since 2003. total return was 1.0%.
He graduated MA with honours in Economic and Social History The outlook for global economic growth slowed over the year as from the University of Edinburgh in 1997 and MSc in Investment China and emerging markets proved a source of disappointment and Analysis with distinction from the University of Stirling in 2001.
Japanese reflationary measures known as Abenomics were thwarted Alasdair is a Chartered Financial Analyst CFA and an Associate by a sales tax increase.
The eurozone economy again flirted with a of the UK Society of Investment Professionals.
recession with further banking problems in the periphery and new, Russian sanctions-related, problems in the core countries.
Board Composition The US economy endured a particularly harsh winter but the James MacLeod has decided not to stand for re-election at the AGM subsequent rapid recovery in economic activity was a source having served on the board since 2005.
The company has benefited of positive surprise.
The UK, although less important in a global greatly from his knowledge and experience.
On behalf of the board, context, was seen as the most dynamic economy although this I should like to thank James for his outstanding contribution.
view faded as the booming London housing market moderated EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive late in the financial year.
AIFMD Investors paid greatest heed to the machinations of the US Federal As explained in previous reports, the company is now subject to Reserve, which reduced and eventually ceased asset purchases the requirements of the AIFMD.
The company has entered into more commonly known as quantitative easing.
The larger market an investment management agreement with SIT Savings Limited, corrections over the year were triggered by a realisation that the a wholly-owned subsidiary, which will perform the role of Alternative US Federal Reserve intended to persist with this policy of tapering Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Northern Trust Global Services and was examining the prospects for an interest rate rise during 2015.
Limited has been appointed to fulfil the required depositary function.
The disparity in growth prospects, and thus for stimulatory Outlook measures between the major economic regions, was a defining Although more than half a decade has elapsed since the nadir characteristic of the year.
Investors anticipated interest rate of the financial crisis, interest rates remain extraordinarily low and increases in the US, which served to strengthen the US dollar late major areas of the global economy continue to struggle.
In the US, in the year and generally increased the attractiveness of US assets.
which has fared better than other regions over the past year, the In contrast, the eurozone, China and Japan were expected to enact US Federal Reserve has recently ceased to purchase financial further, currency-weakening, stimulatory measures.
Sterling initially assets and is now contemplating an interest rate rise in 2015. strengthened on suggestions of an interest rate rise but fell back against the US dollar as this prospect receded.
An increase in US interest rates has the potential to have a destabilising impact on global markets as the stimulatory measures employed Gearing since the financial crisis have relied upon the creation of additional Having started the year at a net cash position of 1%, gearing was debt.
Investment markets are therefore likely to remain in thrall to gradually deployed to finish the year at 4%, with benefit to the the deliberations of the US Federal Reserve and other central banks.
More positively, the recent sharp fall in the oil price is likely to have Income and Dividends a stimulatory impact on economic activity and, if maintained, should Earnings per share were lower at 11.51p 2013: 13.41p, owing to filter through into an increase in consumer disposable income.
a lower level of investment during the first part of the year and a The company has deployed a proportion of the long-term higher contribution from special dividends in the preceding year.
borrowings into higher-yielding equities and retains more than 60m The board recommends a final dividend of 7.20p per share 2013: in cash which could be utilised should attractive opportunities arise.
6.80p which, if approved and combined with the interim dividend of 4.80p, will mean that total regular dividend for the year will increase by 3.4% to 12.00p, ahead of the main measures of UK inflation.
This proposed dividend will entail the utilisation of 0.4p per share from revenue reserves: the board considers these reserves can be used in less buoyant years, however the revenue reserves remain Douglas McDougall robust at 44p per share.
Chairman 12 December 2014 Discount and Share Buybacks The discount at which the share price trades to the NAV was again 2 broadly stable and finished the year at 8.7% 2013: 8.6%.
NAV with borrowings at market value.
Total return is the combination of capital and income.
The company has for a number of years followed a policy that 2.
This is referenced to the ex-income NAV with borrowings aims to maintain the discount at or below 9%.
During the year, at market value.
1.9m 2013: 1.9m shares were repurchased for cancellation at 4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014
