Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 21 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
This report is a new requirement and contains many of the disclosures previously contained within the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on another strong year for our Low Cost Shareholders.
Scottish Mortgages net asset value NAV total I am very pleased that, in agreement with the Managers, Scottish return capital and income for the year to the end of March 2014 Mortgage announced a reduction in the annual management fee was 23.1% and the share price total return was 28.9%: these far from 0.32% to 0.30% effective from 1 April 2014.
Compared to surpassed the benchmark the FTSE All-World Index total return other funds the level of fee was already modest and this reduction of 6.8%.
It was a landmark year for the Company in many improves this advantage.
It is hard to overstate the compound aspects: our share price crossed the 10 threshold, our gross positive long term impact of low charges on Shareholder returns: assets exceeded 3 billion and by some measures we became we believe that the lions shares of investment returns need to the largest UK conventional investment trust.
accrue to Shareholders and not to third parties.
For the year just passed, the figure for Scottish Mortgages Ongoing Charges Again I urge Shareholders not to pay too much attention to short Ratio is just 0.50%, one of the lowest figures reported on the term numbers, no matter how good they may be.
While the investment trust sector.
Company is required to report these on an annual basis, the investment approach adopted has a much longer horizon.
The Earnings and Dividends five and ten year results which the Board uses to assess the As foreseen in last years Statement, earnings per share were Managers performance are much more relevant and, likewise, lower this year, totalling 12.14p as opposed to 15.59p in excellent.
A final dividend of 7.6p is proposed which gives a total The table below shows the five and ten year total returns in of 14.5p for the year, an increase of 3.6%.
If approved this will percentage terms to 31 March 2014 and also includes the entail using 2.4p of revenue reserves.
Association of Investment Companies AIC Global Sector average.
With an objective to maximise total returns, Scottish Mortgage is primarily a growth trust.
Dividends form part of the total return Total Return % and are valued by many Shareholders.
However, the Board Five years Ten years considers it important that the Managers are not constrained as growth investors by having to chase income when constructing NAV 196 241 the portfolio.
To this end a Resolution is to be proposed at the Share price 226 314 AGM to amend the Objective and Policy so that while dividend FTSE All-World Index 101 132 growth remains within the Objective, the aspiration to increase the Global Sector Av NAV 109 149 dividend in real terms that is, ahead of inflation is removed so Global Sector Av share price 108 173 that the potential to achieve growth and maximise total returns is not constrained.
The intention remains to grow the dividend, but Source: AIC Thomsons Reuters Datastream.
not necessarily ahead of inflation.
The figures speak for themselves and suggest that active There are Revenue Reserves of 26p per share set aside to cover management can provide superior returns both in absolute terms any shortfall in earnings: furthermore permission is being sought and relative to an index.
this year to amend the Articles of Association to delete the The usual caveats apply: past performance will not necessarily be provision which expressly prohibits the distribution of any surplus repeated: Scottish Mortgage is best suited to those who adopt a arising from the realisation of any investments.
While your Board similarly long investment horizon and there will undoubtedly be has no immediate plans to make use of this provision, it will give periods of under-performance in both absolute and relative terms.
the Company greater flexibility in its distribution policy in the long In congratulating the Managers on their excellent performance, I term.
would add that this has been achieved despite our portfolio being Both of these Resolutions are set out in detail in the Circular that held as to nearly 90% in non-sterling denominated investments accompanies the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
through a year when sterling has been among the worlds strongest currencies.
A further change that has been made and has been approved by the Board is a revision to the allocation of the investment The Managers Report provides an investment commentary which management fee and borrowing costs from 50% against revenue is well worth reading.
It suffices to say here that a long term and and 50% against capital to 25% against revenue and 75% against global approach driven by thorough research of individual capital.
This change has been applied from 1 April 2014 and companies as adopted by the Managers enjoys the Boards full reflects more realistically the recent split of returns from the confidence.
portfolio and indeed where we expect them to be derived in the future.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Gearing Changes to Investment Policy Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the use of gearing and I have already highlighted that permission is being sought from gearing levels were maintained throughout the year.
Shareholders to remove the hurdle of generating real growth in income from the Objective: this Resolution also asks you to Buybacks and Share Issuance approve other changes to the Objective and Investment Policy.
Over the year the shares moved from a discount of 4.1% to close The principal change for which approval is being sought is the the year at a premium of 0.4% and at one point the premium rose removal of the current investment restriction whereby individual to 4.2%.
The proposition offered by Scottish Mortgage has been holdings of over 3% of total assets must together be less than clearly articulated by the Board and Managers and there has been 40% of total assets.
This historic restriction has meant that extensive press coverage which, along with other marketing successful investments with the potential for further growth have initiatives, has led to demand for shares from existing and new had to be reduced.
This runs counter to the way the portfolio is investors.
It is particularly gratifying to see that there has been now managed whereby companies are backed for the long term growing demand from direct investors through the Baillie Gifford and turnover of investments is low.
It also contradicts the Savings Schemes and also through other share dealing platforms.
Managers core investment beliefs and, we feel, could limit Shareholders long term returns.
The Board favours its removal.
As the provision of liquidity is important at times when supply and demand do not immediately coincide, during the year 5,805,000 Should the new Objective and Investment Policy be approved, we shares were bought back by the Company and were placed in will nonetheless retain the current restriction whereby the Treasury for subsequent re-issue.
Buying back shares, even at maximum investment in any one holding at time of purchase must narrow discounts, does enhance net asset value for continuing be less than 8% of total assets.
A total of 39,006,279 ordinary shares are now held concentrations so that adequate levels of diversification are in Treasury.
achieved will continue to be an important and regular undertaking for the Board as has been the case in the past.
Permission is again being sought to reissue shares from Treasury at a premium to NAV and also to issue new shares.
The premium Other changes to the Objective and Investment Policy are is specified as that reached when net asset value is calculated on suggested for the sake of simplification and clarification.
The the basis of the Companys debt at fair value, as distinct from par wording of the current and proposed Objective and Investment value.
This is the standard industry measure as used by the AIC Policy is set out on pages 9 and 10 of the Circular.
The accompanying Circular gives full The Board believes that these changes are in the best interests of details of the terms of any issuance and of the authorities being the Company and Shareholders as a whole and it unanimously sought from Shareholders to meet regulatory requirements and recommends that you vote in favour of all of the Resolutions as comply with the Listing Rules.
the Directors intend to so do in respect of their own holdings.
If the share price moves to a premium and there is unfulfilled AIFMD demand, the intention is that shares will be issued from Treasury and this will be undertaken with a long term purpose in mind As mentioned last year the Company is required to comply with rather than on a short term opportunistic basis.
Increasing the the EU-wide Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive scale of the Company means that the burden of costs is shared AIFMD.
To this end a new investment management agreement across a wider base, while the provision of liquidity in our shares has been entered into between the Company and Baillie Gifford & remains an important factor.
While no discount limit or target is Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Baillie Gifford & Co set, the Board is aware that Shareholders will expect the partnership and the entity which will fulfil the role of Alternative Company to continue to act to provide liquidity and buy back Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the Directive.
A shares when supply exceeds demand.
The Boards actions in this depositary agreement has been drawn up with Bank of New York regard are intended to establish levels of trust and confidence for Mellon and the intention is that they will fulfil the function of the future.
depositary as required by the AIFMD.
Proposed Sub-Division of Shares Scottish Referendum The share price exceeded 10 for much of the period and closed The Companys primary purpose is to provide investment returns the year at 10.44.
A high share price can be unattractive to new to Shareholders and it is not the Boards intention to take a investors while also making the administration of Savings political stance over the Referendum on Scottish independence Schemes difficult since small amounts are invested on a regular which will take place on 18 September 2014.
Scottish Mortgage, basis and a large share price presents an unhelpful lack of as its name suggests, is registered as a Scottish company and granularity as savers cannot buy fractions of shares.
To improve the Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co, form a Scottish partnership.
marketability and as described in the accompanying Circular, a The Board is well aware of the issues arising out of the vote and sub-division of each of the current ordinary shares of 25p shares there are many actions that might be taken to prepare for various into five ordinary shares of 5p nominal value is proposed.
This contingencies, and all of these come at a cost.
Consequently, our means that, if the Resolution is approved, your holding will be current view is that to start any processes now before the result of multiplied by five as of 30 June 2014, while the share price in the the vote is known and before the relevant putative issues have market will presumably adjust accordingly.
For those who hold emerged would not be a good use of Shareholders funds and their shares in certificated form, new share certificates will be management resource.
issued and the old certificates will become invalid.
In the event of a Yes vote we understand that there will be a period of negotiations which will probably be followed by a transitional period following independence.
Consequently the Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Strategic Report Board believes it will have ample time to assess the economic including taxation and currency, political and regulatory landscape which might emerge and to formulate Scottish Mortgages response accordingly.
This Referendum is only one of a variety of political risks facing the Company which are considered by the Board on a regular basis.
The Directors are aware that a large number of Shareholders are resident outside Scotland and they will act in a pragmatic and measured way to ensure that Shareholders interests as a whole are protected.
Board and AGM I am very pleased that Dr Paola Subacchi agreed to join the Board with effect from 1 April 2014.
Paola brings to the Board a broad set of skills and knowledge that spans political and economic fields both in Europe and China.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at Baillie Giffords offices at 4.30pm on 26 June 2014.
As usual, James Anderson and Tom Slater will make a presentation on the investments and take questions.
I do hope you will be able to attend.
Investment and Outlook In investment terms this has been a significant period for Scottish Mortgage.
I have covered performance earlier and now re-iterate the Boards wholehearted endorsement of the Managers core investment beliefs which are again set out in an unchanged form in this Report on page 14.
It is the strict adherence to these well articulated beliefs which represent the foundations of the Companys investment success over recent years.
The philosophy focuses on individual companies and seeks to ignore short term market noise and trends whose observance can be extremely destructive.
This philosophy does to a large extent render observations about the short term outlook and market preoccupations almost redundant.
I will restrict myself to noting that there has been continued progress at economic and company level.
Political factors as always act as a fide-stabilising element in the short term: the impact of the withdrawal of monetary stimulus may not be straightforward and there will be upsets as the Chinese economy adjusts towards an increasing domestic focus.
However, overall the commercial and trading environment for companies is broadly benign.
This, coupled with an outstanding and accelerating pace of technological advance across so many fronts, makes for an environment where well managed companies with sound strategies and an eye on the long term should be capable of making sustained and attractive returns.
Scottish Mortgages business is to back such companies and what is important is that our Managers see no lack of such opportunities.
John Scott Chairman 14 May 2014 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
