St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 52 David Bellamy reports on the achievements of the Company in detail on pages 2 to 4 of the Annual Report and Accounts and Andrew Croft reports on financial developments on pages 14 to 16.
In addition, the Committee Chairmen report on the work of their committees over the year.
My task is to provide an overview of the work of the Board of the Company and its support for and oversight of the Group, its operations and its strategy.
As noted elsewhere in this report, we have seen considerable change in the last year: in the economy, in our market place, for our clients, in politics, in financial services and in other areas of regulation.
It seems unlikely that the rate of change will decrease and we need to continue to adapt to new circumstances as effectively as we have done in the past.
Against this background, Chairmans your Board has been determined to ensure our business retains a consistent approach.
St. Jamess Place is unusual in its Report commitment to the centrality of the relationship between our clients and their Partners.
This means that the distance between our clients and Partners, and the Boardroom is quite short, and Sarah Bates the flow of both informal and formal information is rapid.
Clients and Partners appear to appreciate this approach and it ensures the Board has access to very direct information about the marketplace for our services.
This continues to be invaluable in the development of our strategy and in our understanding of the I am pleased we are reporting external risks to our approach.
to you on another good year Long-term Focus A significant part of my task is to keep the Boards focus on the for St. Jamess Place plc, its long term and on how the business should adapt and develop for the next 20 years, having been so successful in the first 23 years of clients, shareholders, Partners, its existence.
More information about the variety of opportunities and threats we considered in our strategic discussions staff and other stakeholders.
particularly in specific sessions in April and September can be found on page 55 and a summary of our review of the principal risks and challenges from and to our strategy and business model is recorded on page 36.
However a key part of the debate involved exploring more generally what sort of strategic risks we might take.
We concluded that we must continue carefully to evolve what we do.
Where we safely can, we will add to the range of services we provide to our clients, including making further small overseas moves, but we wont take significant strategic risks.
We still see considerable opportunity in our own market place and must strive to keep doing what we currently do ever more effectively, evolving to meet the ways our clients expectations and preferences change.
Much of the input to the strategic discussions was developed with members of the Executive Management Team by considering the development of St. Jamess Place to 2020.
This included work on how to preserve our culture, the development of the operating model and infrastructure, the development of the Partnership and advisers, and the development of the Investment Management Approach over that timescale.
The Board was pleased to spend time with members of the EMT discussing their work and debating the vision for the future.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 complexity and scale of the business, we noted the need to bring Board and Executive Development different and diverse perspectives and approaches to our We were also pleased to see the expansion of the Executive Board discussions and considered that the best way of achieving our in the autumn with the appointment of four additional members, responsibilities to support and oversee the business was through Iain Rayner, Ian Mackenzie, Jonathan McMahon and Mike constructive dialogue.
The asymmetry of information between Gravestock.
This followed changes to the Investment Committee Executive and Non-executive directors was identified as a in the middle of the year, with the appointment of David Lamb as challenge and so we have developed methods of working to seek Chairman, the appointment of Davina Curlish and Steven Daniels to address this issue.
Informal topic-specific meetings have proved as non-executive members to the Committee, and significant useful, as did visits to particular areas of operation which the addition of internal resources to support the work of the NEDs undertook as a team.
I was pleased that both our new Investment Committee and Chris Ralph, our Chief Investment NEDs were able to comment favourably on the openness of the Officer.
It also built on the appointment of Jonathan McMahon as business and the access they have within the organisation.
our new Chief Risk Officer, and Bill Tonks as the Group Audit Director at the start of the year.
All of these changes reflect the Our internal but thorough Board evaluation process at the end of growth in our Group and anticipate the continued increase in 2014 provided useful feedback on how these developments were complexity of our activities and environment.
There was common agreement that we had made good progress in developing our strategic discussions, in developing our Overseeing the building of the executive team for the future is an risk discussions and in developing a way of working in which important part of our Board responsibility, as is succession there continue to be no no-go areas.
More detail of the findings planning for the Board itself and for the CEO.
The expansion and can be found on page 56 but a key message was that we should development of the internal team is part of that planning.
We continue in the same direction.
For 2015, our Board objectives were also pleased that Simon Jeffries and Roger Yates joined the will include overseeing the development of the new Executive board as Independent Non-executive Directors, at the beginning Boards oversight of the day to day running of the business, and of the year.
Simon took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee the flow of information which allows it to do that, as the as well as joining the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Roger organisation becomes more complex.
We will undertake an has taken over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and external Board evaluation in 2015, led by Boardroom Dialogue.
has joined the Risk and Audit Committees.
Iain Cornish was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Risk Committee, at the beginning of the year.
Vivian Bazalgette Corporate Governance stepped down from the Board in June for family reasons, and we Finally, there are many rather strongly held views about the role are very grateful for the contribution he made to the Investment of the Board and Corporate Governance.
St. Jamess Place has an Committee and to the board over the period of his service.
unusual position in these debates, as both a listed company itself, Following the new Non-executive Director appointments made at seeking to meet the requirements of our shareholders, and also as the beginning of this year and our Board evaluation process in custodian of our clients assets.
We are both the subject and 2014, we do not see an immediate requirement to appoint any object of corporate governance activity.
In promoting a culture of further Non-executive Directors to the Board.
Our CEO doing the right thing we are clear about our responsibility to our succession plans are also longer term.
It has always been important to us that our fund managers should engage with the companies in which they invest Ensuring we have the best people within our community has been by voting their stock, but this is a topical area in which we will be an important topic of discussion for the Board during the year further developing our thinking in 2015.
I am, of course, available with particular focus on diversity.
Our industry is not particularly to talk to shareholders and can always be contacted via our diverse with regard to gender and we have found no evidence of Company Secretary details on page 176 systematic gender discrimination in the Group.
However, if we are limiting the opportunities for particular groups, however As I suggested at the start, it has been another good year for unintentionally, we are not being as effective as we could be and St. Jamess Place, but also for your Board, and we are delighted so Ian Gascoigne and I have begun some more systematic research with the proposed final dividend of 14.37 pence per share.
into patterns of female participation in different parts of our community from which we hope to learn in 2015.
Board Culture and Evaluation At the beginning of 2014, the Board spent some time talking about how it could be most effective and meet the expectations Sarah Bates and requirements of its various stakeholders.
We noted the need Chairman to meet formal governance requirements, as they encourage 24 February 2015 debate and transparency and provide mechanisms to deal with problems should they arise.
We also noted the essential responsibility of the Board to sustain and promote the culture of doing the right thing, without which it would be very difficult to deliver safe and sustainable growth.
