234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 2 Active investment working for you Strategic report Chairmans statement Following a strong performance in the of the year, and thus qualifying for the previous year, 2014 was much more final dividend, while being accretive to difficult for our shareholders in terms net asset value, further impacted both of absolute and relative returns.
negatively the revenue earned per The total return on the net assets of share.
Offsetting these factors was Temple Bar in 2014 was -1.7%, which the receipt of a substantial special compares with a total return for the dividend from Direct Line which FTSE-All Share Index of 1.2%.
ultimately led to the proposed However, Temple Bar continues dividend for the current year being significantly to outperform its fully covered by revenue generated benchmark over both 5 and 10 year from portfolio investments.
a significant benefit of investment The Managers Review highlights trusts that revenue reserves can be the positive and negative constituents used to smooth dividend payments if of performance during the year and there is a revenue shortfall in a concludes that the performance lag particular year.
was due mainly to individual stock The Board is, therefore, selections that were unsuccessful over recommending a final dividend of the period, in contrast to the influence 23.33p, to produce a total dividend of larger themes.
As I have highlighted for the year of 38.88p, an increase of payable in respect of the current year previously, the contrarian value 3.0%.
The dividend will be payable on on 30 June, 30 September and approach adopted by the Manager 31 March 2015 to shareholders on the 30 December before a final dividend is and his team focuses on the purchase register at 13 March 2015.
This is the paid in late March 2016.
The Board is of out of favour stocks: these stocks 31st consecutive year in which the conscious of the income requirements can often move more out of favour dividend has been increased.
of many of its shareholders and after purchase, for both good and bad intends, on current expectations, that reasons, in the near term.
This Quarterly Dividends shareholders will receive payments highlights that this style of investing In accordance with previous amounting to at least those received requires participation over longer time notifications to shareholders, with under the previous arrangements and periods for the proven benefits to effect from the financial year which that the progressive annual dividend emerge.
started on 1 January 2015 the growth of the last 31 years will be As in 2013, the Manager was Company will pay dividends on a maintained.
reluctant to chase yield at a time quarterly basis.
A final dividend for when it appeared to be unattractively the 2014 financial year will be paid on Gearing priced.
Additionally, the large number 31 March 2015, following which there I mentioned in my Statement last of new shares issued towards the end will be three interim dividends year that the Company had taken out in 2013 an additional 50 million private placement loan, repayable in 2028, in order to secure attractive Temple Bar continues significantly to long term fixed rate funding at an outperform its benchmark over both 5 and 10 opportune time.
This loan forms part of the Boards overall approach to year periods.
The total dividend has been debt management, mindful that one of the Companys two debentures increased by 3% and the share price reached a matures in 2017.
Given the long term record high during the year.
nature of the loan, the Board does not 2 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 3 Active investment working for you Strategic report Chairmans statement continued feel an immediate necessity to invest Accordingly, it is seeking approval the portfolio manager, Alastair Mundy, the proceeds, but will seek to deploy from shareholders to renew the share will make a presentation reviewing these funds as appropriate issue and repurchase authorities at the past year and commenting on the opportunities arise.
At the year end, the forthcoming Annual General outlook.
He will also be available to the Companys gearing was Meeting.
answer any questions alongside the immunised by its holdings of cash and Directors.
Shareholders who are related liquid assets.
Alternative Investment Fund unable to attend the AGM in person Manager Directive AIFMD are encouraged to use their proxy New Share Issues In accordance with AIFMD the vote.
The Companys shares have generally Company appointed Investec Fund been trading at a premium to net Managers Limited IFM as its Outlook asset value for a substantial period.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager The Manager has been concerned for The Board believes that it is important on 21 July 2014 under a new some time that the regime of low to manage proactively any premium investment management agreement.
interest rates prevalent both in the UK or discount and, accordingly, it favours Portfolio management has been and internationally has encouraged regular small issues of shares to delegated by IFM to Investec Asset investors to seek higher returns in maintain any premium at a Management Limited IAM, thus alternative instruments and has reasonable level.
During the year a retaining previous portfolio pushed many asset prices to levels total of 3,549,517 ordinary shares management arrangements.
In beyond their fair value.
There is were issued raising proceeds of 42.9 addition, as required under the AIFMD, potential for this search for yield to million.
There were no share the Company appointed HSBC Bank end badly, exacerbated by the lack of repurchases during the year.
The Board to act as its depositary and custodian.
liquidity in many markets and the considers that its policy towards share IAM continues to act as Company realisation by these investors that issuance and its preparedness to carry Secretary to the Company.
they have bought assets far more out share repurchases, if required, has volatile than the cash they switched helped to constrain premium discount Annual General Meeting from.
While central bankers continue volatility in the past and therefore The AGM will be held at Woolgate to adopt aggressive policies, with debt recommends that the existing Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, worldwide having grown significantly authorities to issue new ordinary London EC2V 5HA on 30 March 2015 since the financial crisis and shares for cash and to repurchase at 11.00 a. m. and I would encourage valuations far from cheap, the shares in the market for cancellation shareholders to attend.
In addition to Manager expects the turbulence of or to hold in Treasury be continued.
the formal business of the meeting recent months to continue.
It is anticipated that this will produce some attractive investment opportunities.
John Reeve Chairman 24 February 2015 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3
