CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Key Points NAV was 591.8 pence per share, a decrease of 14.6% compared to the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index which decreased by 9.9%.
On a five year basis the NAV has increased by 97.7% while the benchmark has increased by 71.7%.
Share price was 527.0 pence per share, a decrease of 17.7%, giving a total return of -16.8%.
On a five year basis the share price has increased by 89.6%.
Revenue earnings per share of 9.14 pence, up 8.2%.
Proposed dividend per share of 7.25 pence, an increase of 16.0%.
Franklin Templeton fee reduced from 1.20% to 1.10% from 1 July 2014. total return in sterling.
Peter A Smith Chairman Overview and Investment Performance It is disappointing to report that our net asset value The year to 31 March 2014 was difficult for emerging underperformed our benchmark during the year under markets equities, as valuations were heavily impacted by review.
The Investment Managers report provides further macroeconomic and, in later months, geopolitical events.
information, which for the 12 months to 31 March 2014 is As has been the case since the credit crisis, international summarised in the table below: cash flows were a key driver of market values.
The United 31 March 31 March Capital Total States quantitative easing program in prior years had led to 2014 2013 Return Return large amounts of cash being available for investment which Net asset value previously had the effect of driving up the value of emerging cum income 591.8 702.3 16.0% 14.6% markets equities as international investors with excess cash Share price 527.0 640.5 17.7% 16.8% sought attractive returns.
During the year under review, MSCI Emerging discussion of tapering the US asset purchasing program Markets Index 12.5% 9.9% led, particularly in the first quarter of our financial year April to June 2013, to large amounts of money being withdrawn Indices above are shown on a total return basis in sterling.
from emerging markets with an inevitable negative effect Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and FactSet.
Subsequently, announcements by the US Federal Reserve that it would delay tapering, coupled with On 27 May, the latest date for which information was reforms announced by the Chinese government, led to some available, the NAV per share had risen by 3.4% to 612.1 pence recovery in prices later in 2013. and the share price by 5.3% to 555.0 pence.
Tapering did, however, commence in January 2014 and this, TEMIT holds a continuation vote every five years.
Over combined with the political crisis in Ukraine, and continued the last five financial years, the NAV total return has political disruption in Thailand and Turkey led to further falls outperformed in three years and underperformed in two, in prices.
However, we have experienced periods of relative under performance before and the five year A further factor affecting TEMITs performance was the returns in the table below show that the net asset value on relative strength of sterling.
In local currency terms, the a total return basis has almost doubled over those five years constituents of the MSCI Emerging Markets Index made a and has produced superior returns.
Further, this year TEMIT small gain over the year, but when translated into sterling, celebrates its silver jubilee and it is very gratifying to examine the Index fell by 9.9% on a total return basis.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED the long-term numbers.
The benchmark index has done Shareholders should bear in mind that the Companys well, producing an almost tenfold return, but TEMITs NAV primary objective is capital growth and income distribution is total return is up over twenty times.
The flow of dividends from emerging market companies is not always consistent and the 5 Years since Since Launch increases in dividend income seen in recent years may not be 31 March 2009 in 1989 repeated in the future.
annualised annualised Discount and Share Buy Backs Net asset value 97.7% 14.6% 2,145.4% 13.4% During the year shares traded at discounts between 7.4% cum income and 12.3% of NAV with an average of 9.6% and at the end Share price 89.6% 13.7% 1,916.0% 12.9% of the year the discount stood at 10.9%.
As explained above, demand for emerging markets shares has weakened and, MSCI Emerging 71.
7% 11.4% 948.7% 10.0% inevitably, this has had an effect on the Companys rating.
Markets Index During the financial year under review the Company bought Indices above are shown on a total return basis in sterling.
back 4,525,000 shares, at a total cost of 24.9 million and Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and FactSet.
at an average discount of 9.8% resulting in a small benefit of 2.7 million to continuing shareholders.
TEMIT has performed very well over the long-term.
The Investment Manager has consistently taken the view that, in Your Board continually monitors the share price discount to volatile markets, it is important to see through the noise net asset value and exercises its right to buy back shares when and focus on the longer term potential of companies.
The the Board considers that it is in shareholders interests to do Investment Manager continually monitors and reassesses our so.
Several shareholders questioned the need for, and effect investments but a key feature of the approach to investment of, share buybacks at last years Annual General Meeting is a relatively low level of portfolio turnover, which this year AGM and we have set out a further explanation in the was 15.5%.
Into the foreseeable future, economic growth in emerging Franklin Templeton Fees markets is forecast to be at a significantly higher rate than Your Board is pleased that Franklin Templeton has proposed that in developed markets and it is this overall theme which a reduction in its fees, from 1.20% to 1.10% per annum with the Investment Manager seeks to capture by focussing on effect from 1 July 2014.
Your Board will continue to monitor investing in companies with the potential to benefit from any further developments in the market as regards both such growth.
In particular, a rapidly growing middle class structure and quantum of charges, but believe that this lower in developing economies, with increasing demand for level of fee, together with the liquidity of the Companys commodities and consumer goods, underlie the case for shares and the relatively stable discount, maintains the investing in TEMITs portfolio of companies.
overall attractiveness of TEMIT as an emerging markets investment.
Investment income and the dividend Income received from our investment portfolio has continued Regulation to grow and I am pleased to report a further increase in Many shareholders may be aware that the European Unions revenue earnings per share.
The Income Statement on page 64 Alternative Investment Fund Manager s Directive AIFMD shows total dividend income earned of 61.6 million in the came into force on 22 July 2013 and that companies such year to 31 March 2014.
This represents an increase of 3.5% as TEMIT have a transition period until 22 July 2014, to over the prior year.
This translates into net earnings of comply with the Directive.
The main thrust of the Directive 9.14 pence per share, an increase of 8.2% over the prior year.
is one of protecting investors from undue or unexpected risk.
This year your Board is pleased to propose a further increase Implementation of the Directive has necessitated a number in the dividend to 7.25 pence per share, an increase of of changes to our formal investment management and 16.0% on last year.
administration agreements with Franklin Templeton and 6 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC will require the appointment of J. P. Morgan Europe Limited Hamish Buchan will also join the Nomination and as our depositary.
The new contracts will be put into place Remuneration Committee.
ahead of the Companys AGM and will mean that the Beatrice Hollond was appointed as a Director on 1 April Company will be in compliance with the relevant AIFMD 2014.
Beatrice has had a long career in the investment requirements.
We have taken the opportunity to refresh, industry, working initially with Morgan Grenfell Asset clarify and modernise certain sections of the contract, Management as a UK equity analyst and with Credit so shareholders should note that, while AIFMD requires Suisse Asset Management for 16 years where her final role substantial changes to legal agreements, the same individuals was as a Managing Director in their Global Fixed Income in terms of investment managers, company secretary and business.
Her deep experience in portfolio and investment administration will continue to provide these services.
management and her knowledge of the investment company In addition to some increased protection afforded to sector will be invaluable to TEMIT.
investors from depositary oversight, the Directive places In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the additional responsibilities on the Alternative Investment Financial Reporting Council in September 2012, all Directors Fund Manager regarding risk management and delegation are required to retire each year.
With the exception of Sir Peter oversight.
Further details of the new arrangements are set out Burt who will retire, each member of the Board will stand in the Directors Report on page 44. for election.
As part of the annual Board evaluation review, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee considered Asset allocation and gearing the skills and contribution of all the Directors and this year The general policy of the Company is to be fully invested.
recommends their election in each case.
Details of each of the As at 31 March 2014, 96.9% of TEMITs net assets Directors can be found starting on page 37. were invested in equities 31 March 2013: 98.8%.
The Investment Managers normally run the portfolio with only Investor communications a small cash balance and the unusually high level of cash at The Board and Investment Manager aim to keep the year-end was due to some assets having been sold and shareholders informed and up to date with information the resultant cash held pending reinvestment.
about the Company as well as seeking feedback and Your Board regularly reviews its policy on gearing and we comment from investors.
We hold investor briefings and continue to take a cautious stance.
This caution is borne out discussions.
We send out the Annual and Half Yearly Report, by the periods of volatility which are a feature of emerging as well as notices of any significant Company events to equity markets and are generally unpredictable in both registered shareholders.
We also release information through timing and extent.
Our policy, therefore, remains that in the stock exchanges, where we are listed, such as the Interim exceptional circumstances, and for short periods, TEMIT Management Statements.
co. uk may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
Borrowing facilities displays the latest news, price and performance information, were not used during the three years to 31 March 2014. portfolio details, quarterly web updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with topical issues in emerging The Board markets.
Via the website you can also ask to have the latest Sir Peter Burt will retire at this years AGM after 10 years as Company information e-mailed directly to you.
Peter has brought his considerable experience all shareholders to register on our website and make full to bear in his role as a Director and, on behalf of my fellow use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you Directors and the team at Franklin Templeton, I would like informed about your Company.
to thank him for his strong insights, advice and support over the last 10 years.
Scottish referendum Your Company is incorporated in Scotland and the Following Sir Peters retirement, the Nomination and current Scottish Government will hold a referendum on Remuneration Committee proposes that Neil Collins independence from the United Kingdom on 18 September will assume the role of Senior Independent Director and 2014.
We will continue to monitor developments and, Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
in particular, any change to current tax, regulation and TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED company law which either an independent Scotland, or a Scotland with greater autonomy within the United Kingdom, may pursue and take any appropriate steps to protect shareholders interests.
The Board has noted that some Scottish companies have taken precautionary steps to facilitate a migration to England.
At this stage, it is not clear whether the taxation and regulatory regime would be better or worse for shareholders than that in Scotland and, therefore, because all the commentators suggest there will be a lengthy period of transition if there were to be a Yes vote, we have elected not to incur unnecessary expense at this time.
Outlook TEMIT will continue to be managed in a way which is consistent with its established long-term, patient approach and with substantially all of its assets invested in emerging markets equities.
The focus remains on companies which are expected to be best able to ride out the short-term political and economic storms and benefit from the effects of strongly growing economies and the growing spending power of increasingly wealthy populations.
AGM and Continuation Vote I would like to take this opportunity to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD at 12 noon on Friday 18 July 2014 where there will be an opportunity to meet the Board and the Investment Manager and hear the latest news on your Company, its investments and the markets, as well as taking part in the formal annual meeting of the Company.
More details of this meeting can be found on page 82 of this report.
This years AGM is particularly important as we are holding a Continuation vote.
Given the strong long-term performance record of TEMIT and the Boards and Investment Managers view that emerging markets are likely to produce superior returns over the long-term, I and my fellow directors urge you to vote in favour of Continuation.
Peter Smith 13 June 2014 8 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
