STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement IN SUMMARY Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc Entered exclusivity agreement for proposed saleofVirgin Mobile France Strong set of results from CPW, despite challenging conditions in parts of Mainland Europe Recommended final dividend of 4.00p per share tobepaid on 1 August 2014 Key strategic developments with Connected WorldServices 2014 sees the 25th anniversary since Carphone Warehouse first ontoaFull MVNO platform.
For some while, we have signalled that, opened for business in 1989.
Companies have to constantly adapt potentially, Virgin Mobile France could be for sale and, in May and change, and our history over the last 25 years has been an thisyear, together with its other shareholders, we announced an incredible journey of identifying the challenges and opportunities exclusivity agreement for its proposed sale to Numericable Group.
inour fast-changing marketplace, navigating the former and taking We have made some key strategic developments in our Connected advantage of the latter.
I am immensely proud of our track record World Services business, including our preferred-partner agreement ofdoing this.
It has kept our business moving forward, thriving with Samsung to roll out and manage its stores across Europe.
andgenerating great returns for our employees, trading partners, Connected World Services is our B2B business, in effect exporting customers and shareholders.
All this is particularly relevant as we our systems and expertise to other businesses wanting to build value plan taking the next step in our journey with the proposed merger centred around connected devices and services.
We see considerable ofequals with Dixons Retail plc.
potential, over time, for Connected World Services to extend Carphone Financially, Carphone Warehouse has had a strong year.
We have Warehouse into a global organisation, making low demands on capital delivered on our guidance, increasing pro forma Headline EBIT from expenditure and management.
It is also at the heart of the rationale 132m to 151m.
Improved pro forma EBIT, together with the benefits for our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc.
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe, have resulted in a 59% increase While our marketplace and our business have seen incredible change in our Headline EPS from 11.6p to 18.4p.
Given our overall performance, over the past 25 years, at its core, Carphone Warehouse is still doing financial strength and prospects, we are delighted to recommend what it originally set out to do to provide simple, independent, impartial afinal dividend of 4.00p per share, up 23% on the final dividend for advice over a bewildering variety of devices, networks andtariffs, 2013.
This is expected to be paid on 1 August 2014 to shareholders and in the process, to simplify complex technology and deliver its onthe record as of 11 July 2014 and will bring the full year dividend potential to our customers.
As I look ahead, this will continue to be to 6.00p per share, up 20% on 2013. the case with our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc.
We know Strategically and operationally, we have also moved our business on.
the value that can be created by placing Carphone Warehouse stores In our UK retail operations, we have significantly enhanced our customer within their outlets.
And we are proposing the merger just at the time service offering through introducing Pin Point, a tablet-based sales that we are seeing domestic devices and services of all kinds increasingly tool.
This has helped drive customer satisfaction to record levels.
We have a deep respect for each other: we share We are also riding the dynamism of 4G.
The speed, range of new a commitment tocustomer service: and we wish to create a new devices, increased data usage and new 4G tariffs have all increased retailer for a newdigital age.
Ihope to be able to report at our annual our appeal to customers, building on our long-standing reputation general meeting that you have separately approved the merger and for impartial advice and value.
Iwillfeelprivileged tobeleading the new combined group.
In the tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France has again proved resilient, retaining value for its shareholders by focusing Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman onmaintaining its contract customer base and migrating this COMPANIES HAVE TO CONSTANTLY ADAPT AND CHANGE IN ORDER TO GROW Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman Carphone Warehouse Group plc 04 Annual Report 2014
