STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement Caroline Burton Chairman details are contained later in the report.
Notwithstanding Introduction these timing differences the Board are pleased to Property and property equities continue to attract investor announce the dividend increase which brings the Trusts attention offering a recurring income stream greater than record of annual increases to 20 out of the last 21 years the majority of fixed income products but with the the dividend was held level in 2010. advantage of the potential for underlying growth ahead of inflation.
My closing remarks at the half year touched on I would also like to bring the performance of our physical the lack of new commercial property development begun assets this year to your attention, in particular two of our over the last five years and this lack of supply remains a London holdings, The Colonnades in Bayswater and Park cornerstone of our managers optimism as tenant demand Place in Vauxhall which between them increased in value steadily returns to a growing list of markets across Europe.
after taking account of all costs by a remarkable 56%.
His report will explore in more detail where this is The IPD monthly index returned 14.0% in the same translating into both rental and capital growth.
In both cases detailed asset management plans have come to fruition delivering strong valuation growth The attractions of the sector continue to be felt in the with the expectation of more to come.
Again further detail demand for the Trusts shares.
Over the first 6 months of is given in the Managers report.
the financial year the discount to the with income NAV averaged -7.1% having started the year in April 2013 at NAV and Share Price Performance -13.4%.
Over the second half it averaged -3.8% and I am pleased to report that the NAV total return for the finished the year at -2.9%.
As I mentioned in the Interim year was 22.4% whilst the benchmark total return was Report we have seen a modest, but evidently growing, self- 14.9%.
The share price total return was even greater at directed investor group responding to the new found 37.7% reflecting both the growth in NAV and the transparency in advisory fees.
The fund remains the only narrowing of the discount.
Investment Trust with a mandate to invest in pan European property companies and this together with our size and More detail and commentary on performance is set out in liquidity continues to prove attractive to private investors.
Investors will no doubt notice not only the substantial Revenue Results increase in earnings this year but also the fact that the The year on year revenue growth is encouraging albeit dividend has not grown by the same proportion.
Although that the 2014 result is affected by a number of one-offs the underlying income has continued to grow on a likefor-like basis there were a number of timing differences of and timing differences that will reverse or not be repeated income receipts, compared to the previous year, which in 2015.
A more detailed analysis is given in the explain the greater than expected revenue result.
TR Property Investment Trust 3 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years rebased 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return TR Property Net Asset Value Total Return Dividend In the current low interest environment, gearing through The Board is proposing a final dividend of 4.6p, 5.7% the CFD portfolio remains an attractive option.
ahead of the final dividend for the prior year and bringing Currencies the total dividend for the year to 7.45p, an increase of In last years Annual Report my predecessor commented 6.4% over the 7.00p paid last year.
on European currency volatility throughout 2012.
I am pleased to report that we have not experienced the same Revenue Outlook levels of volatility this year.
Over the last 12 months Some of the timing changes that have led to an increase in Sterling strengthened against the Euro by approximately the earnings for the year to March 2014, will not be repeated 2%.
As in previous years the fund has not hedged the in the 2015 financial year.
In addition, development activity at income account but has continued to hedge the capital the Colonnades will lead to lower income from the property currency exposure in line with the benchmark.
Therefore, we expect lower earnings for the year to March 2015.
Discount and Share Repurchases I have already commented on the discount in my opening The fall in rental income is expected to be temporary, so remarks.
Whilst the gap between the NAV and the share although earnings may fall in the short term, providing the price has narrowed over the year our manager was still Board is able to see earnings support in the longer term, able to buy back and cancel a small number of shares we will be prepared to utilise some of the reserves the 375,000 at a discount of 15% from April to June 2013.
Company has, therefore we anticipate being able to maintain a small progression in the dividend.
Our manager continues to be tasked with investor communication and our dedicated website www.
Net Debt and Gearing trproperty.
com provides current and extensive Gearing increased over the period, beginning the year at background data on the Trust.
Our revolving facility with RBS was renewed in January and as previously reported the We have increased the number of ways of investing in ING facility was renewed for a further two years in May.
The Trust is offered as part of the F&C savings are looking at other potential providers with the repayment plans and our Registrars, Computershare, offer dealing of the debenture loan coming into view in 2016. options for certificated holders and a Dividend 4 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement continued Reinvestment Plan DRIP option for the reinvestment of finance.
Elsewhere in Europe, even though rental values dividends for holders on the main register.
Further details have not begun to increase, property investment markets can be found on pages 80 to 84. are thawing fast as capital seeks to buy into these perceived recovery plays, particularly in the peripheral Board Changes nations.
Hugh Seaborn became the Senior Independent Director in July 2013 following my appointment as Chairman.
Whilst this is good news for asset values our managers John Glen joined the Board in February 2014 and his remain focused on the real estate fundamentals.
This biography is detailed on page 29. means that they remain positive towards those markets where rents are responding to tenant demand even Broker Appointment though many share prices are standing at, or in excess of, In April 2013 the Trust announced the appointment of Oriel historic asset values and they remain confident about the Securities as joint broker alongside Cenkos Securities plc.
inherent growth in these well managed businesses.
They remain positive on the economic outlook in the UK and Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive alongside the activity in the existing UK physical portfolio AIFMD they have been seeking to selectively increase the With AIFMD due to come into force in July, the Board is physical exposure focusing, as they have done in the past, preparing for the legislative changes.
The company has on office and industrial property in the South of England.
agreed in principle to appoint F&C Asset Management as Shortly after the year end the Trust exchanged contracts the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, with the to purchase an industrial unit in Plymouth let to Invensys Investment Management function sub-delegated to the for a further 8 years at a net initial yield of 8.6%.
They are existing Manager, Thames River Capital LLP.
BNP Paribas actively considering other opportunities.
is expected to be appointed as the Depository.
These appointments are subject to final documentation and Our concern rests with the exuberance of investors where Board Approval but the formalities are expected to be underlying tenant demand remains fragile.
With fixed completed very shortly.
income returns looking increasingly unappealing capital is seeking alternatives such as commercial property.
Awards However rapid asset value inflation may lead to poorer At the annual Investment Week Awards 2013, the Trust than expected returns in the medium term if the won Property Investment Trust of the Year.
The judging anticipated economic improvement does not translate panel commented on both the performance and the successful remerger of the two share classes as into growth and jobs.
Caroline Burton Outlook Chairman The economic fundamentals across Europe are now more 9 June 2014 favourable for real estate than at any time in the last six years.
The return to growth experienced in the UK, Scandinavia and Germany is now feeding into tenant demand and rental growth.
Real wage inflation and rising house prices are key drivers of renewed consumer demand, a fundamental building block of growth.
Sources of debt finance, both traditional banking and non traditional private equity, insurance companies and private placements, have broadened and become increasingly competitive, to the benefit of companies we invest in.
Simultaneously many listed property companies have been able to take advantage of the capital markets both debt and equity to further reduce their cost of TR Property Investment Trust 5
