Will Samuel, Chairman TSB has taken anumber of important steps this year in establishing itself as an independent listed entity and in starting to deliver its growthstrategy.
03 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information A strong start.
The Board has paid particular regard to this environment when This is TSB Banking Groups first Annual Report and considering dividend policy, as well as the sub-scale nature Accounts as alisted business.
of the business and the need to preserve capital to safely support the growth strategy.
Taking all of this into account, and Ahead of the Companys listing in June, the Board was consistent with our expectation as first set out at the time of enlargedto provide an appropriate balance of skills, TSBs IPO, the Board continues to expect that TSBs inaugural experience, independence and knowledge of the company and dividend will be no earlier than 2018, in relation to the financial the UK retail banking market.
The Board is now comprised of year ending 31 December 2017.
The Board will keep the timing nine Non-executive Directors, five of whom are independent and quantum of dividend payments under review in the light of Non-executive Directors, and two Executive Directors.
Details progress on delivery of TSBs strategy and the evolution of the of each Board member and their background can be found in broader economic environment.
the Governance section on pages 38 to 39.
TSB was created to further competition in the UK retail banking As recently announced, Godfrey Robson will not seek market and will seek to do so through providing adifferent and re-election as aNon-executive Director at the Companys better kind of service to its customers.
To achieve this, TSB has 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM and will step down identified five values which all TSB colleagues, or as we call from our Board at that time.
Godfreys association with them, Partners, are expected to exhibit in conducting business.
TSBhas spanned 14 years, having first been appointed to They are to be Responsible, Transparent, Collaborative, theBoard ofTSB Bank plc Bank, then known as Lloyds Straightforward and Pioneering.
I believe that it is through TSBScotlandplc, in 2001. the behaviour of our Partners that TSB will truly differentiate itself and increasingly bring higher standards of service to The Board would like to thank Godfrey for his significant its customers.
contribution to the build of TSB and to the Companys successful IPO in 2014.
Godfrey has made amajor As we explained in our Initial Public Offering IPO Prospectus, contribution to the Company during his time on its Board and TSBs balance sheet is sub-scale relative to the cost of its that of the Bank, having overseen the development of TSB.
infrastructure, resulting in low underlying profitability and Godfrey has provided invaluable support and insight to the returns.
We therefore have an economic imperative to grow Companys Board in the period since IPO and we wish him to address this imbalance, bringing the size of TSBs balance well in his future endeavours.
sheet into proportion with the scale of its infrastructure.
As aresult, our strategy is one of growth and the strength of our In conclusion, I am pleased with the start TSB has made infrastructure is one of the key reasons why we believe this in implementing the strategy set out at the time of its listing.
Iwould like to thank our management team and all our Partners for all they have done to make 2014 ayear of great progress for 2014 was ayear of solid progress in this regard with apleasing TSB.
I look forward to ayear of further progress in 2015. demonstration of the Groups ability to grow its deposit base supported in part by the successful launch of our Classic Plus bank account.
In January 2015, we also made TSB mortgages available through brokers which will allow TSB to access the 60% of the UK mortgage market previously unavailable to it.
This channel is of great importance in achieving the asset growth targeted through our strategy and 2015 will be an important year in establishing this capability.
Will Samuel Chairman While TSB has made an encouraging start on its journey to establish itself and in pursuing its strategy of growth, I do not underestimate the longer term challenges posed to growing profitably given the prevailing competitive lending environment and the potential impact of an extended low interest rate outlook.
Both remain important influences on the shape of TSBs future financial success.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
