Strategic Report Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that during 2014 we have taken further The Board spent a considerable amount of time during 2014 steps to strengthen the Company to position it to succeed in reviewing its risk management governance arrangements and colouring itsobjective to create shareholder value.
One of the conclusions from thereview is that the Board should appoint a new Non-executive Market conditions remained challenging throughout 2014 as Director with extensive experience in risk management who the overall level of activity in the financial markets remained would chair a new Risk Committee of the Board, and in addition subdued, although there was some pick-up in activity in some act as the Non-executive Chairman of the businesss UK products and markets in the second half of the year.
regulated entities and their risk committees.
The Companys risk In the light of the continuation of difficult market conditions management governance arrangements are described in detail anumber of actions were taken during the year to further reduce later in the Strategic Report.
headcount and other fixed costs in order to maintain flexibility We have continued to actively engage with shareholders incosts and to better align the cost base with the lower level during2014, and I believe that we have established a useful ofrevenue.
The benefit of this cost improvement programme, andconstructive dialogue to ensure that the Board stays together with the continued benefit from cost management abreast ofthedevelopment of shareholder views on actions taken in previous years, is reflected in the maintenance governance, remuneration, and other key issues.
ofthe underlying operating margin at 14.3%, compared with 14.4% in the previous year, despite the reduction in revenue.
Strategy One of John Phizackerleys first actions was to conduct a The Company entered into an agreement with BGC in strategy review to evaluate our position and prospects in each January2015 under which BGC will pay $100m to the of our products and markets around the world.
This in-depth Company to settle the litigation in the New Jersey Superior strategy review exercise will culminate shortly, and the results Court.
It is pleasing tonote that, following this agreement, the will then be reported to shareholders.
group is not now involved in any significant legal proceedings.
The Company hasa duty to shareholders to seek to protect its Outlook legal rights andinterests, and we will not hesitate to initiate Tullett Prebon has produced a robust set of results reflecting proceedings should any party seek to breach them and astrong operational performance in what was another damage our business.
challenging year for the interdealer brokerage sector.
Due The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend toongoing cost discipline we have maintained our margins.
of11.25p per share, making the total dividend for the year Looking forward, we will continue to add products and 16.85p per share 2013: 16.85p per share.
The final dividend services to facilitate our clients strategies, incorporating will be payable on 14 May 2015 to shareholders on the register content and technologies that add value.
Our focus on at closeof business on 24 April 2015. conduct and culture emphasises our ongoing commitment to play a central role in global financial markets and to be viewed The Board has considered whether the settlement money as a trusted partner.
We will continue to look to make strides fromBGC should be returned to shareholders or retained to to exploit the opportunities in a consolidating marketplace.
fund business developments, including acquisitions.
In the lightof the opportunities to invest in products and services to The benefits from the acquisition of PVM and the arrival of facilitate our clients strategies that would further strengthen brokers from Murphy & Durieu will flow through in 2015.
PVM our business and earn an attractive return on capital, the significantly increases the scale of the Groups activities in the Boardhas decided that the funds should be retained for energy sector, and diversifies the Groups client base, reducing thosepurposes.
The Board does not have any intention our dependence on wholesale investment and commercial toholdcapital in excess of the Companys regulatory banks.
We will continue to expand the data content for our andbusiness development requirements.
highmargin, growing, Information Sales business through the oil price data generated from the PVM business, and through Board and Governance other exclusive data content deals.
I was delighted to welcome John Phizackerley as Tullett Prebons It remains difficult, however, to predict accurately the level new Chief Executive from the beginning of September 2014 ofactivity in the markets we serve.
Revenue in the first two toreplace Terry Smith.
John Phizackerley, known as Phiz, has a months of 2015, excluding PVM, and at constant exchange distinguished track record in the investment banking industry rates, is unchanged compared with the equivalent period last and wide international experience.
We will continue to show discipline on costs.
The benefit ofour customers needs and his regulatory expertise will be of the actions we have taken through the cost improvement invaluable in taking Tullett Prebon forward in these changing programme in 2014 will continue to flow through in 2015, times to the next stage in its development.
particularly in the first half.
The Board is immensely grateful to Terry Smith for his huge contribution to the business which he served as Chief Executive for over ten years.
Terry Smith had the vision to bring together Rupert Robson Tullett Liberty and Prebon Yamane to create what is today one Chairman of the leading interdealer brokers in the world.
He steered the 3 March 2015 Group through the financial and regulatory upheavals of the last few years, and created significant value for shareholders.
We all wish him well for the future.
4 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014
