Chairmans statement Mike Evans, Chairman We have evolved with the demands of the market to develop highly effective mobile andtablet platforms.
Zoopla Property Group has experienced another strong year in 2014.
Following oursuccessful IPO in June, I am delighted toannounce a positive set of results for the Group.
Our revenue and profits continue togrow.
Total income has increased by 24% to80.2 million and adjusted EBITDA has increased by 35% to 39.6 million, while we have continued to make significant long-term Our brand strength and investment.
The Group remains well funded reputation has grown and debt free.
strongly, supported by This accomplishment is due to a variety of factors.
We have continued to attract users to our sites because of the quality of marketing and a successful marketing products, providing a compelling user experience.
We have evolved with the demands of the market todevelop highly effective mobile campaign in thepast andtablet platforms.
Our sites, products and platforms have attracted a record 513 million visits overthe past 12 months, a substantial year increase from 386 million in2013.
Finally, growth of the Groups business partially depends on its strong brands and reputation to attract and retain users and, in turn, the members who choose to subscribe to and advertise on the Groups sites.
Our brand strength and reputation have grown strongly, supported by a successful marketing campaign in the past year.
Dividend The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 1.1 pence per share tobe paid in respect of the year ended 30 September 2014.
This will be paid on 23 February 2015 to all shareholders on the register on 5December 2014.
Capital structure The Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 23June2014.
This was facilitated by a number of our larger shareholders reducing their holdings and accepting a lock-in of their remaining shares for a period of six months from Admission.
Management agreed to lock-ins of 12 months.
Daily Mail and General Trust Plc DMGT remains the largest single investor with a31.8% holding.
AlexChesterman, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, continues tohold 4.1%.
Inaddition, we continue to build up a register of well regarded .
04 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Financial performance from Alex Chesterman and his team ensured the Group was able to Adjusted EBITDA was up 35% to 39.6 million 2013: 29.4 million successfully complete the IPO whilst continuing togrow the business.
and adjusted earnings per share EPS, which excludes exceptional Iam confident that the Zoopla Property Group team will execute the items, was up 20% to 6.5 pence pershare 2013: 5.4 pence per Groups strategy effectively, showing diligencethroughout.
The Group continues to generate high levels of cash and The Board and I would like to thank all of our users, members and asat30September 2014 the cashposition was 31.0 million employees for their commitment to the Group over the past 12 months.
It has been a challenging year but also a transformative andsuccessful one and I look forward to the future with confidence.
The Board In anticipation of the IPO, the Group reviewed and revised the Board composition, appointing three new independent Directors.
Our Board now has a diverse mix of backgrounds, skill and experience and its members are committed to setting the strategic direction whilst maintaining Mike Evans the highest standards of corporate governance and instilling a sound Chairman framework for the control and management of the Group, driving it to further success.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 26 and 27.
I joined the Board in May this year and have been extremely impressed by the dedication and determination of the Executive, Management and Employee teams.
Everyone at Zoopla Property Group is focused ondelivering excellent value to our estate agent, letting agent and new home developer members, while enhancing the user experience for consumers.
Going through an IPO process has thepotential to be hugely distracting for Management.
Careful and thoughtful planning Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
