Strategic report Chairmans statement Centamins corporate strategy seeks to deliver peerleading Our growth strategy seeks shareholder returns by taking gold projects from exploration, through development and into production.
to optimise exposure In this respect, 2014 was a pivotal year for the Company.
through the mining Our flagship Sukari Gold Mine saw the successful commissioning of the US$331 million Stage 4 process value chain: exploration, plant expansion, marking the projects transition out of the investment phase and into a sustainable period of free development and cash flow generation over an expected minimum 20year operations.
In recognition of this and due to the Companys strong financial position, the Board of Directors initiated a dividend programme during 2014 with a maiden interim dividend of 0.87 US cents per share.
The Company is now pleased to announce the approval of a final dividend for 2014 of 1.99 US cents per share totalling approximately Josef ElRaghy US$23 million which represents for the full year, a payout Chairman level of approximately 30% of our free cash flow as defined by our dividend policy.
The strong rampup in production rates associated with the expansion presented a number of operational challenges during 2014.
Although our strong track record of delivery against annual gold production guidance was affected by lowerthanexpected processing rates and underground grades, resulting in revised guidance, the fourth quarter saw annualised rates in excess of our long term 450500,000 ounce target.
Full year production of 377,261 ounces was a 6% increase on 356,943 ounces in 2013.
This strong end to the year was achieved as plant throughput exceeded the expanded 10Mtpa nameplate capacity and open pit grades increased in line with the mine plan.
Cost control remains an absolute focus of the Company and it is pleasing to note that, despite full year production of around 10% lower than forecast at the start of the year, the cash operating cost of US$729 oz was only marginally above our original US$700 oz guidance.
In line with the strong production rate, Q4 cash operating costs of US$655 oz point towards the longterm potential of the operation to deliver highlycompetitive cash margins.
10 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Processing plant at Sukari Centamin remains committed to its policy of being 100% The impact of a weaker gold price environment contributed exposed to the gold price through its unhedged position towards a 29% yearonyear reduction of EBITDA to and our balance sheet remains strong, with US$162.8 million US$165.4 million.
Profit after tax of US$81.6 million was in cash, bullion on hand, gold sales receivables and down 56% on 2013 and earnings per share of 7.21 cents availableforsale financial assets as at 31 December 2014. compare with 16.87 cents in 2013.
Gold production guidance for 2015 is 420,000 ounces at a cash operating During 2014 Centamin made good progress in securing cost of US$700 oz and allinsustaining cost AISC of its longerterm growth objectives.
The completion of the US$950 oz.
The northern and eastern walls of the open pit Ampella Mining acquisition in March gave us a substantial are a focus for 2015 and, as mining progresses through the footprint in the highly prospective regions of Burkina upper portions of the next stage of pit development, grades Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Subsequent to completion of are scheduled to progressively increase to the reserve the acquisition, a systematic exploration programme was average in the second half of the year, when production initiated aimed at developing the potential for further is expected to increase to the 450500,000 ounce per significant growth of the 1.9Moz Indicated and 1.3Moz annum rate.
Over the medium term, continued optimisation and higher productivity rates, in particular within the processing and underground mining operations, offer good potential for further production growth and reductions in AISC for no additional capital expenditure for expansion.
We therefore remain confident that Sukari will continue to deliver further incremental growth over the coming years.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 11 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued We take every action to ensure Sukari has the minimum impact on the social environment, as well as to deliver positive benefits to Egypt and the community as a result of our investment.
Whilst disciplined and sustainable growth on our existing Trevor Schultz resigned as an executive director and was projects remains a key focus, we continue to evaluate appointed as a nonexecutive director from 1 May 2014, opportunities to grow through the acquisition of projects coinciding with the successful completion of construction which offer the potential for the Company to deliver on its of the Stage 4 expansion and hand over to operations for strategic objectives.
Trevor has made an invaluable contribution to the establishment of Sukari as a globallysignificant The two litigation actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession gold mining operation, in particular with his recent role in Agreement, progressed in line with our expectations during overseeing the construction of the Stage 4 process plant.
the year and are described in further detail in Note 20 to the Such a major construction project that was completed financial statements.
In respect of the latter, the Company with minimal cost and time overruns is testament to his continues to believe that it has a strong legal position and, strong leadership and experience.
I am delighted that the in addition, that it will ultimately benefit from the new law Company and its shareholders continue to benefit from no.
32 of 2014, which came into force in April 2014 and Trevors counsel in his role as a nonexecutive director.
which restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge any contractual agreement between the Egyptian government Subsequent to the yearend, Professor G Robert and an investor.
This new law is currently under review by Bowker aged 65 retired as a nonexecutive director, the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt.
We are aware of effective from 26 January 2015.
Bob has been involved with the potential for the legal process in Egypt to be slow and the Company since 2008 and during this time the Centamin for cases to be subject to delays and adjournments but we team have benefited greatly from his insightful view of the remain confident of the merits of the two cases.
political landscape in Egypt and the wider region.
Bob has provided valued counsel to those that he has worked with The Group continues to benefit from the full support of the over the years and has been a part of the evolution of the Ministry of Petroleum and EMRA, both in the Concession Company from explorer to Egypts first modern gold miner.
Agreement appeal and at the operational level.
As part All of us at Centamin wish him well in the future.
of our longterm strategy, we look forward to continuing to share the benefits of this substantial investment as the This year, the Chairman of the Corporate Governance operation, having transitioned from its initial period of Committee has presented the corporate governance construction, sets the stage for a new era of gold mining report.
As Chairman of the Board I agree and endorse in Egypt.
both this report and the values of good governance reflected in it.
In my view Board effectiveness has been Subsequent to the year end, Andrew Pardey was appointed achieved, in no small part, by ensuring that communication as Chief Executive Officer CEO and joined the Board channels are open between all Board members and as an executive director from 1 February 2015.
Andrew has regular information is presented to the Board allowing been a driving force behind Sukaris growth into one of the all members to contribute knowledgeably at Board worlds leading gold mines and of Centamins development meetings and in discussions between the executives from a junior exploration company into one of the largest and nonexecutive directors.
gold producers in North Africa.
His experience and stewardship will be of invaluable benefit to the business as it continues to develop and realise its next stages of growth.
In my role as Chairman I look forward to continuing to work with the Company towards delivering substantial shareholder value through further development of our portfolio of assets.
12 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari, in Alexandria, Ethiopia, Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire, Jersey and Perth for their efforts in 2014 as Centamin continued on its journey to becoming an established cashgenerative gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned to deliver outstanding shareholder returns in the coming years as we adhere to our philosophy of focusing on free cash flow generation, returns to shareholders and growth through exploration.
I look forward to updating you further over the course of 2015, and would welcome you to join us at our AGM, which this year will be held in London on 18 May 2015.
This strategic review, progress on strategy, key performance indicators and business model together form the Strategic Report, which has been approved by the Board of Directors.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of Centamin plc.
Josef ElRaghy Chairman 23 March 2015 Blast hole drilling in Sukari pit Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 13
