06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Centrica is deeply conscious of the cost-of-living challenge facing many of our customers.
We remain focused on innovation as a way of helping our customers.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman I firmly believe that good corporate governance is an important enabler to the success and reputation of the Group.
Read more in Governance 49 Read more in our case study 11 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information secure and sustainable energy supplies.
2014 has undoubtedly been With this report, our intention is to offer a tough year for Centrica and ideas and solutions that help deliver carbon savings cost-effectively and to further the global energy industry as the debate on these critical issues.
In Centrica, we have Security of supply is vital to the UK as faced a number of challenges, our own North Sea gas reserves run out.
Additionally, up to one-third of the UK power including extreme weather generation plant is expected to retire by conditions in both the UK and 2020 due to age or environmental regulation.
To ensure energy security for the future, US, the volatile commodity we must pursue a diverse energy portfolio prices and the focus on to minimise the risk of reliance on one type of energy.
Utilising the benefits of the affordability and competition.
globalisation of the gas market, Centrica The most recent market events has been able to diversify its sources of gas, including the development of its liquefied have required us to take a natural gas LNG capability.
Importing LNG difficult decision regarding the is just one increasingly important focus area for Centrica as part of our commitment to dividend, a decision that the secure our future energy needs.
We have explored Board has not taken lightly.
Board composition pathways for future Since assuming the role of Chairman on Much of the Boards attention during the energy policy that are 1January 2014, I have spent a considerable year was focused upon succession planning.
amount of time talking to, and more As part of our planned and continuing both sustainable importantly listening to, our employees, evolution of the Board, there have been a and affordable.
customers, shareholders and wider number of changes to the composition of stakeholders.
What is clear is that the energy the Board during the year.
We advised in sector has remained at the forefront of last years report that Mary Francis and customers, regulators and governments Paul Rayner would continue in post during minds throughout the year.
The energy 2014 beyond their nine year term of office trilemma of affordability, decarbonisation and as the Board felt that their continued service security of supply remains current and the was of great benefit to the Company.
Both continuing debate on energy is still riddled Mary and Paul undertook this commitment with confusion.
In the UK, there has been and stepped down from the Board on a debate around the competitiveness of the 31December 2014.
I would like to express UK energy market and this has resulted in my thanks to each of them for the centrica.
com energychoices the ongoing investigation by the Competition professionalism and dedication they have and Markets Authority.
demonstrated throughout the time they have served on the Board and the contribution Iain Conn took up his office as Chief Centrica is deeply conscious of the that they have made to the Company.
I very much cost-of-living challenge facing many of our Ian Meakins succeeded Mary Francis as look forward to working with him as he customers.
We remain focused on innovation the Companys Senior Independent Director brings an impressive combination of both as a way of helping our customers understand with effect from 1 January 2015. upstream and downstream business and control their energy consumption, experience.
Iain possesses a deep helping them reduce their use and cut At the end of the year, Sam Laidlaw stood understanding of the energy sector built up carbon emissions.
We are developing new, down as Chief Executive as planned.
Sam over a lifetime in the industry.
His breadth of simple technologies both in the UK and was an exceptional ambassador for Centrica knowledge and commitment to customers North America and have acquired relevant and has shown outstanding leadership over and safety make him ideally suited to lead businesses to enhance our capabilities the past eight years.
Under his stewardship, Centrica in the next phase of its development.
Centrica has achieved strength and scale which is of great benefit to the energy sector, In addition, Nick Luff resigned as a director on We are fully committed to tackling climate building a technology-based customer 31 August 2014 and Chris Weston resigned change and have been working to explore service business in British Gas, a downstream on 30 December 2014.
I wish them both well pathways for future UK energy policy that business in the US and developing a more in their new roles and thank them for their are both sustainable and affordable.
I would like contributions during their time with Centrica.
conducted research using publicly available to thank Sam on behalf of the Board, data and published our findings Energy shareholders and our people for his enormous choices for the UK: Seeking affordable, commitment and contribution to Centrica.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED As part of our succession planning, we ensure that this was rigorous and covered will keep abreast of the global energy sector appointed Carlos Pascual as a Non-Executive the important influences on the Boards at a time of such unprecedented change Director of the Company with effect from effectiveness.
The evaluation was set against and respond appropriately for the benefit 1 January 2015.
Carlos brings a wealth a background of change at Board level during of all our customers and shareholders.
of experience to the Centrica Board with the previous 12 months and the findings have Despite all the external scrutiny, this is an his exceptionally strong international helped provide a clear agenda for Board exciting time for Centrica as we develop our background in energy affairs.
The Board and its Committees innovative technologies and respond to the on 18 February 2015, Steve Pusey will be are now working through a number of changing global energy sector.
Our people appointed as a Non-Executive Director of suggestions that were made as we strive have a crucial role to play in the opportunities the Company with effect from 1 April 2015. to achieve excellence as a leadership team.
that we face in a business that matters to Steves strong technology background society.
I know with certainty that we have Outlook will bring a new dimension to the Board.
a dedicated group of employees, working in Over the next few months the UK will many countries and many environments, and Board evaluation witness the lead-up to the UK general I would like to thank them all for their hard Centrica has for many years conducted a election and the public focus will remain on work and commitment over the past year.
thorough review of Board process, practice the affordability of energy supply.
In addition, and culture on an annual basis with the input the regulatory environment in which we Rick Haythornthwaite of an external facilitator at least once every operate will continue to be demanding in Chairman three years.
The Board considers such all our geographies with the Competition 19 February 2015 annual review as an essential part of good and Markets Authority investigation in the UK corporate governance.
In 2014, our due to report its findings in December 2015. effectiveness review was facilitated by Specialists and policymakers will continue to Independent Audit Limited.
They helped debate the energy trilemma.
At Centrica, we The energy trilemma: how do you reduce carbon from energy whilst keeping it affordable and secure?
Affordability Decarbonisation Energy security Energy companies Energy companies should Energy companies should should keep bills as get out of fossil fuels and focus on ensuring we have low as possible.
The UK must achieve Renewable power is We should use gas.
The UK needs to Many types of carbon targets to still more expensive Its cheaper, heating invest in our energy renewables are reduce CO2 emissions than fossil fuels, so 80% of homes at half infrastructure now in intermittent, meaning by 80% by 2050, the UK cant just the cost of electricity.
order to keep the the UK still needs even if this means switch immediately.
Our view We focus our upstream efforts on bringing gas to In our downstream business, we focus on the UK.
Gas is transportable, remains widely available installing energy efficiency measures to help and is the lowest carbon fossil fuel.
As such, it is an reduce consumption, which saves our customers essential component of a cost-effective transition to money, emits less carbon and reduces stress a low carbon future.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
