Strategic report Chairmans statement hope that after studying this report 2014 also saw us complete the food court you will be pleased as I am at the redevelopment at intu Lakeside and the way the business and the reputation transformation of the malls at intu Eldon Iof the Group has moved forward Square.
In addition, we commenced two through 2014, positioning ourselves to major catering and leisure projects at intu take full advantage of the recovery in Victoria Centre and intu Potteries and we the economy.
have moved the major extension at intu Watford forward to the point where we Overview of 2014 activity intend to commence the development In the course of the year under review, we in 2015. acquired two top UK shopping centres, Our branding, now two years old, is gaining intuMerry Hill and intu Derby.
This takes significant traction, the result of a fruitful our ownership to nine of the top 20 combination of the customer service in shopping centres in the UK.
Both of these our centres and our digital platform.
In our centres have enormous potential and we centres we introduced Tell intu allowing us are already seeing the benefits of our asset to meet customers changing requirements management as rental values and market faster.
Customer satisfaction has improved values have increased significantly in our measurably since its introduction.
Digitally, eight months of ownership.
we now have the majority of our major And in Spain, we announced the acquisition retailers on our website, intu.
co. uk, with of a top shopping centre, Puerto Venecia the likes of John Lewis, Next and Topshop in Zaragoza, which completed in January added this year.
This demonstrates the seriousness population visiting an intu centre at some of our intent to grow our business there.
point in the year, we now have nearly two The centre will be a model for creating million individuals on our online database.
high-quality shopping resorts at our Through all these actions, as well as the Spanish development options.
groundwork in previous years, we have We have completed a two-year delivered a total shareholder return of programme for refinancing the majority 24per cent in 2014. of the Groups debt.
Throughout this May I refer you to the interview with our period we have increased the tenor and Chief Executive on pages 16 and 17 where reduced the average cost of our debt.
David Fischel answers a number of key This strengthening of our financial position questions about the business and to the means that we are well placed to advance financial review presented by our Chief our development pipeline.
Financial Officer, Matthew Roberts, on pages 40 to 46, where you will find a more detailed assessment of our achievements, our challenges and our strategy.
6 6 I In nt tu u P Pr ro op per ertie ties s p pl lc c A An nnnu uaa l R l R ee pp oor rt 2 t 2 0 0 14 14 iin nt tu ug gr ro ou up.
p. c co. o. u uk k Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Corporate responsibility Dividends Shareholder return in 2014 Our centres make an important Your Directors are recommending a final contribution to their local neighbourhood dividend of 9.1 pence per share, bringing both because of their location and our the amount paid and payable in respect 2 4% close and necessary engagement with the of 2014 to 13.7 pence, unchanged from 2013: 7% communities around us.
Responding to our the bonus factor adjusted 2013 dividend.
corporate responsibility is an integral part A scrip dividend alternative will be offered.
of our commercial life through community, Looking forward environmental and stakeholder initiatives.
Reduction in C0 emissions 2 Over the last few years we have positioned since 2011 Our success in this field has been ourselves for the upturn in the economy.
validated by the achievement of several I believe we are now beginning to see high-profile awards.
We once again sustained, though small, improvements in achieved the Business in the Community disposable income, generally responding to 3 0% CommunityMark award, one of only 52 wage increases running ahead of inflation companies to be accredited.
This year and lower fuel prices.
Uncertainties and we were awarded the Best in continuing fragility remain, and this is not confined Carbon Reduction at the CarbonTrust just to the economic sphere: some Standard Bearers Awards, fordecreasing measure of caution is still therefore our carbon emissions by 30 per cent in desirable.
Retailers have also had a good three years.
You can read more about this end to 2014, which along with improved amazing achievement onpage 51. consumer confidence should see them growing their businesses.
Throughout the year we have run projects encouraging and supporting employee Through the enhancements we have been mentoring and volunteering.
making to our centres, in terms of the retail and leisure mix, our world class customer Our people service and our digital platform, we are I would like to record my thanks to the well placed to deliver a favourable trading Board and, with my fellow Directors, our environment for retailers.
thanks to all our staff for their commitment and dedication to intus values and vision in We will continue to build our business in the year.
Spain, driving our developments there In 2014 we forward to replicate our successful have positioned The creation of intu Retail Services in UK model.
2013 has led to a greater sense of unity ourselves to within the Group and in 2014 we have not We remain focused on delivering strong take full advantage neglected to ensure that all our staff have returns over the medium term through the right skills and training for their roles.
rental growth in our existing assets, of the recovery in Through these endeavours we have seen a superior returns from our development the economy more motivated and committed workforce, pipeline and the increasing strength of with a dramatic reduction in staff who our brand.
leave within their first year of service.
Patrick Burgess Chairman I am glad to report that our approach was 27 February 2015 recognised when we received the Premises & Facilities Management Partner in Retail Facilities award this year.
We are the only shopping centre business to be accredited by the Institute of Customer Service.
7 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
