Strategic report c HairMans stateMent overall, this is testament to the management the achievements of the year are all the more reflecting upon my first full teams commitment to operational excellence notable given they have been delivered by year as chairman, it is notable and delivery of total shareholder returns.
a very small team in ftse 100 terms of just over 240 employees.
With a rigorous focus how active British land has Underlying pre-tax profit of 297 million was on operational efficiencies, British land is up 8.4% reflecting the successful investment been: two major acquisitions, comprised of a small, but highly-effective team of our equity placing proceeds, rents from a new joint venture partner at of industry experts.
as part of our commitment recently completed developments and higher to our employees, we have continued to invest Broadgate, a substantial new like-for-like rental growth.
the value of our in training our staff to hone their skills and portfolio now stands at 12.0 billion and naV retail opening, and a significant develop their careers.
i would like to take this is up to 688 pence per share.
the Board opportunity to thank the team for their hard new landmark on the london has recommended a fourth quarter dividend work during the year.
of 6.75 pence per share making a total of skyline, to name just a few 27.0 pence per share for the year, an increase the importance of good corporate governance of the highlights of the past of 2.3% over the prior year.
for 2014 15 we are cannot be understated.
as a Board, we focus proposing a dividend increase of 2.5%.
the continually on enhancing our effectiveness 12 months.
this was achieved combination of naV growth and dividend gives as well as embracing the changes to the UK while continuing to deliver a total accounting return of 20.0%.
corporate governance code and the changes strong operational performance to it that have come into force during the year.
over the past four years, the management and maintaining a robust team has been reshaping our business and in september richard Pym stood down as the strong results we reported this year are non-executive Director and chairman of the balance sheet.
evidence of this strategic direction.
We appointed tim score greater weighting to london and the south to the Board in March as a non-executive east, and importantly, within london, we are Director and chairman of the audit committee.
well positioned with more assets in the West His experience and insights, given his role end and up-and-coming areas.
as the retail as cfo of a leading ftse 100 company, environment continues to evolve, we have been will further strengthen the expertise and investing in and future proofing our own retail composition of the Board.
i would like to thank portfolio to better reflect the way people shop.
aubrey adams for his role as chairman of 20.0% finally, we completed eight developments the companys audit committee during the in the last 12 months and have been active interim period and the extremely valuable tOtal accOunting return in replenishing the pipeline with a combination contribution he made.
of new and existing assets that offer further developments in our governance significant potential.
688p 15.4% structure during the year included the ePra net value Per sHare strategically during the period we invested the establishment of a new management proceeds of our equity placing carefully, but committee, the operations committee, ahead of plan.
We bolstered our development which has been formed to improve the 27.0p 2.3% portfolio which will provide the business with flow of information between the executive opportunities out into the medium term.
committee and the wider company and dividend Per sHare improve the quality of strategic and tactical our acquisition of Paddington central in decisions that are made.
July, to me, encapsulates all the qualities of British land.
this was a complex transaction, our business does not operate in isolation: with multiple vendors and issues to resolve.
our performance is underpinned by strong British lands ability to rapidly understand and relationships with our occupiers, partners, address them, combined with our significant suppliers, employees and the communities financing resources, meant we were able in which we operate.
our occupiers are some to acquire a very attractive asset at a highly of the best businesses globally with whom we competitive price.
it is the combination of skill work closely to understand their requirements and scale that allows British land to extract and create places they, their employees and significant value from opportunities that customers want to use.
our partners are some very few others could.
With our strong asset of the most respected investors and retailers.
management experience, in particular that Partnerships with the likes of norges Bank developed at regents Place and Broadgate, and gic further enable us to make the most we are confident in our ability to add further of significant, large-scale opportunities.
value by creating an attractive environment in which people want to work, live and shop.
com investors chief executives review P1013 chairmans governance review P6061 8 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 strategic rePort Managing our social, environmental and economic impacts is central to how we do business, adding value to our assets and delivering value to our shareholders.
all members of our executive committee have a corporate responsibility target linked to their variable remuneration.
We continue our efforts to improve understanding of how social and environmental factors add value.
We are working with the Princes accounting for sustainability Project to put sustainability at the heart of business decision making, strategy and reporting.
our latest research highlights the social benefits and commercial results of our 30-year involvement at regents Place, and our partnership with the local community and camden council.
as we emerge from the shadow of global recession, we remain confident for the prospects for the business in our chosen markets and locations.
against an improving economic backdrop, British land is well positioned for the future with a highly attractive portfolio of assets: extensive and resilient financing capacity and a highly-motivated and committed team of experts.
i look towards the coming year as we continue to build upon our successes.
John gildersleeve non-executive chairman The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
