CORPORATE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE REPORT Your Board 62 Your Boards year 64 Nomination Committee Report 68 Audit Committee Report 71 Directors Remuneration Report 75 Compliance with the UK SUPPORTING THE Corporate Governance Code 94 Board biographies 98 GROUPS STRATEGY Directors Report 100 David Tyler Chairman My objective as Chairman is to help ensure the Board creates maximum value for shareholders over the long term.
We do our best to balance opportunity against risk and to lead the organisation in an ethical way.
This Corporate Governance Report is intended to give an insight into how the Board operated in 2014 to achieve these aims.
Full details of the Companys governance arrangements in compliance with the Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code are included on pages 94 to 97.
As you will have read in the Chief Executives Report on pages 4 to 6, 2014 has been a year in which the business has achieved strong returns and is well placed to continue to deliver its strategic goals.
The year has seen economic and consumer COMPLIANCE STATEMENT recovery gather momentum which has helped stimulate improved sales in our shopping centres and retail parks.
Our The Company complied newly created VIA Outlets investment will provide exciting in full with the provisions of opportunities for Hammerson.
Our investment in this sector the UK Corporate Governance is a key differentiator of our business.
Last year I said that I was Code published in September particularly struck by the capabilities of the management team 2012, which applied and their energy and vision and one year on I remain impressed.
throughout the financial year I want to thank them and indeed all our people for delivering ended 31 December 2014. a strong performance in the year.
60 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT I am delighted to welcome Pierre Bouchut, who was appointed to the An effective Board Board on 13 February 2015 and a report on the recruitment process is As Chairman I am responsible for ensuring that your Board works described in the Nomination Committee report on page 70.
His strong effectively under my leadership in support of the Groups strategy.
financial expertise combined with an in-depth knowledge and In last years Annual Report I reported on my intention to change the experience of the retail industry in an international environment structure and frequency of Board and Committee meetings during complement the skills of the Board.
Board agendas have been revised and some items moved to the agendas of the Committees in order to enable the Board to spend In light of Anthony Watsons decision to stand down from the Board more time discussing investment, marketing and development.
Senior in April 2015, the Nomination Committee considered possible executives have met with Non-Executive Directors both formally and successors to the role of Senior Independent Director in consultation informally to discuss specific projects.
The Board has evaluated the new with all the Board and the Company Secretary.
I am delighted that approach and I can report that the Directors are satisfied with the way Terry Duddy has agreed to accept the role and he will be appointed the Board is operating.
Further detail on this years internal evaluation with effect from 22 April 2015.
He has both the right personal of Board effectiveness can be found on page 67 of the Corporate qualities and deep commercial and shareholder relations experience, Governance Report.
culminating in his years as Chief Executive of Home Retail Group.
One of the recommendations from the 2013 external Board It is my responsibility to ensure that Board members have effectiveness review was to introduce an electronic board paper independence of mind and action and that the Board as a whole portal as a more efficient, secure and sustainable way of disseminating has an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience Board papers.
A project to explore suitable software was managed and background.
This has been in my mind as the changes noted by the Company Secretary and her team.
Following an evaluation above have taken place.
Further changes to the Board will continue exercise, a provider was chosen and the software implemented.
to reflect these points as well as the long-term demands of the It is now being used for the Board and all Committees and feedback business as it develops in the coming years.
from Directors indicates that it has been received very positively.
Changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code Board changes and succession planning The Board and I remain committed to following best practice in Since my last report to you a number of changes have happened corporate governance.
I am pleased to report that the Company to the Board and its Committees.
After the Annual General Meeting complied fully with the Code in 2014.
Following the publication AGM in 2014 we said goodbye to John Hirst at which point Jacques by the Financial Reporting Council of a revised edition of the UK Espinasse took on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance Code in September 2014, we have already Gwyn Burr assumed the role of Chairman of the Remuneration taken steps to comply with the updated requirements.
We plan Committee after the AGM, having been appointed to that Committee to comply fully with these requirements in 2015. in February 2014.
Anthony Watson will be stepping down at the conclusion of this years AGM, after nine years on the Board.
On behalf of the Board David Tyler I would like to thank Anthony for his commitment to the Company Chairman and the valuable and significant contribution he has made as a Non-Executive Director.
Anthony has been a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees and was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from January 2006 to April 2014.
He has held the role of Senior Independent Director since January 2010.
I would also like to add my personal thanks to Anthony for the significant role he has played in ensuring that the Board meets its responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders in these roles.
Jacques Espinasse will have served on the Board for nine years in 2016 and has indicated his intention to step down from the Board at the AGM in 2016.
In July, we decided that all Non-Executive Directors would become members of the Nomination Committee and so membership increased by three.
The Nomination Committee report can be found on pages 68 to 70. www.
