HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 6 Chairmans Review Chairmans Review I am pleased to present the results for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the Companys Strategic Report.
Hansteens aim is to provide investors with consistent, high and realised returns from predominantly industrial property.
2014 has been a year in which all elements of our business model have excelled and I am delighted to report record results in terms of pro ts and value growth, re#ected in an increased interim dividend together with a special dividend.
RESULTS DIVIDEND Normalised Total Pro t for the year to 31 Hansteen has paid a covered dividend every December 2014 increased by 41.0% to 65.3 year since the first dividend distribution in million 2013: 46.3 million.
Normalised 2006 and during that period, it has increased Income Pro t, which excludes pro ts or losses by 66.7%.
Our dividend policy is designed from the sale of properties essentially the to re#ect the high income generated by the repeatable earnings of the business, increased business and we remain committed to a by 22.3% to 48.2 million 2013: 39.4 million.
The Normalised Income Pro t per share increased Board already increased the interim dividend by 14.5% to 7.1p 2012: 6.2p.
Had it not been paid on 20 November 2014 by 5.3% to 2.0p per for the fall in the value of the Euro compared share November 2013: 1.9p per share and will with 31 December 2013, Normalised Total Pro t pay the second ongoing dividend, increased for 2014 would have been 1.9 million higher.
by 3.4% to 3.0p per share May 2013: 2.9p bringing the total dividend for the year to 5.0p, Basic earnings per share were 17.6p 2013: a 4.2% increase on 2013.
9.1p and diluted EPRA earnings per share were 65.3m 5.2p 2013: 5.0p.
Pro t before tax increased by 100.9% to 131.2 million 2013: 65.3 million.
In 2014, Hansteen took advantage of a strong Normalised Total The Groups EPRA Net Asset Value was 102p investment market to sell 315.3 million profit increased by per share 2013: 91p, an increase of 12.1% of property from the owned or co-owned 41.0% despite the adverse currency movement.
portfolio, crystallising pro ts of 26.1 million over the 31 December 2013 valuation and 47.7 million over gross acquisition cost.
The Board ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 7 Chairmans Review proposes to re#ect this success in the payment Continental Europe.
We work hard at creating the right relationships with our stakeholders so of a special dividend of 3.0p per share, which will be paid in addition to the ongoing interim that we are in the prime position to act when opportunities arise.
dividend also of 3.0p per share.
The total dividend of 6.0p will be payable on 21 BOARD CHANGES May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the Stephen Gee retired as a Non-Executive close of business on 24 April 2015.
A Property Director of the Company at the Annual General Income Distribution of 1.4p is included in this 5.0p Meeting in 2014 and Richard Mully will retire as second interim dividend payment.
a Non-Executive Director of the Company at the Full year dividend Annual General Meeting on 8 June 2015.
4.2% increase OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY As part of the process of succession planning on 2013 Hansteen is a leading owner and asset for Non-Executive Directors, Melvyn Egglenton manager of a very diverse portfolio of European and Rebecca Worthington were welcomed industrial property, mainly located in Germany, to the Board on 10 June 2014.
Melvyn and the UK and the Netherlands.
We look for Rebecca were also appointed as members investments that are priced attractively and of both the Audit Committee and the which will create a sustainable and high-yielding Remuneration Committee, effective from the industrial property portfolio.
other more opportunistic and management Richard Mully will retire from the Board at the intensive acquisitions which, although lower Annual General Meeting in June 2015.
I would yielding, will provide greater potential for capital like to take this opportunity to thank Richard growth.
Our strategy is achieved through a Mully for his substantial contribution and detailed assessment of opportunities in the commitment to Hansteens growth and success UK and Continental Europe.
In many cases over the past nine years.
His knowledge and our purchases are off market and can involve experience of continental property markets has patiently assembling or reconciling stakeholder been exceptionally valuable to the Board.
Our acquisition of the HBI portfolio in the Netherlands is a good example 15 FOUNDER LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP of this.
ofces with The LTIP is based on the growth of EPRA NAV After purchase, our strategy is to maximise the experienced plus dividends, which was put in place for the rental income and occupancy of our properties management Joint Chief Executives at the time of the initial through active asset management initiatives teams #oatation in 2005 and which has not paid out leading to increased values.
However, if the current performance and distribute these pro ts to our shareholders continues until the end of 2015, the joint Chief over the course of a property cycle either by Executives will receive a signi cant reward.
sales of individual lots or by larger portfolio Details are set out below in the finance report.
The potential award can only be estimated at this stage and is dependent on the performance Our people are at the centre of our success.
We over this three year period.
have 15 of ces with experienced management teams across the UK and our regions in HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 8 Chairmans Review Improvements in both the occupational and investor markets across all three of our core regions have enabled the business to produce another year of record results Our optimism for the future must however be OUTLOOK tempered by the current uncertainties in the Further improvements in both the occupational euro zone and the potential for the volatility of and investor markets across all three of our the Euro.
core regions have enabled the business to produce another year of record results.
We At the time of our last half year results we have sold a signi cant amount of property into highlighted that the then current interest rate a very buoyant UK investment market releasing environment was extraordinarily low.
Since capital and allowing Hansteen to make some then rates have approximately halved and noteworthy acquisitions.
These acquisitions, there is a general acknowledgement that these having a high initial yield and a material vacant rates are likely to stay low for longer than element, t our business model perfectly.
Such a background to the operation of a high yielding property Hansteen has a very diverse, high yielding business is outside the experience of most portfolio of light industrial property located people working today but the likelihood must across Germany, the UK and Benelux.
The be that it will provide scope for continued income from the Groups portfolio has proved yield compression and further liquidity in the robust throughout the recession years and property sector.
should continue to be so in the future.
Our asset management teams have proved adept at improving occupancy and the rent roll and also at realising opportunities.
Business con dence and the underlying economy are improving in each of our regions providing an improving backdrop to our business.
However, these levers for growth have now been supported and in some areas outstripped by the extraordinarily low interest rate environment within which we James Hambro are operating and, more recently the weight of capital buying property for yield.
