Strategic report Redefine International is committed to a culture Corporate social of openness in which responsibility continued legitimate concerns can be reported without fear of penalty or punishment.
UK Retail: Redefine Internationals shopping centres Tenants promote good H&S practice to its staff, contractors, Policy tenants and customers.
All have an excellent record in The Company aims to be a considerate and receptive this field.
All H&S policies and procedures are reviewed landlord ensuring our tenants are given clear and adequate annually by an independent specialist together with the lines for reporting.
All complaints or suggestions are given onsite staff under the direction of Redefine International.
The centre management teams ensure that the H&S management systems are consistent and practical at all Performance levels and, above all, comply with H&S legislation.
UK Commercial: Redefine International continuously Active policies and legislative compliance: strives to improve communication with its tenants and works with them to try and reduce their carbon footprint.
H&S policy: Tenants are encouraged to give feedback which is annual H&S audits: monitored, considered and if appropriate, acted upon.
emergency and disaster plan: UK Retail: Redefine Internationals shopping centres fire safety reviews and spot checks carried out by the arrange regular meetings with tenants.
The management local fire service: and team at each site is tasked with liaising with each tenant police reviews and advice on an ad hoc basis.
on a monthly basis with a view to analysing the overall sales turnover information and providing feedback and Community advice as required.
Policy Health and safety H&S Redefine International is mindful of its wider role in the Policy community and should endeavour to engage with the local community in which it operates.
H&S is the responsibility of the Board, with any concerns being reported to Directors on a quarterly basis or as Performance appropriate.
UK Retail: all of the shopping centres are community Redefine International is committed to complying with all based with links to local schools, colleges, charities and Health and Safety legislation and regulations, maintaining local authorities.
For example: a safe place of work for our tenants and our contractors, Birchwood Shopping Centre has a long and proud customers and employees within the Group.
association with the childrens charity, Brainwave, Performance sponsoring events that have raised over 30,000 for the charity in 2014: and UK Commercial: for the majority of the portfolio, H&S is the responsibility of each of the tenants.
For the Weston Favell Shopping Centre has recently allowed remaining properties, the managing agents undertake one of its units to be turned into a film set by a the responsibilities in respect of H&S under the direction grantfunded community workshop scheme.
Assessment of the competency of the project has become known as The Movie Hub and managing agent is undertaken before their appointment will enable local young people to work with movie and monitoring of the agents is undertaken by way of professionals on the preproduction of a film called quarterly reviews of the portfolio.
Fortune Cookies, which is due to be screened in UKcinemas.
Where there are multilet properties which have communal areas requiring management, the appointed SA Community: as a Company with a secondary listing managing agent is responsible for ensuring all necessary on the JSE, the Company has also sought to assist audits and risk assessments are undertaken.
The South African communities and has set up links with managing agent is responsible for ensuring any matters Buskaid, a South African and UK based charity which raised during the assessments are undertaken and where develops musical talent in disadvantaged children appropriate these are reported through to Redefine from Soweto.
Tothis end, the Company sponsored International.
the Buskaid Soweto String Ensembles UK tour 2014, which performed five concerts in the UK, culminating at the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London.
At each event, Buskaid played to full halls delighting audiences with classical pieces, pop songs and township jives earning standingovations.
Redefine International P. L. C. 36 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report All allegations should be made in good faith and be reported anonymously via the whistleblowing procedure.
Environment and sustainability Whistleblowing Policy Policy The Company is committed to sustainability and protecting Redefine International is committed to a culture of openness the environment for future generations.
Tenants, customers, in which legitimate concerns can be reported without fear contractors and employees within the Group are encouraged of penalty or punishment.
Incidents involving the following to consider and promote energy efficient practices and to should be reported: a criminal offence, miscarriage of recycle and use sustainable products where possible.
justice, failure to comply with a legal obligation, failure to comply with Redefine Internationals regulations, danger Performance to health or safety, damage to the environment, financial Redefine International promotes recycling and energy malpractice, bribery and actions likely to harm the reputation efficiency throughout each of its sectors.
Energy efficiency: Grand Arcade Shopping Centre in Concealment of any of these reportable issues should Wigan was the first carbon neutral shopping centre in the also be disclosed.
All allegations should be made in good country with no mall heating or cooling and has a green faith and be reported anonymously via the whistleblowing roof.
It is also a Gold Award Winner of the Environmental procedure.
Any misconduct or malpractice within the Business Pledge.
workplace is taken extremely seriously.
Any knowingly false or malicious allegations will result in actions against the A phased policy of switching to LED lighting has been individual making them.
The principles and procedure are in undertaken across the UK Retail portfolios.
This has led line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 PIDA and to an approximate 50% reduction of power consumption apply to all contractors of Redefine International.
with the associated lowering of carbon emissions.
The full Redefine International Whistleblowing policy and Sustainability: Redefine International has a number procedure is available on the Companys website.
of successful recycling schemes operating across the portfolio.
At Birchwood Shopping Centre in Cheshire, Performance 53% of all waste collected is recycled by our centre staff During the past year there were no whistleblowing and 85% of the remaining waste is recycled by our waste reportsreceived.
contractor, resulting in as much diversion from landfill aspossible.
Redefine International P. L. C. 37 Annual Report 2014
