OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 Overview Chairmans Statement DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We have continued to deliver on the strategy adopted three years ago to reposition SEGROs portfolio.
We have also accelerated our growth strategy through increased investment in our development pipeline and greater accretive acquisition activity.
The investment market for industrial and logistics assets Looking ahead, the structural drivers of demand for was strong across the UK and Continental Europe in 2014, our products, combined with an improving economic despite the varying economic performances in our core situation, particularly in the UK, and accommodative markets.
In the prevailing low interest rate environment, monetary policy across all our markets, are likely to industrial property yields are attractive, enhanced by remainsupportive of healthy property returns, even if improving occupier demand and structural changes in the notquite at the same very strong level of 2014. nature of retailing towards e-commerce and convenience Three years into our strategic repositioning programme, shopping, which are starting to be reflected in rental we have made progress faster than we expected when growth in some of our market.
Successful and timely delivery of Tightening yields, development and asset management the strategy is a key objective for every one of the Groups gains, and improving rental values were the main drivers employees, with their short and long term remuneration behind the 12.3 per cent increase in the value of our dependent on its success.
As a result, our EPRA net asset value per share The Board is grateful to all our employees for their hard increased to 384 pence 2013: 312 pence.
work in delivering these results and for the continuing A key priority of the strategy was to re-position the support of the Groups customers, shareholders and portfolio, disposing of assets which no longer fitted our other stakeholders.
objectives or met our return requirements.
We sold 483 million of such assets during the year and, as a Dividend result, this element of the strategy is substantially complete.
The Board has assessed the results for 2014 and the outlook for earnings in the medium term.
It has concluded The proceeds have helped to fund an accelerated that it is appropriate to recommend an increase in the development programme and the acquisition of big box final dividend per share of 0.3 pence to 10.2 pence warehouses in our core markets both on our own behalf 2013: 9.9 pence which will be paid as a Property Income and within the SEGRO European Logistics Partnership Distribution.
On this basis, the total dividend for the year SELP joint venture.
will be 15.1 pence, a rise of 2 per cent on 2013 14.8 These actions have improved the quality of our portfolio.
The final dividend will be paid on 8 May 2015 to They have also strengthened our capital structure: our loan shareholders on the register at the close of business on to value ratio including our share of debt in joint ventures 27 March 2015. has fallen to 40 per cent, in line with our long term target The Board has decided to recommend the re-introduction level, assisted by an increase in the valueof our assets.
of a scrip dividend option for the 2014 final dividend, Our investment activity will remain disciplined and is likely allowing shareholders to choose whether to receive the to favour development including replenishment of the dividend in cash or new shares.
As a consequence, the land bank, although we will continue to seek attractive Dividend Reinvestment Plan will be suspended.
There are acquisitions in our core markets while also investigating more details on page 155 of this Report.
opportunities to expand our geographic footprint in Continental Europes major logistics markets.
Board Changes As expected, our EPRA earnings per share were impacted I would like to welcome Martin Moore to the Board, who by disposal activity, particularly by those transactions joined as an Independent Non-Executive Director in completed late in 2013, falling by 3 per cent to 17.2 pence.
Behind the headline decline was a marked improvement in our operating metrics, in particular the portfolio vacancy rate which fell to 6.3 per cent, an increase in like-for-like NIGEL RICH CBE net rental income of 2.4 per cent and new income starting Chairman to be generated from completed developments.
