40 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Dear Shareholder Earlier in this Annual Report, Robert Noel reported a strong set of results driven by high levels of development activity and relentless asset management.
We have a first rate management team in place at Land securities and i want to thank them for the hard work, dedication and good judgement they have shown throughout the year to make these results possible.
Land securities has a determination to meet the needs of its customers and to manage the business through the cyclical markets in which we operate.
All our actions are underpinned by good governance, controls and lessons from the past.
This year, management and the Board were kept busy on a range of issues.
New appointments were made at both Board and senior manager level.
We evolved our corporate reporting in response to new requirements.
our business is evolving to adapt to structural changes in the retail property market and a maturing London property cycle.
in this corporate governance report, we provide an insight into the work of the Board and its Committees over the last year and the governance framework operated by the Group.
Our governance letter From i am pleased to report that your Company has complied in full with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
the chairman At Land securities, governance is not just the adherence to a set of rules.
it is a way of doing business and is at the heart of everything we do.
once properly At Land securities, governance is not just the embedded, it becomes second nature.
This year, we give a flavour of what it means to us in a Governance in adherence to a set of rules.
it is a way of doing Action section which brings to life our approach.
business and is at the heart of everything we do.
if we do things in an open and transparent way, we will do them in the right way.
This belief has driven a number of the initiatives undertaken by the Company to improve the quality of our corporate, financial and remuneration reporting in recent years.
Reporting This year has seen the implementation of considerable change to the way in which companies are required to report.
We have taken an active interest in the development of these new regulations since their initial proposal.
We have provided input to the various consultations and broad support for the final regulations.
The changes will make the task of understanding annual reports much easier.
They should also enable investors to more accurately compare the performance of companies and also executive pay.
The Annual Report is an important part of our communication with shareholders.
The Board and its Committees have been keen to oversee the implementation of many of the changes and have devoted more agenda time to the content and form of our Annual Report.
our early involvement in the development of the new regulations meant that we were able to adopt many of the new requirements in previous years, so much of our report will be broadly familiar to you.
This year we have enhanced the sections describing our strategy and our business model.
The Board has refreshed its processes for reviewing the accuracy, balance and clarity of the whole Annual strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 41 Report.
much of the work was carried out by the continue to carefully monitor and review their Company of its peers in terms of total shareholder Audit Committee, which held two additional independence.
return and the financial performance of its portfolio.
meetings to establish the process and review the Rewards target relative not absolute returns.
Absolute New Board and senior management content.
We describe the process on page 53. returns could simply be generated by general upward appointments We have developed our remuneration report in movements in the value of commercial property.
The retirements from the Board have given us the recent years in order to adopt early the majority of Relative returns target outperformance against opportunity to bring in new faces with different the new requirements that have become mandatory returns generated by other professional investors.
skills and perspectives that will enable your Board this year.
The changes have been well received by This was illustrated this year where our valuation to face the challenges of a changing business shareholders and investor bodies.
surplus was much higher than that of last year, environment ahead.
our corporate responsibility reporting is now fully although our incentives paid out less.
This was because During the Non-executive recruitment process we integrated within our strategic Report.
This reflects the relative performance of the Companys property were presented with two outstanding candidates the central role corporate responsibility plays in portfolio against its industry benchmark was not as who were very keen to join our Board.
our original connecting the business to its stakeholders.
strong as in the preceding year.
You will find a detailed plan was to recruit just one more Non-executive.
The i would like to thank the chairmen and members breakdown of our remuneration arrangements and the Nominations Committee saw this as a particularly of the Audit and Remuneration Committees for the outcomes for this year in the Remuneration report.
good problem to have, in an exceptionally difficult additional time they have devoted to our reporting market for talent and decided to appoint them both.
The appointment of Cressida Hogg CBE means i enjoy meeting investors and hearing their views Diversity that we have met our target to have women comprise on our Company.
Diversity is very important to me and critical to the at least 25% of our Board a year ahead of schedule.
This year, the Board commissioned a study by future of corporate Britain.
in my view, it makes she and Edward Bonham Carter will make leading equity analysts, makinson Cowell, on investor business more effective and society more equitable.
exceptional additions to our Board.
We describe the views of our Company.
Their findings were presented This year has seen good progress amongst process undertaken for their appointments in the to the Board and discussed extensively.
We include FTsE 100 companies in their drive to improve gender report of the Nominations Committee.
their findings in our report on Board effectiveness.
many more companies, including Land There have been significant new appointments i will be embarking on a series of individual securities, have now met Lord Davies target of having below the Board too.
meetings with our larger investors during the course 25% of their boards comprise of women.
Another Colette oshea and scott Parsons have been of this year in order to obtain their views on the FTsE 100 company, shire plc, will be chaired by a appointed as the new managing directors for our strategy and governance of our Company and our woman.
Things are heading in the right direction, London and Retail portfolios, respectively.
though there remains some way to go.
an expanded Group Executive Committee, which has our investor section on page 57 gives a flavour of i am pleased to report that Land securities been given new terms of reference and a wider remit our extensive engagement with our institutional and own long-term commitment to gender diversity for the oversight of the Company and its operations.
private shareholders and debt investors.
is bearing fruit with significant increases in female These appointments were made following a Risk membership of the Board and our three principal search process involving internal and external As we move through the property cycle, the Board executive operating committees.
i was delighted that not only were these is conscious of the changing profile of internal and posts filled by internal candidates, the people filling Retirements from the Board external risks across the business.
Both the Board and their previous roles were also appointed internally.
The year has seen David Rough, sir stuart Rose and the Audit Committee are alive to the effect of the our success with these promotions comes from Richard Akers announce their retirements from the market cycle and have devoted more time to our long standing commitment to developing people Board.
David and sir stuart have served on our Board considering risks over the last 12 months.
We are keen to keep the with distinction for 12 and We have increased our focus on monitoring pipeline full and are 10 years respectively.
developments and market activity, watching for signs introducing a number of They have helped guide of change and added the topic to the agenda for three new initiatives.
many of the Company through one meetings per year.
these are focused around of the most challenging The Board also monitors changing consumer developing leadership periods in its history and trends which will continue to have a significant skills at all levels, helped it prepare for the impact on our Retail business.
if we do things in an promoted through recovery.
our focus on these topics has helped shape courses, mentoring and open and transparent way, After nearly 20 years our strategy and our medium-term planning.
You can read with Land securities, The discussions formed the basis of the Groups we will do them in the more about these Richard Akers also stepped budget and forecast for the next five years.
initiatives in our People right way.
down from the Board on Amongst the emerging risks considered by the section on page 36. our which he has served for business are cyber security and energy security.
The aim is for Land securities eight years.
Audit Committee has considered the Groups to be a demanding but i would like to thank all of them for their significant response to both threats.
enjoyable and rewarding place to work.
contributions to Land securities and wish them well over the following pages we describe our for the future.
Remuneration corporate governance framework in more detail Real estate is a business based on decisions made We monitor shareholder guidance and developments and include case studies which illustrate our for the long term.
Plans put in place today may only in the area closely and constantly review how we governance in action.
You will find specific details of reach fruition many years later.
The Board recognises might improve our arrangements.
our corporate responsibility activity in our corporate the value that Directors who are able to serve for The Remuneration Committee responded responsibility report found on our website many years are able to bring and i have encouraged to shareholder requests by simplifying our www.
i hope you Directors to serve for extended periods, including remuneration packages and aligning them more will find both reports helpful in understanding our David and sir stuart.
on occasion, this may mean closely with our Key Performance indicators.
commitment to our stakeholders and to excellence that some serve for more than the nine year period The changes formed a new framework approved in governance.
where some investors begin to query their by shareholders in 2012. independence.
Where a Non-executive Director The framework is heavily geared towards Dame Alison Carnwath serves for more than this time we will of course incentives which reward outperformance by the Chairman
