Strategic report chairmans statement EPRA NAV PER SHARE EPRA EARNINGS DIVIDEND PER SHARE 7.13 32.6m 13.1p 25.7% 7.9% 4.8% i am pleased to report another busy and Net asset value and portfoliovaluation successful year.
growth At 30 September 2014, our portfolio was valued at 2.6 billion.
Our proven strategy of creating lively, This represents a like-for-like increase in values over the year of prosperous and desirable destinations in the 21%, which has increased EPRA net asset value per share by 1.46 from 5.67 to 7.13 at the year end.
After adding back West End continues to attract broad-based dividends received by shareholders, this represents a and growing demand for spaceacross our NAVreturn of 28% over the year.
This is reflected in growth in our The significant uplift in the valuation of our property portfolio this current and prospective rental income and year reflects clear market evidence of the strong and sustained consequent uplifts in value.
demand for all types of accommodation.
Our valuers have reported a noticeable reduction in yields investors pay to acquire assets This year we have secured important in Central London, and particularly the West End.
This strong strategic additions to our portfolio and investor appetite reflects confidence in the long-term security and growth prospects of assets in locations such as ours, together have added to our financial resources with with expectations that interest rates will remain low for the additional equity and new long-term debt foreseeable future, and the greater availability of investment arrangements.
DTZ, independent valuers of our wholly-owned portfolio, continue to advise us that in their view some prospective purchasers, recognising the exceptional features, qualities and prospects of this unique portfolio, may consider a combination of some or all parts of the portfolio to have a greater value than currently reflected in their valuation, which has been prepared in accordance with RICSguidelines.
EPRA earnings and dividends EPRA earnings for the year ended 30 September 2014 amounted to 32.6 million, compared with 30.2 million in the previous year.
Growth in rental income has been the main component of this increase, through a combination of acquisitions, like-forlike increase inrents of 6.3%, and the successful completion and letting of a number ofschemes, which last year tempered growth in net property income.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 6.6p, bringing the total dividends for the year to 13.1p, an increase in the rate per share of 4.8%.
The total distribution in respect of the year ended 30 September 2014 will amount to 36.4 million.
The increase over the total amount distributed in respect of the previous year of 31.6 million reflects the higher dividend per share and the increased number of shares now in issue.
co. uk annual report 2014 Chairmans statement continued Portfolio activity corporate Governance and Responsibility Activity across the portfolio continues apace.
This year we have We are committed to the principles of good corporate governance worked on a wide variety of refurbishment schemes, extending to and responsibility throughout our business.
around 9% of our floor space, which are improving the quality of In February 2014 Jill Little became our Senior Independent Director, accommodation we are able to offer.
Over 25 million of leasing and Dermot Mathias and Sally Walden took over as chairs of the and rent review transactions were completed during the year, Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively.
This years equating to around 20% of ERV.
 review of the Boards performance concluded Each of our many schemes 50 in 2014 and transactions contribute that it is working well and cohesively, and is playing an important to the growth in our income, as well as frequently delivering benefits role in supporting the executive team and the evolution of chairmans statement compounded across our adjacent ownerships.
identify and advance further asset management opportunities We are responding to the challenges of improving environmental across our portfolio.
performance and sustainability throughout our portfolio and we Acquisitions this year, which totalled 107.9 million, included are increasing our commitments to the many initiatives we two significant strategic purchases Newport Sandringham in support across the community in which we invest and work.
Chinatown and 57-59 Broadwick Street formerly known as Jaeger House in Carnaby.
Plans are in hand to carry out major Our team refurbishment and reconfiguration schemes to materially improve The continual evolution of our strategy, and our long and their current low net income.
Subject to the necessary consents, consistent record of creating and delivering value to shareholders, we expect both schemes will commence in 2016. owes much to our experienced, innovative and committed team of just 23 staff.
They, in turn, are supported by a range of professional Finance advisors, across a variety of disciplines, who share our long-term In March 2014, we added to our equity base with a share placing commitment and passion for our business.
of 9.99% of our issued share capital at 6.20, which raised after expenses 153.2 million.
This additional capital is being deployed Looking ahead to fund both acquisitions and our accelerating capital expenditure Increasingly unsettled political and economic sentiment across programme.
Also this year we have completed the refinancing of many parts of the world is highlighting Londons unrivalled 225 million of bank debt which was due to expire in 2016, securing advantages, stability and prospects.
This exceptional global city new long-term debt and terminating long-dated interest rate continues to attract domestic and international investment, swaps with a notional principal of 110 million.
In the year ahead businesses and visitors on an unmatched scale, supporting a we expect to refinance the remaining 150 million of debt due to buoyant and dynamic economy.
expire in September 2016 in a similar manner.
Our portfolio, in the heart of the West End, is uniquely well-placed The steps we are taking ensure our business continues to be to benefit from Londons continuing success and prospects.
Our supported by robust finances, a strong cash flow and modest proven strategy continues to adapt and evolve under our gearing.
Activity levels across the portfolio are accelerating to capitalise on the strong and sustained demand for accommodation in our locations.
Against this background I am confident we shall continue our long record of delivering rising income, dividends and capital returns for our shareholders.
Jonathan Lane Chairman 27 November 2014 #006 Strategic report The WOrKIng pOpulaTIOn WIThIn WesTMInsTer Is 6OO, OOO 1 In 50 WOrKers In england #007 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 Unique real estate portfolio totalling 14 acres in the heart of Londons West End currently valued at 2.6 billion Long history of demand exceeding supply of retail, restaurant and leisure space 1.7m sq.
ft. of commercial and residential Shopping and leisure are important elements of the local accommodation wholly-owned economy.
In the West End, there is a long history of occupier portfolio demand exceeding the availability of these uses, which is often restricted by planning policies.
Holdings clustered in villages in iconic The wholly-owned portfolio extends to 1.7 million sq.
ft. of areas, close to the West Ends world-class commercial and residential space.
Typically, the lower floors of visitor attractions our buildings contain retail, restaurants, cafs and pubs: these are our most valuable uses and provide 72% of our current Focused on shops, restaurants, cafs and income.
Upper floors are either offices, residential or a pubs uses with a long history of demand combination of both.
exceeding supply in the West End The Longmartin joint venture owns 269,000 sq.
Retail, restaurants, cafs and bars provide 51% concentration of assets allows us to of its current income.
adopt a comprehensive management see focus on retail, restaurants and leisure on page 14 strategy for each village our initiatives bring compound benefits to our nearby Proven management strategies produce ownerships cumulative and compound benefits The concentration of our ownership in the West End is unique in Exceptional transport links all holdings a UK listed real estate company.
It allows us to adopt close to major underground stations and comprehensive management strategies to create and foster the new West End crossrail transport hubs distinctive, attractive and prosperous locations, where incremental improvements give compound benefits across our Including our 50% share of property held in joint venture adjacent ownerships.
These benefits include improving the quality of tenant mix, attracting higher footfall, and creating and maintaining strong occupational demand, which, together, Ownership clusters close to the principal establish higher rental tones.
attractions see pages 16 to 17 for more information on our proven, comprehensive management strategy Covering 14 acres, our wholly-owned portfolio is clustered in villages in iconic areas at the heart of the West End: Carnaby, Exceptional transport links Covent Garden, Chinatown, Soho and Charlotte Street.
The Longmartin joint venture, in which we have a 50% stake, owns Our villages have exceptional transport links, essential for a 1.9 acre island site in Covent Garden.
accessibility to the West End.
The six major underground stations closest to our villages handle some 233 million Largely assembled over the past 20 years, our growing portfolio passengers each year.
Also, all our properties are situated is located close to an unrivalled concentration of world-class within five to ten minutes walk of the new Tottenham Court heritage and cultural attractions.
Together with a wide variety of Road and Bond Street Crossrail transport hubs, which alone are shops, restaurants, cafs, bars and clubs, these attract large expected to handle 220 million passengers by 2026. numbers of visitors, businesses and residents, providing the see page 9 for more information on the impact of Crossrail foundation for strong footfall and prosperity for commercial tenants in our villages.
The areas in which we invest are long-established, with street patterns generally laid out between 1680 and 1720.
They are mostly designated as conservation areas, and some 20% of the buildings we own are listed.
As a consequence, the opportunity for large-scale redevelopment to increase the supply of new accommodation materially, particularly at lower-floor levels, islimited.
see London and the West End on page 9 #008 #008
