Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DRIVING VALUE Workspace has had another year of successful We continue to be mindful of the role we play in the growth, delivering a strong operational and financial communities in which our properties are based.
Our performance through our established strategy of driving buildings are our biggest environmental impact and rent, occupancy and asset value across our London we are committed to making the most of opportunities portfolio.
Not only are we benefiting from our focused to reduce energy use, benefiting the environment and refurbishment and redevelopment programme but we reducing energy costs.
Our 2014 Corporate Social have continued to strengthen the direct relationships Responsibility report outlines the progress we have we have with our customers by becoming an essential made against our 2013 targets and sets new targets partner, thus helping their businesses to grow faster.
Revenues and profits grew strongly during the year.
In a similar vein, we always try to ensure that when Group net rental income was 50.3m, an underlying refurbishing an existing property or progressing a increase of 9.6%, trading profit after interest was redevelopment we do so in a way that helps to act as a 20.5m, an increase of 14.5%, and EPRA NAV per catalyst in either boosting or regenerating the economy share was 4.96, an increase of 43% on 2013. of the local area.
Our aim is always a positive legacy.
We are proposing a final dividend of 7.09 pence per Jamie and the executive team work hard to grow the share a total of 10.63 pence for the year to be paid business for our customers, investors and employees on 1 August 2014, an increase of 10% on last year.
and they have been ably supported by our strong Workspaces proven long-term value generation and diversified Board.
Bernard Cragg retires from the is reflected in this progressive dividend stream.
Board in July and we thank him for his guidance and contribution to our growth over the last 11 years.
During the year we successfully completed a refinancing which gives us far greater operational Of course none of the growth or initiatives we have flexibility to execute our capital expenditure programme reported would be possible without the dedication to redevelop and refurbish existing assets and create and expertise of all our employees and I would like buildings that complement our strategy.
We also to thank them for another year of success.
made selective acquisitions where we see the opportunity to create added value by applying our We continue to execute a very consistent strategy operating model, accelerated our mixed-use planning in support of clear objectives and this years results applications and successfully disposed of a number show the benefit of that approach.
DANIEL KITCHEN NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Related information: Corporate Social Responsibility p. 22 Corporate governance p. 42
