Chairmans statement We are pleased to report that the group delivered a robust performance in 2013 14 and has made a good start to the new financial year.
We have grown profits during a period of major transition in the business as we begin to implement our new strategy for growth, including accelerating our investment in new markets and maintaining high levels of customer recruitment across our existing customer segments and brands.
We are encouraged by the early Operating profit was up by 4.7% to The mature female segment continued performance we are seeing in our 107.0m, after accounting for losses to improve with 3% growth in the year.
US business and with our programme of 6.2m 2013, 6.1m from the Revenue grew in all our major product of new store openings in the UK as investment in international trading categories as we continued to broaden part of the development of our multiand the Simply Be Jacamo stores.
The fastest growth came channel offering and we are confident Excluding the impact of fair value from our increasingly differentiated in the renewed growth from the actions adjustment to financial instruments, home offer where sales grew by we are taking in our core JD Williams profit before taxation was up 5.3% 12%, despite the reduced electrical business.
Including sales arising out of the credit policy we learned in the early stages of our these adjustments, profit before changes introduced in the second entry into the US market and resumed taxation was 97.3m 2013, 96.4m, half of the year.
This category is now a faster rate of expansion there during up 0.9%.
focused on our Famous Five ranges the second half of the year.
The roll-out which include bedding, home dcor, Adjusted earnings per share were of Simply Be Jacamo stores has also homewares, outdoor living and family down at 27.88p 2013, 28.15p, due gone well as we move towards our gifts, and accounts for 31% of group to a higher tax charge of 22.0% 2013, target of 25 stores nationally across revenue.
The board is proposing a final the UK.
We believe these new activities grew by 10% and 5% respectively.
dividend of 8.56 pence per share, can be significant growth drivers for the Ladieswear, which is a major part up 4.0% on last year, giving a total group in the medium term.
of our future growth strategy, and a dividend for the year of 14.23 pence Financial Results significant opportunity for the business up by 4.0%, and covered 1.96 times.
going forward, grew by 3% during m m Net borrowings at 1 March 2014 2014 2013 % the year.
increased to 213.7m 2013, 188.7m Revenue 834.9 784.7 6.4 The continued investment in our due to further investment in the Operating profit 107.0 102.2 4.7 websites has driven online penetration receivables book, which generates Adjusted profit to 58% of revenue.
Online remains our financial services revenue.
before taxation 100.1 95.1 5.3 our priority channel and 40% of our Statutory profit Net finance costs fell from 7.1m to sessions are now on mobile devices before taxation 97.3 96.4 0.9 6.9m, covered 15.5 times by operating marking a significant change in the Adjusted earnings profit.
Gearing has increased from 42% way our customers shop.
per share p 27.88 28.15 -1.0 to 44% on net assets which have risen As reported at the interim results, by 8.8% to 485.3m 2013, 446.0m.
Total group revenue increased by 6.4% we elected to pause our expansion to 834.9m and 6.3% on a like-for-like into the US market during the third Trading Highlights basis, excluding the non-comparable quarter.
We have now resumed a periods for newly opened stores.
During the year all of our consumer faster rate of customer recruitment Gross margin reduced by 0.3% for the facing segments performed in line with and we are applying what weve year as a whole despite a second half our expectations and we continued to learned so far to the next stage of improvement in overall margin which improve our customer service levels.
We have strengthened the came from the reduced bad debt ratio The focus on consumer segments has team, taken the decision to focus on of 7.5% of sales.
This was achieved enabled us to reinvigorate our offer and the Simply Be opportunity exclusively largely following the introduction of optimise more effectively our marketing and based on the strength of our new fraud elimination processes and investment.
The fastest growth was gross margin, begun to invest more in credit policy rule changes on high value seen within the male segment, which digital marketing, tailored ranges and electrical products, introduced in the grew by 13% and the younger female website and service developments.
The revenue for the full year grew by 21% to 10m and customer numbers 010 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 are up 28%.
Losses were up 1.7m to Board Composition accelerate growth by building on 4.7m as we continue to invest in this the core strengths of the group.
In July 2013 Angela Spindler joined key geography.
N Brown Group as Chief Executive Consequently the board remains and has already made a very positive During September 2013 we opened confident in the outlook for the contribution to the group.
Her vision two Simply Be Jacamo stores in Leeds business, and we believe that the for the future of the business was laid and Derby to bring our number of strategy in place will enable us to out in February this year and I am stores to nine, eight of which are dual achieve our expectations in the year delighted with the progress she has facia.
The like-for-like sales from these ahead and beyond.
I would like to made in such a short time in shaping stores were up 35% in the year, and thank all stakeholders in the business and pursuing the groups new they are now contributing positively to and in particular the staff for all of their strategy.
She is already driving the trading profit before central overheads.
hard work and dedication throughout many changes required to achieve It is our intention to roll-out a further the year.
seven stores by October this year, and we have already found a site on Oxford John McGuire retired in March 2014 Street, which opens in September.
having been a non-executive director These stores are helping to build brand since 2005, and Anna Ford will retire awareness and we believe are ahead from the board in July 2014 after of our competitors in terms of multi- 5 years service as a non-executive channel services offered in store.
I would like to thank them for They are responsible for an online their contribution to N Browns success Andrew Higginson halo sales benefit in the 45 minute over the years and wish them well for drive time radius around each store of the future.
7% and 3% for Simply Be and Jacamo respectively, compared to those areas Financial Reporting Calendar without a store.
We have reviewed our approach to In February 2014 we changed our financial reporting and consequently check-out processes across the made some changes in line with what business to make it easier for new is now best practice in the listed retail customers to pay by cash at the point sector.
Going forward, we will report of sale if they wished to do so.
Our our financial results in the normal way testing highlighted that we would and with similar timings to our current achieve additional sales and improve approach.
Additionally, we will issue cashflow from this initiative, and whilst pre-close trading updates at the end it is early in the process the signs of of each half year and also Interim success in this area are positive with Management statements covering 30% of new orderers to date on all the first and third quarters shortly channels completing their transaction after the end of those trading periods.
on a cash basis at higher gross One consequence of these changes margins.
Most of these orders relate is that we will cease the issue of to fashion items.
current trading statements covering short periods at our financial results In February we described our an approach which is now routine systems infrastructure development across our industry.
Consistent with programme, which is designed to this new approach, these results simplify our business and to create therefore do not include a current the foundations for our multi-national, trading statement.
Our first quarter multi-channel expansion plans.
We IMS will now be issued in June, have signed agreements with our some weeks earlier than previously.
chosen partners and have now moved on to the systems design phase.
It Outlook is likely that we will achieve some reporting benefits later in the current We are stepping up the pace of year, but the positive financial impacts change in the business in pursuit of on our growth will be seen in the year our strategic ambitions.
I am pleased ended 2016 and beyond.
to report that the team has made good early progress with the implementation of our plans to
