4 Chairmans Statement The Cineworld Group is now Europes second largest cinema chain.
By the end of the year the Group was operating 1,875 screens in 203 cinemas in nine different countries.
I am pleased to report that 2014 was Following the combination with Cinema It is also intended that Martina King, an existing independent Non-Executive a successful and exciting year for the City, Mooky Greidinger joined our Board Cineworld Group and its shareholders.
as CEO in succession to Steve Wiener.
Director, will succeed Peter Williams as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Despite a relatively quiet year for the Mooky has been in the cinema business cinema exhibition industry in general for close to 40 years and is internationally Martina has a great deal of experience in this area and has sat on the remuneration which saw worldwide admissions drop recognised as one of the leading operators compared to the previous year, Cineworld in the industry.
We are fortunate to have committees for a number of UK Listed businesses.
A further Board appointment continued to grow revenues and earnings him as CEO.
Israel Greidinger, also very and declared an increased dividend.
experienced in the industry, was originally is anticipated presently and we will announce the revised composition of appointed as COO, but after the initial Shareholders will recall that at the start review of roles and structure it was the respective Board Committees in due course.
I am confident that these of the year the Group announced a decided to appoint him as Deputy CEO transaction which combined Cineworld as we believed it was a more appropriate appointments will bring significant benefits to the Group and widen the and Cinema City.
In less than a year title for his role in the Company.
the results of that transaction have skill set on the Board.
proved successful and exceeded our Scott Rosenblum a New York lawyer who expectations.
The Cineworld Group is is experienced in corporate governance It goes without saying that we will maintain our strong culture of attaining now Europes second largest cinema matters and Arni Samuelsson an chain.
By the end of the year the Group independent owner and operator of the highest corporate governance standards.
This is a matter that the Board was operating 1,875 screens in 203 cinemas in Iceland were also appointed cinemas in nine different countries.
We to the Board as Non-Executive Directors takes extremely seriously.
We continue to take note of issues that concern the are currently scheduled to open a further during 2014.
It has been a pleasure 504 screens over the next three years welcoming our new Board members and environment, gender and other diversity and health and safety matters, and we 328 of which are in Central and Eastern they have already made a constructive Europe and 176 of which are in the UK.
I look periodically review and where appropriate forward to continuing to work with them improve our practices in those areas.
This expansion will be financed from internal resources and provide excellent in the future.
The prospects for the Group in 2015 are growth potential into the future.
Following nine years of committed good.
There is a strong film release service, David Maloney and Peter Williams programme and we are currently on track On a pro-forma basis revenue increased by 1.8% in the UK & Ireland and we will lose their independent status as to open a further 20 cinemas during the Non-Executive Directors, as defined by year.
I accordingly look forward to the continued to outperform the market as a whole, with box office revenues increasing the UK Corporate Governance Code, future with confidence.
and will step down from the Board at the marginally by 0.1% despite a 3.7% decline in admissions.
By way of contrast, next AGM.
I would like to personally thank On behalf of myself and the Board I would David and Peter for their dedication to like to express my appreciation to the admissions in CEE & Israel increased by 4.0%, which highlights the benefit Cineworld since its listing, and during Groups management and all its employees a period which has seen the Company for their hard work and achievements of the diversified portfolio effect of operating in a number of countries.
become the UKs most successful cinema during 2014.
They are a great team to chain, expand internationally and this work with, competent and committed, The Groups balance sheet is strong and year enter the FTSE 250.
They made a and I look forward to working with them significant contribution and we wish both in the future to continue to provide debt has reduced since the acquisition of Cinema City with our EBITDA to net debt of them well for the future.
ratio at the year end at 2.1 times compared to the 2.3 times we reported at the half Following a diligent search process we Anthony Bloom have made an offer to Julie Southern to Chairman year.
This strength and the sound operating performance has enabled the join the Board as a Non-Executive Director, 12 March 2015 and she will accordingly stand for election Board to declare a full year dividend of 13.5p per share, which represents 33.7% at the AGM.
If so elected, it is intended that Julie Southern will succeed David growth in cash dividends for shareholders who took up their rights as part of the Maloney as the Chair of the Audit Committee.
Julie has an extensive rights issue on 14 February 2014.
I am particularly proud of the fact that the background both in finance and consumer facing businesses and is well qualified to Group has increased its dividend every year since the Company was listed in assume this role, which she also holds at Rentokil-Initial plc.
2007, despite some very challenging years for the UK economy as a whole.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 The prospects for the Group in 2015 are good.
There is a strong film release programme and we are currently on track to open a further 20 cinemas during the year.
I accordingly look forward to the future with confidence.
Anthony Bloom Chairman C Ci in ne ew wo or rl ld G d Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nnu nua al l R Re ep po or rt t an and d A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 6 UK & Ireland The best place to watch a movie 841 SCREENS 83 SITES Cineworld Cineworld is the UKs leading cinema chain by Box Office revenues.
The cinemas are modern, well designed multiplexes with stadium and allocated seating, situated mostly in leisure and retail parks.
Cineworld provides a high level of customer service to a large volume and wide demographic of customers and shows a very broad range of films: it is also unique in offering the highly successful Unlimited card which allows customers access to unlimited films for one monthly subscription.
During the year Cineworld opened more IMAX screens as well as introducing a new Superscreen, new seats and a UK first: 4DX.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 The best place 56 to watch a movie SCREENS 19 SITES Picturehouse Picturehouse provides a unique, local and intimate film viewing experience having created cinemas of high quality and of architectural merit.
Picturehouse operates in 12 towns and cities, with seven located in London villages, and continues to focus on cinemagoers aged 25 and over, students and those in the more affluent demographics.
These audiences are reached by showing a mix of quality blockbusters, alternative content and specialised films.
With five screens or fewer, Picturehouse Cinemas create a cosy atmosphere, offering freshly-cooked food, bars and other special events, making the experience a bit different to the big multiplexes.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 Central & Eastern Europe and Israel 874 SCREENS 90 SITES Cinema City Cinema City operates in six Central and Eastern European countries and is one of the leading cinema chains in all the markets in which it operates.
The cinemas are all modern, well designed multiplexes with four or more screens, have market leading technologies such as IMAX, 4DX and VIP and cater for a high volume of customers.
The cinemas tend to have larger foyers than those in the UK, giving an impressive and welcoming feel and its proud local teams provide a great experience to their customers.
All cinemas have allocated seating as standard and offer a wide range of popular films, many of which are local to the country in which the cinemas are situated.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 9 104 SCREENS 11 SITES Yes Planet Yes Planet and Rav-Chen are the two brands the Cineworld Group operates within Israel.
Yes Planet is the market leader, offering IMAX, 4DX and VIP screens to its customers.
The styles and designs of the cinemas are a mixture of modern, multiplexes and local community cinemas, some of which were the first cinemas to be built in Israel.
All cinemas have stadium seating, big screens and the latest digital technology.
The cinemas show a range of popular films in comfortable surroundings to a large number of customers.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
