James Fisher and Sons plc Chairmans statement 2014 was a further year of progress for the Group with underlying profit before tax increasing by 13%.
Charles Rice, Chairman Group results and dividend Strategic developments I am pleased to report that James Fisher and Sons plc The Group continues to apply a consistent strategy of continued to progress in 2014 achieving a strong overall investing in niche businesses which operate in demanding result with Group revenue increasing by 8% to 444.8m and environments where their strong marine service and specialist underlying profit before tax up 13% to 46.9m.
Underlying engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
All divisions have diluted earnings per share was 74.0 pence, an increase of a broad international presence with growth in recent years 13% over 2013. coming principally from new markets in Africa, Asia and the Far East.
The strong cash flow generated by the Group Three of the Groups four divisions achieved a strong financial has been reinvested in both organic projects and bolt-on performance.
Specialist Technical increased its profit by acquisitions.
This has helped strengthen the market presence over 50% with the combined Divex and Defence businesses and product range of our companies, providing a stronger performing well and our Nuclear business continuing to build platform for further development.
This enhanced operational its contract order book.
Offshore Oil had another successful capability shows through in the increased size of contracts year boosted by substantial equipment sales to Brazil as well being won, often for multi-year periods.
as a generally strong performance across all sectors other than Norway which slowed in the second half.
Tankships During 2014, the Group made three bolt-on acquisitions maintained the positive trend of recent years with a further for an initial gross consideration of 14.1m.
In January, improvement in contract utilisation rates.
The strength of Subsea Vision Ltd, an operator of underwater remotely these three divisions outweighed a lower result in Marine operated vehicles ROVs was acquired to strengthen our Support where volumes in the ship-to-ship transfer market Marine Support divisions survey and underwater handling were down and trading at the divisions Australian and capability.
In March, Defence Consulting Europe AB Sweden Brazilian subsidiaries was weak.
A combination of fixed cost was acquired to reinforce our presence in the swimmer reductions and some firming of volumes placed this division delivery vehicle segment of our Specialist Technical defence on a better footing by year end.
Testconsult Limited joined the Group in June to complement our existing Strainstall business in stress Cash conversion in 2014 remained strong at 109% and yearmonitoring and testing both offshore and on land.
Since the end balance sheet gearing was 31% compared to 30% at 31 year end a further two acquisitions have been completed: December 2013.
National Hyperbaric Centre Limited in Aberdeen, which will The continued good progress of the Group has led the Board strengthen Divexs market leading position in the saturated to propose a 10% increase in the final dividend to 14.9 pence diving sector and Subtech Group Holdings Pty Limited of per share which together with the 7.1 pence interim will bring South Africa, which will greatly enhance our marine project the total dividend for the year to 22.0 pence per share 2013: capability in the growing markets of Southern Africa.
This will be the 20th consecutive year that the acquisitions demonstrate our continued ability to find sensibly Group has increased the dividend paid to its shareholders.
priced businesses which reinforce our market presence and capability while enhancing their own growth prospects via their access to the capital resources and international network of the James Fisher Group.
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Dividend per share 22.0p 10% 2013: 20.0p The Board In 2015, we expect some slowing in our Offshore Oil Michael Everard retired from his Non-Executive position division as a result of the recent reduction in oil prices, on the Board in April after seven years of service - I would particularly as this division benefitted from some major like to thank Michael for his contribution during that time one-off contracts last year.
However, our businesses in this and for his help in shaping the integration of the FT Everard division are focused on the production and development business into the Group.
In November 2014, I was delighted sectors rather than on exploration and appraisal.
Demand in to welcome Aedamar Comiskey to the Board as a Nonthese sectors is driven primarily by the volume of production Executive.
Aedamar is a partner in Linklaters LLP and brings and is less sensitive to cut-backs in capital investment wide commercial and international experience, adding further budgets.
Our businesses geographical focus is mainly on strength to the Board in these areas.
areas of the world where production levels are forecast to grow in the medium term.
Therefore, while we have Staff seen some softening in Norway and Aberdeen, our larger The growth of James Fisher and the increasing complexity international businesses continue to show resilience.
of its operations require a corresponding step-up in the Our other three divisions are well placed.
Specialist management and staff development activities of the Group.
A Technical has a strong order book which is substantially senior management development programme commenced underpinned by its Nuclear and Defence businesses.
It in 2014 together with a skills focused training programme has demonstrated its ability to win major contracts and we across our businesses.
Increased attention to the graduate would hope for further significant contract wins in these programme will see over 40 new graduates join the Group sectors in 2015.
Tankships has performed well in recent this year.
These training and development programmes help years and now has a well-balanced contract base to its build coherence across the Groups operations as well as business.
Marine Support disappointed in 2014 but we enhancing the skills and capability of our staff.
We intend to would expect to see recovery in 2015 boosted by its project invest further in this area as we go forward.
businesses and a firmer STS market.
The continued growth of the Group reflects the dedication The Group has strong cash flow and a conservatively and professionalism of our staff, many of whom work away geared balance sheet.
This puts James Fisher in a good from home in demanding environments.
On behalf of the position both to continue to invest organically and to be Board, I would like to thank all our staff for the tremendous alert for further incremental acquisition opportunities.
commitment they have shown throughout the year and for the success which they have achieved.
The development of We therefore look forward to 2015 with measured James Fisher over the past decade has been remarkable and confidence and believe that we continue to be well placed bears testament to their effort.
to provide further growth and value for our shareholders.
Charles Rice Outlook 2 March 2015 Performance in 2014, where the Group has delivered a strong overall result despite a downturn in one sector, underlines our broad geographical spread and range of specialist services.
The Group is not overly dependent on any one regional market or business sector.
