Chairmans Statement MOVING THE BALANCE OF THE PORTFOLIO TOWARDS ATTRACTIVE COMMERCIAL MARKETS We have a tremendous track record of providing an increasing dividend to our shareholders.
Full year dividend Overview our customers, the savings have also given us the I am pleased with the progress we have made, opportunity to increase our investment in the business.
implementing the Groups strategy and positioning We are now using the expertise gained during the EiD 10.65p the business to deliver sustainable growth, despite implementation in the integration of Aeroflex.
Building on the challenging market background in the year, the progress made over the last few years, we have also 2013: 9.68p further moved the balance of the portfolio towards In the US, the defence security market is continuing attractive and growing commercial markets.
We have through its periodic down-cycle, albeit with the rate of continued to grow our commercial revenue organically decline expected to moderate.
Our other global defence often leveraging technology from our defence security security markets are mixed, with investment in Europe being markets into adjacent commercial markets.
held back but we are seeing growth in other parts of the world.
Our commercial businesses continue to benefit Bob Murphy has transitioned the Group to a new from good momentum and we expect this to continue.
operational structure in the year, through the organisational design project.
Four realigned Sectors have replaced the four We are also going through a phase of increased engineering Divisions and it has strengthened the senior management and development activity which, while it creates short term and reporting structure to align it with the drive to deliver pressures for the business, will ultimately result in a stream sustainable growth.
of long term revenue from high priority programmes, as they move into production and aftermarket phases.
We have continued to review and align the culture of the business, with the initiation of the Great Place to Work Over a number of years, we have successfully increased survey.
Included in this, is a Group-wide employee the rate of our investment in technology and this now engagement and feedback initiative, which had an initial stands at 6.7% of revenue.
We have also continued to response rate of over 80% of employees.
Work will continue invest in the Groups employees, building on the training on this initiative through 2015 to build on and sustain and development programmes that were initiated in engagement with employees.
This should ensure the previous years.
Cobham has also joined the 5% club, workforce is fully aligned with the Groups growth strategy an initiative which commits UK employers to hiring 5% and other objectives as well as monitoring and building of its intake as apprentices or graduates within five years.
the job satisfaction of our employees.
We substantially completed the multi-year EiD programme Of course, acting ethically and in compliance with all in 2014, which has improved productivity, as well as applicable laws and regulations is another fundamental delivering a fundamental improvement across a range of cornerstone of sustainable growth and a key foundation of operational metrics.
It has also delivered significant cost our culture, on which we will not compromise.
Not only is this programme supporting us in our is enshrined within the Cobham Code of Business Conduct.
efforts to grow the business through consistent delivery to We have striven to ensure that every single Cobham Cobham plc www.
com 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT See page 28 for more information on our financial performance.
For further information visit us online at www.
com 13% CAGR over ten years in dividend pence Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2014 2010 6.00 of 7.746p 2013: 7.04p.
This, together with the interim 2011 8.00 dividend of 2.904p 2012: 2.64p, will result in a total 2012 8.80 dividend per share for 2014 of 10.65p 2013: 9.68p, an increase of 10% on the prior year, in line with the 2013 9.68 Groups progressive dividend policy.
2014 10.65 The Group has a long track record of dividend growth employee knows what is expected of them and understands and the Board remains committed to continuing to pay the standards to be met.
We have been mandating training a progressive dividend.
As Cobham now enters a new programmes on the Cobham Code of Business Conduct for phase of sustainable growth, the Board has considered a number of years and I am pleased to say that we have its future approach to dividends.
It has concluded that achieved 100% employee training in the year.
This will future dividend increases should be broadly aligned with continue to receive an appropriate level of senior underlying earnings growth, while rebuilding dividend management focus going forward.
This policy will give it flexibility to drive growth and maximise shareholder returns.
The Board After nine years service John Patterson, Non-executive Conclusion Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, We will now focus the Group on delivering organic revenue stood down from the Cobham Board at the conclusion growth, integrating Aeroflex, generating strong cash flows of the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2014.
We are from operations and continuing to upgrade our programme grateful for his significant contribution and support over management skills and capabilities.
We will also continue this period.
Alison Wood has taken over as Chair of to make significant investment in the portfolio to further the Remuneration Committee.
strengthen our leading market positions Also on 24 April 2014, we welcomed Birgit Nrgaard to Overall, Cobham has excellent prospects based on its close the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Birgit is a Danish customer relationships, differentiated technology and national and has extensive experience in engineering related know-how, market leading positions and an increasingly markets, including as the former Chief Executive Officer strong operational foundation, enabling us to drive of Grontmij Carl Bro, the Danish engineering consultancy sustainable growth through economic cycles.
group, as well as the Chief Operating Officer of Grontmij NV, its Dutch parent company.
She currently holds a number of non-executive roles in the private and public sector in the UK and overseas.
Birgit has also joined Cobhams Remuneration Committee.
We have also welcomed Alan Semple to the Board on 25February2015.
Alan is currently a Director and Chief John Devaney Financial Officer at John Wood Group plc, a role which he Chairman has announced he will retire from in May 2015, after 15 4 March 2015 years service.
Alan has also been appointed to the Groups Audit Committee, so that it can benefit from his deep and extensive financial knowledge.
At the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015, Alan will become Chair of the Audit Committee.
He will replace Mike Wareing, who will stand down as Chair on that date but remain a member of the Audit Committee.
com Cobham plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
