CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CREATING VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS Compass has had another successful year.
We remain very positive about the attractive growth opportunities in our markets globally and the potential for further revenue and margin growth.
OUR VALUES POSITION IN FTSE 100 INDEX AS OPENNESS, TRUST AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 2013: 30 AND INTEGRITY 28 PASSION FOR QUALITY WIN THROUGH TEAMWORK COMPASS SHARE COMPASS GROUP SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE V THE FTSE 100 INDEX CAN DO SAFELY PRICE PERFORMANCE PENCE V FTSE 100 OVER LAST 3 YEARS RESPONSIBILITY FTSE REBASED % COMPASS 2013 2014 1,100 1,050 1,000 950 900 850 800 S O N D J F M A M J J A S 1 YEAR 2 YEARS 3 YEARS Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 2 14.10 29.70 61.20 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Creating shareholder value is a key priority for the Group I am very pleased to report, in my first statement as Chairman, that with constant currency earnings.
This year, the Board is proposing Compass has had another successful year with growth in constant a final dividend of 17.7 pence for payment on 23 February 2015. currency revenue and operating profit.
Cash flow has remained strong, This brings our total dividend for 2014 to 26.5 pence, a year on year continuing to underpin our commitment to shareholder value and increase of 10.5%.
enabling us to make a significant return of cash to shareholders during As well as our commitment to a progressive dividend policy, the year.
the ongoing strength of our business and our cash flows, and our confidence in our future performance, mean we have been able We have continued to deliver a strong performance in North America to make a Return of Cash of 1 billion to shareholders accompanied and in the Fast Growing & Emerging region, where emerging markets by a Share Consolidation.
This was completed in July of this year.
are growing at a double digit rate.
The culture of outsourcing is strong The 500 million share buyback programme announced in in all our regions, but we are seeing particularly robust growth in November 2013 is ongoing and is expected to complete during 2015.
North America, where the already strong trend is accelerating, and a structural shift to outsourcing in the emerging economies.
Economic conditions in Europe & Japan have somewhat improved over the year LEADERSHIP and the investments we have made in the sales and retention teams During the year, Carol Arrowsmith joined the Board as a non-executive are being reflected in an encouraging pipeline.
Carol was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, succeeding Sir Ian Robinson who stepped down from the Our Management and Performance MAP framework continues to role in June.
Sir Ian remains the Groups Senior Independent Nonhave a significant impact on driving growth and margin across the Executive Director.
Carol is also a member of the Audit, Nomination business.
The focus on efficiencies within the MAP framework is and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Carol was previously a ongoing and we believe that we are still only part of the way through partner at Deloitte LLP and Vice Chairman of their UK business, the journey to drive further productivity in our cost base.
As well as where for many years she led their executive remuneration practice.
delivering further progression in the margin, the ongoing generation of Carols experience makes her an excellent addition to our Board and efficiencies enables us to continue to invest in the growth opportunities I would like to welcome her to the Group.
The Board and the Groups Executive Board, led by our Group Chief OUR PEOPLE Executive Richard Cousins, have worked hard to put in place effective The results we have achieved are a testament to our excellent people, succession and development programmes for our strong leadership many of whom Ive met as Ive visited our operations during the year.
The excellent work that has been done I have been particularly encouraged by the positive and consistent is reflected in our continued strong results and will continue to be language that the MAP framework has created and the sharing of a focus for me in my role as Chairman.
best practice that our global forums enable.
I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to thank all our great people for SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK the tremendous results they have achieved this year.
Compass has had a good year, delivering solid organic revenue growth and a 10 basis point increase in the Group operating margin.
North COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY America and Fast Growing & Emerging, which account for two thirds Corporate responsibility underpins our business, driving our decisions of Group revenue, have grown strongly and we are encouraged by the and enabling us to achieve our strategic goals in a responsible and improvement seen through the year in Europe & Japan.
The Board is fully committed to the integration of to next year, the pipeline of new contracts is healthy and we expect to broader social, ethical and sustainable practices across our day to day see further good performances in all of our regions.
Our teams around the Group work hard to continuously Looking to the longer term, we remain excited about the attractive enhance the positive contribution that we make to local communities.
structural growth opportunities in our markets globally and we believe We focus on the issues that are important to our business and our we are well placed to capitalise on them.
We also expect to deliver stakeholders, from the way we source our products to how we engage further cost efficiencies, which will help to support future growth and with our people and customers.
Specifically, our focus includes enable us to make further progress in the operating margin.
As a result, developing our people, the health and wellbeing of our consumers, we remain confident in our ability to continue to create significant value the responsible use of resources and improving the integrity of our for our shareholders.
We started our corporate responsibility journey in 2007 and have delivered continuous performance improvement against our published key performance indicators and targets.
Details of our progress can be found on pages 40 to 45.
PAUL WALSH Chairman SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 26 November 2014 Creating shareholder value is a key priority for the Group.
Our clear and consistent strategy and our financial performance enable us to both invest in the business and to grow the dividend broadly in line Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 3
