Chairmans statement Last year was a year of major achievement for Royal Mail, with a good financial and operational performance, agreement in principle on a new industrial relations framework withthe CWU and a successful flotation on the LondonStock Exchange.
Donald Brydon, CBE An important year Royal Mail is changing.
Expansion in Chairman More than 700,000 members of the public e-retailing in the UK and across Europe is bought shares in Royal Mail: the largest single continuing apace, while addressed letter extension of private share ownership in the volumes in the UK continue to decline.
I would like to welcome all increasingly a parcels delivery company.
I am We are reporting a of our new shareholders.
I am delighted to say confident that we will succeed in the good financial and they were joined by the overwhelming continuing transformation of our Company.
majority of our employees in the UK, who in operational Our contribution to UK life total received free a ten per cent stake in our We are proud to be the designated provider of performance.
Approximately 15,000 employees the Universal Service.
Our contribution to the also chose to buy shares through the UK is significant.
For the 2013-14 financial Employee Priority Offer.
We are pleased our year, the Centre for Economics and Business shares are so widely held, and that alignment Research estimated we made the seventh has been created between the interests of largest contribution to the UK economy of all shareholders and employees.
We had a total economic Transforming our business impact of more than 10.5 billion, made up of Our strategy is delivering, as outlined by our direct and indirect contributions to the wider CEO in her Review on page8.
This equates to about 0.79per cent of Royal Mails comprehensive transformation of UKGDP.
programme across our UK operations is Royal Mails employees make a substantial largely complete.
The vast majority of letters contribution to charitable organisations.
are now sorted and sequenced automatically.
RoyalMail holds the Guinness World Record We have introduced new, more flexible for the number of charities supported through delivery methods.
We have increased payroll giving over 975 charities.
Royal Mail efficiency and can handle an increasing employees have given an incredible number of parcels.
We continue to have a 50million through the scheme since 1989. strong operational link to Post Office Limited They should be very proud.
and they are our retail partner.
GLS track record of expertise and innovation provides a We continue to support the British Postal framework for best practice behaviours across Museum and Archive BPMA in its the Group.
programme to upgrade and expand its role as the curator and exhibitor of the UKs postal We have agreed a new industrial relations heritage.
I previously reported on the support framework with the Communication Workers we have provided to this programme through Union CWU.
It will provide a new way of funding and gifting its new exhibition centre, working together, helping to provide industrial Calthorpe House, due to open in 2016. stability as we seek to transform our business.
Through its fundraising campaign for a new Postal Museum and Mail Rail project, the BPMA has already secured 21.7 million from a wide range of supporters, who have provided afirm foundation to this exciting project.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 06 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Safety Thank you The safety of our employees is always our first We announced in January 2014 that priority.
The Board has overseen a continued MarkHigson has decided to stand down reduction in lost time accidents.
We continue asManaging Director, Operations and to focus on initiatives to improve safety on the Modernisation, at this years AGM.
I would road, as outlined in our Corporate liketo take this opportunity to thank Mark Responsibility section.
The Anti-social forhis huge contribution to the initial phase Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 was ofour transformation programme.
It is a significant In April 2014, after the reporting period, we change to the law in relation to dangerous confirmed Jan Babiaks resignation from the dogs, introducing tougher sentences and Board.
Jan has made a very valuable making dog owners liable for attacks on contribution to Royal Mail during an important private property in England and Wales.
The Board and I would our part, if there is arisk from a dog, or any like to thank her for her support and counsel.
other animal, we willsuspend delivery until we can deliver the mail safely.
We will also be The flotation of Royal Mail was never a seeking to ensure prosecution of the owners foregone conclusion.
It took much hard work of dogs in the mostserious cases.
inside and outside Royal Mail to put the Company in a position to access external Our shareholders capital and ready itself for plc status.
The We previously communicated our intention to continued success of Royal Mail, including pay a dividend of 133 million in July 2014. the recent privatisation, is testament to the This amount is approximately two-thirds of significant contribution of Moya Greene the notional full-year dividend of 200 million and her team.
that the Directors believe they would have proposed if the Company had been listed I would like to thank all those involved throughout this financial year.
On the basis infacilitating our flotation.
Most importantly, ofour performance, the Board and I are Iwould like to thank all of our people for delighted to announce that the Board has contributing to Royal Mails success this year.
recommended the payment of a final dividend of 13.3pence per share on 31July 2014, subject to approval by our shareholders at our Annual General Meeting AGM on 24 July 2014.
Donald Brydon, CBE Board Evaluation Process Chairman The Board and I recognise the importance of 6 June 2014 reviewing Board practices and performance on a regular basis.
A performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors takes place on an annual basis with the support of the Company Secretary.
This years evaluation was completed during May 2013 and objectives were set for the Board based on the outcomes of the evaluation.
Following privatisation, a more detailed evaluation of the Board, involving the use of an external board evaluator, will take place during 2014.
A performance evaluation of the Audit & Risk Committee was conducted by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committees have also undertaken a review of their terms of reference and updates have been made to comply with best practice.
More information can be found in the Corporate Governance section pages 47 to 57.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 07
