CHAIRMANs STATEMENT Martin Davey - Chairman This has been a positive, albeit challenging, year for Cranswick.
The business has had to contend with record input prices, the impact on its customer base of the changing dynamics of UK food retailing and an environment where the consumer has been subject to ongoing financial constraints.
For the business to have continued to maintain its progress against this backdrop is no mean achievement.
Strong growth in both total and underlying sales was recorded and this reflected market share gains along with further growth in those categories in which the Group is positioned in the UK market.
Market growth was particularly strong in the super premium categories as seen with both sausage and bacon.
Export sales continued to grow and this achievement was recently recognised by the industry with Cranswick being named Exporter of the Year.
Results Other investments in the year added capacity and improved operating Total sales, which include a small amount of third party sales from the efficiencies enabling the Company to absorb some of the supply pig breeding and rearing activities acquired in the year, of 995 million chain inflation.
were 14 per cent ahead of the previous year and included particularly significant increases in fresh pork, bacon and cooked meats.
Dividend Underlying sales increased by 12 per cent.
Adjusted operating profit The Board is proposing to increase the final dividend to 22 pence rose to 53.3 million although operating margins were slightly below per share, an increase of 6.8 per cent from last year.
Together with those of the previous year on account of the increase in input prices.
the interim dividend, which was raised 6.4 per cent to 10 pence per share: this makes a total dividend for the year of 32 pence per share.
Reported profit before taxation was 54.8 million and earnings per This is an increase of 6.7 per cent on the 30 pence per share paid share were 88.7 pence.
Excluding the net IAS 41 valuation movement last year.
The final dividend, if approved by Shareholders, will be paid on the pig herd in the current financial year and non-recurring items on 5 September 2014 to Shareholders on the register at the close in both the current and prior financial years, adjusted profit before of business on 4 July 2014.
Shares will go ex-dividend on 2 July 2014. taxation was 52.2 million, an increase of 6.3 per cent on that achieved Shareholders will again have the option to receive the dividend by way previously.
Earnings per share on the same basis after tax rose of scrip issue.
Board The borrowings of the business are conservatively structured and Bernard Hoggarth, who stood down from the position of Chief the Company has recently extended its banking facility through to Executive in 2012 and has continued as a Director since then on a July 2018.
This 120 million unsecured facility provides generous part-time basis, intends to retire from the Board at the forthcoming headroom going forward.
Net finance costs were covered 54 times by Annual General Meeting.
Bernard has been with Cranswick for 36 Group operating profit, in line with the previous year.
Operating cash years and has made an enormous contribution to the development flow in the period was particularly strong, notwithstanding the of the Company.
Over this period the business has evolved from an 27.7 million investment in the Groups asset base and 14.4 million East Yorkshire supplier of animal feed into one of the UKs leading food spent on acquisitions.
Net debt at the end of the year stood at 17.0 producers.
His involvement over the years has embraced at different million compared to 20.1 million a year earlier.
times animal feed sales, pig rearing and marketing along with the development into food production.
This period has seen Cranswick Strategic investments progress from being a farmer-owned regional business into a listing During the year the Company invested in pig breeding and pig rearing on the London Stock Exchange and a member of the FTSE250.
These operate under Wayland Farms and Wold Farms and have worked with Bernard for almost 30 of those years and express together supply 15 to 20 per cent of the Companys weekly British the appreciation of the Board and my own personal thanks for his pig requirements.
This strategic development enhances Cranswicks immense contribution and for being a great colleague throughout commitment to, and gives greater control over, a robust and integrated that time.
supply chain with a clear focus on premium British ingredients.
In addition, it has helped offset some of the impact of the rise in John Worby will also be standing down from the Board at the input prices.
John has served as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee since Further investment in new product categories came with the 2005 and this year will have completed nine years as a Director, at commissioning of the Yorkshire Baker pastry facility in Malton, North which time, under corporate governance guidelines, he will no longer Yorkshire.
The site produces a range of premium pastry products be deemed independent.
Johns experience and contribution to including pies, sausage rolls and quiches and was operational from discussions have been of enormous value in the development of the summer last year.
Commissioning costs and the challenges of a business and, on behalf of the Board, I extend our sincere thanks and start-up have been absorbed whilst growing the sales and developing wish him well for the future.
the range in partnership with the customer base.
4 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Mark Reckitt joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in been the focus of attention for some years under a dedicated project May 2014 and will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee at team.
Significant progress has been made in a number of areas the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
He retired including waste, water, energy, packaging and carbon footprint and from his position as Group Strategy Director at Smiths Group plc in this was highlighted recently with the Group winning the industrys April 2014.
Prior to joining Smiths Group in 2011 Mark had 20 years Environmental Initiative of the Year award for 2014.
Further details with Cadbury plc in roles embracing finance and strategy.
He is also a are included within the Corporate Social Responsibility section on Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee pages 24 to 31 and the Awards section on page 7. at JD Wetherspoon plc.
Staff In addition to the Board changes outlined above Kate Allum joined The continued successful development of the business over the the Company as a Non-Executive Director in July 2013, as previously past year would not have been achieved without the hard work, reported to Shareholders.
Kates experience of international food determination and expertise of all staff at the Company and on markets has broadened the expertise and experience within the Board.
behalf of the Board I extend sincere appreciation and thanks for their contribution.
Corporate governance The Board is mindful of the requirements of the UK Corporate Outlook Governance Code and embraces this as part of its culture.
A statement The past year has seen another positive performance from the relating to compliance with the Code is included within the Corporate Company.
The Board looks forward to the challenges and opportunities Governance Statement on page 34.
Recent developments have that lie ahead as it pursues Cranswicks continued successful long-term included the external evaluation of the Board and its procedures, development.
undertaken in 2013, which reported positively and the improved gender diversity within the Board.
Environmental initiatives Martin Davey Managing and reducing the impact that the business has on the Chairman environment is an integral part of the Companys activities and has 19 May 2014 Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 5
