Strategic Report Chairmans Statement We faced difficult market conditions in the first six months of 2014, but I am pleased to say that the second half of the year saw improved revenues, a continued strong innovation flow and early benefits from our new organisation structure.
Our Performance The trading environment during the first half of the year was challenging, with continuing stagnation in Europe and subdued consumer demand in both our mature and emerging markets.
Together with the impact ofadverse currency translation, this environment impacted our performance, particularly in Personal Care.
However, as the year progressed, we saw improved revenues acrossall core sectors.
This reflected accelerating innovation, improved trading outside Western Europe, following our recent investments, and the early benefits of our new organisational structure.
Thisrecognises the benefits of our focused strategy and the strong foundations we have in place for generating sustained growth.
Overall we made good progress in growing constant currency revenue and broadly protected constant currency profit.
However, adjusted pre-tax profit reduced by 6.4% to 235.4m 2013: 251.4m, primarily reflecting adverse currency translation because of the strength of Sterling.
Profit before tax for the year was 229.4m 2013:250.1m.
Free cash generation remained strong and ournetdebt reduced to 180.2m 2013: 202.2m.
Delivering on Strategy We are differentiating ourselves as a speciality chemicals company that attracts high margin, quality business by developing ground breaking ingredients for attractive niche markets.
This was evidenced in 2014 by growing sales of our New and Protected Products NPP and constant currency revenue rose on the back ofstrong customer demand for our innovative ingredients.
Over the last three years, we have invested in high growth, developing markets, and expanded our capabilities outside Europe.
The success of this strategy is beginning to show: our performance in Asia was strong throughout the year, and Latin and North America improved progressively in the second half of 2014.
Our growing leadership in sustainability also reaped rewards.
Asglobal customers faced growing consumer demand for more sustainable products, they increasingly sought out our ingredients, particularly in relation to our industry leading position in responsiblysourced certified palm oil derivatives.
Sustainable and natural products will continue to be key in driving ourgrowth.
Our focused strategy is delivering.
Our improving performance has given us the confidence to invest further in the Business.
The next three years will see us double capital investment and deliver our biggest ever project, producing sustainable bio-surfactants primarily for the North American market.
Closer to Customers The improvement in our underlying revenue performance in the second half of theyear also underlined the calibre of the Executive Team.
They werenot thrown off course by the earlier challenges, butremained committed to implementing our stated strategy.
They invested inlinewith our strategic objectives of delivering consistent top and bottom line growth, increasing the proportion of new and protected product sales and investing in a sustainable future: made 04 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information acquisitions that expanded our technology portfolio: strengthened Other significant appointments during the year included that of sales and technology in Asia: and moved from a regional to a global Anthony Fitzpatrick, as our first President of Corporate Development.
Anthony, a former investment banker specialising in the chemicals sector, is driving our search for new acquisitions to expand our The new global structure that we implemented in 2014 demonstrates capabilities.
In another strategic investment in our senior team, we the importance we place oncustomer intimacy.
The former regional recruited a new Group Human Resources Director, Lee Johnson.
model had served us well, but with many of our customers now Meanwhile, I am delighted to say that Helena Ganczakowski, our international, it was time for us toevolve and move with them.
newest Non-Executive Director, is providing valuable input to the Consequently, we are now organised by global market sector.
Board since joining in February 2014.
Wehave split our Consumer Care business into Personal Care and Life Sciences Health Care andCrop Care, sothat each markets Dividend different opportunities and challenges can be addressed and a The Board has recommended an increase in the final dividend to stronger overall performance delivered.
In addition, our Performance 36.0p 2013: 35.5p, with a total dividend declared in 2014 up 1.6% Technologies sector isdriving innovation and developing new regional to65.5p 2013: 64.5p.
In addition, the Board has set out a clear markets.
This reorganisation has given usbetter market focus and capital allocation policy, whereby cash generated will be invested in customer alignment to drive additional growth.
Our dedicated market growing the Business organically, and by acquisitions with the surplus sector management teams can now provide the expert advice and returned to shareholders through regular dividends and one off returns support globally that our customers increasingly seek.
within a target level of net debt.
Celebrating 50 Years as a Public Company Outlook Since our business was established in 1925, we have been 2015 has started in line with our expectations.
Although we expect onaremarkable journey of growth and in 2014 we celebrated demand in Europe to remain subdued, we continue to target our50thyear trading as a public company.
Back in 1964 we were profitable sales growth for the Group.
The Board is confident that predominantly a UK business with a market capitalisation of circa ourinvestments in innovation, new capacity and fast growing 1m.
Over the next 50 years, through continuous investment, markets, alongside close collaboration with our customers, relentless innovation and our unique culture around the world, willdeliversustained growth over the medium term.
wehave become the world class international speciality chemical Croda Culture company that we are today.
Perhaps one of the best indications This is my final Croda Annual Report as I shall be retiring later this year ofoursuccess comes from looking at the chemical companies listed after ten very enjoyable years as Chairman.
onthe UK stock market in 1964 compared to today: out of 32, we arethe only company still there, not only surviving, but prospering.
I am pleased to report that this great Company is in excellent shape and faces the future with confidence.
For me, this confidence stems Best Practice Corporate Governance from Crodas very special culture.
It is a company where great Since our last external review in 2012, we have continued to emphasis is placed on doing the right thing at all times, on building implement positive changes to evolve our corporate governance asustainable business in every sense and where decisions are not framework and maintain best practice.
In 2014, our second external driven by purely short term considerations.
This approach is enabled board evaluation recorded that we had a mature and collaborative by openness in communication, a willingness to address difficult board, focusing on governance, strategy, innovation, global growth, issues in a timely way and a belief that work should be both satisfying re-structuring and people.
Two years on from the last external review, and fun.
I have always sensed that Croda employees feel a great pride very good progress has been made in the Boards work, with greater in their Company as, indeed, do I. Non-Executive Director involvement in the Business to ensure that they can add even more value to the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
Leadership Changes Martin Flower On 22 January 2015, after nine years with the Company, Group Chairman Finance Director Sean Christie stepped down from the Board.
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank Sean for his outstanding contribution to the Company and wish him the very best for the future.
Sean was succeeded by Jez Maiden, who has joined from National Express, where he was Group Finance Director for six years.
Jez, who has worked extensively in the speciality chemicals sector as a finance director, is already making a valuable contribution to our Company and I would like to formally welcome him to the Board.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
