Chairmans statement Our goal is to deliver growing shareholder returns by generating revenue growth and increasing profitability.
Ron Mackintosh, Chairman CSR is an innovator in the development of On 4 December 2014, shareholders approved the scheme of arrangement and certain related matters in connection with the multifunction semiconductor platforms across five Qualcomm Transaction.
Subject to the receipt of certain antitrust strategic areas: Auto, Voice & Music, Document clearances, the acquisition is expected to become effective by Imaging, Bluetooth Smart and the nascent market late summer 2015. ofIndoor Location.
Our platforms are adopted by manyof the worlds leading technology companies in I should like to state the appreciation of the Board for the dedication, professionalism and strength of our people and use a wide range of consumer devices and automobiles.
this opportunity to express that directly to them.
Without their Together, these five strategic areas represent our commitment and capabilities, their inventiveness and capacity to areas of focus and we believe that they position create new ideas, CSR would not have achieved the success ustodeliver growth and sustainable returns in the that it has experienced.
Strategy and financial objectives During 2014, we continued to extend our platform strategy on which Joep van Beurden, the CEO, will comment in more detail Summary of 2014 in his report.
We have focused on building and maintaining The most significant event of 2014 was the proposed acquisition leading positions in our target markets and technologies, while of your Company by Qualcomm Incorporated Qualcomm.
also showing continued financial progress.
On 15 October 2014, we announced that the Board of directors had reached agreement with Qualcomm regarding the terms Underlying diluted earnings per ordinary share showed good of a recommended cash offer for CSR by Qualcomm Global growth on the prior year from $0.46 in 2013 to $0.51 in 2014.
Ltd. QGT, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary Although Core revenue fell 3% from $722.3 million in 2013 to of Qualcomm, by way of a scheme of arrangement the $703.0 million in 2014, the Group underlying gross margin Qualcomm Transaction.
has continued to improve, rising to 58.5% for 2014, from 52.4% in 2013, as Core becomes a higher proportion of the The Qualcomm Transaction, which was recommended by Group revenue.
the Board, followed an intense period beginning with the Our IFRS diluted profit per ordinary share was $0.55 compared announcement on 28 August 2014 that your Board had rejected with diluted loss per ordinary share of $0.28 in 2013.
This swing an offer from Microchip Technology Incorporated to acquire the mainly reects the profitability movement between 2014 and Company.
2013, including the gain arising from the sale of certain Imaging The Qualcomm Transaction 900 pence per ordinary share IP and the connected impairment reversal during 2014, and the values CSR at 1,560 million and as we stated at the time non-cash impairment charge on our Cameras business in 2013. of announcing the terms of the offer, the Board believes that All these factors are explained in more detail in the financial the Qualcomm Transaction provides CSR shareholders with report on pages 18 to 31. an immediate and certain value which is highly attractive.
The decision to recommend the transaction was reached after taking into account the advice of the Boards advisers.
6 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information CSR in review Returns to shareholders Board changes CSRs performance enables us to continue investing in new In December 2014, Anthony Tony Carlisle stood down from the products and technologies, which underpins our strategy, and to Board, as previously announced.
Tony had been on the Board sustain the return of capital to our shareholders.
During 2014, since July 2005, acted as the Senior Independent Director and we returned $61.9 million to shareholders through the buyback was a member of each of our Audit, Remuneration and of shares, paid an interim dividend of $0.052 per ordinary share Nomination Committees.
His experience and abilities have been and the Employee benefit Trust purchased shares of of enormous value to the Board and the committees on which $7.6 million.
I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board and wish him well.
In view of the Qualcomm Transaction, the Board does not intend to pay or recommend for payment any further dividends at this Our people time.
The Board also does not intend to undertake any further 2014 was a year of significant change for the Company.
I would share buybacks prior to the completion of the Qualcomm like to once again thank our people, who have shown great Transaction.
Our markets The markets in which CSR operates continue to provide good prospects for growth.
We recognise that in maintaining our Ron Mackintosh objective of having market-leading positions in our target markets, Chairman we are up against strong competitors, as well as a rapidly 4 March 2015 changing landscape for consumer electronics.
Your Board is mindful of these challenges and accordingly we continue to evaluate the potential risks that could impact the Group as pertaining to the continued conduct of its business.
We address these matters in more detail on pages 32 to 35 and pages 43 to 51.
CSR is a fabless semiconductor company and we rely on the support of our supply chain partners in providing the necessary resources and capacity that enables us to manufacture, test and supply our products to our customers.
I would like to express our thanks in particular to both TSMC, whom we have worked with from our first chip to the present day, and ASE, who provide us with testing, packaging and logistics services.
how were doing We saw strong revenue growth in our Voice & Music business, supported by growth in our stereo audio products and licencees for our aptX technology.
In Auto, we have a good pipeline of design wins and saw growth in the automotive factory-t markets, while we saw weakness in automotive PND and the aftermarket in China.
We saw weakness in Cameras as customers switched to next generation technologies of alternative suppliers.
The potential for Bluetooth Smart remains strong as we see increasing demand in areas such as Human Interface Devices, remote controls and wearables.
