ACTinG CHAiRmAnS STATemenT Living by our Vision and Values Corporate responsibility The Board fully recognises the importance Dairy Crest is a responsible business that of corporate governancein underpinning demonstrates its commitment to corporate the integrity and performance of the responsibility in many ways.
It is acutely aware of Dairy recognised by Business in the Community, Crests responsibilities to the farmers including coming second inits Company who supply us with milk, our employees of the Year competition last year.
This year and franchisees, our pensioners, the we have been awarded 4.5 stars by BITC communities in which we operate and and areits highest ranked business in our shareholders.
We use the framework theUK.
provided by our Vision and Values to balance the different interests of these A stable board groups.
This has served us well in the past Other than the appointment of Tom and continues to underpin everything we Atherton as Group Finance Director from do today.
23 May 2013, there have been no Board changes or Management Board changes A simpler, more financially robust during the year.
business Last years transformational sale of our increased dividend recommended French spreads business, St Hubert, made The Board is recommending a final Dairy Crest a simpler, more financially dividend of 15.4 pence per share, making robust business and provided a strong a full year dividend of 21.3 pence per base for future growth.
By continuing to share, up 2.9% from last year.
This execute our long term strategy of growing dividend is covered 1.9 times by adjusted It is with sadness that, in my our key brands and other added value basic earnings per share, up from 1.4 last current role of Acting sales and of reducing our costs we have year.
Looking beyond this year we propose continued to strengthen our business.
to maintain our progressive dividend Chairman, I am delivering this The pleasing financial results for the policy within a target cover range of 1.5 to years statement on behalf of year ended 31 March 2014, delivered 2.5times.
our Chairman, Anthony Fry, against the backdrop of a trading who is currently away from the environment that remains challenging, Summary demonstrate that the transformed The year ended 31 March 2014 was business forhealth reasons.
business can deliver improving returns a good one for Dairy Crest.
We have Anthony has led Dairy forshareholders.
consolidated the significant changes we Crests transformation with We have chosen not to make made last year and are benefiting from any significant acquisitions since the operating as one business.
Good progress great skill over the last four disposal of St Hubert.
We gave thorough is being made with our demineralised years and our thoughts are consideration to doing so but to date we whey project which will provide increased with him and his family at this have not identified any opportunities which stability and profit growth.
We wish him a full and could provide the attractive returns which we can achieve by continuing to invest for Richard macdonald Acting Chairman fast recovery.
growth in our existing business.
The Board 21 May 2014 believes that choosing to invest in projects such as demineralised whey production provides a better route to profitable growth and has lower execution risk.
Entering the demineralised whey powder market will alsoallow us to access new marketsand should contribute to increased stability.
Financial highlights Strategic highlights operating highlights Adjusted profit before tax up 31% to Reorganised into one business On-going growth for Cathedral City 65.3 million, including higher profits structure ahead of market from sale of surplus properties Demineralised whey project on Continued focus on costs: 25 Year end net debt at 142 million track to enhance annual profits from million annualised cost savings leaves gearing within targeted range 2015 16 by 5 million in exclusive delivered in 2013 14, with a further at 1.3 talks with one customer 20 million identified for 2014 15 Proposed final dividend payment up Move to a single spreads Strong Corporate Responsibility 3% to 15.4p manufacturing facility nearing commitment: highest UK ranked completion business by BITC Reduced pension scheme contributions from 2014 15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 11 Strategic report
