O V E RVI E W C H AI R M A N S L E T TE R A solid base on which we can build N I GEL NOR T H R I D G E Chairman Despite the challenges we faced in 2014, we have focused on making progress inour strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand.
Wehave also diversified our sources offunding, maintained the dividend andstrengthened our board.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 4 Dear Shareholder Our dividend 2014 saw the bicentenary of the Debenhams Debenhams remains a cash generative name appearing on the British high street.
business and the board has therefore At the same time it was one of the most decided to maintain the total cash dividend challenging years we have encountered at 3.4 pence per share for 2014 despite inthose 200 years.
Whilst the results lower profits.
It is our intention torebuild forthefirst half of the year were very dividend cover over time as earnings disappointing, we are clear about the increase.
The share buyback has issues that we faced and are taking decisive beendiscontinued.
As a consequence, Our board we saw a much better performance in the We welcomed Suzanne Harlow to the second half.
I am therefore confident we board in December 2013.
Suzanne has have a solid base on which we can build 20years experience with Debenhams.
Shehas held the role of Group Trading Our strategy Director since 2008 and leads the design, The board firmly believes that the four buying and merchandising functions of pillars of our strategy to build a leading thebusiness.
international, multi-channel brand Matt Smith will join the board as Chief remainthe right way to create value Financial Officer during the course of 2015 forourshareholders.
and we look forward to the benefits that Youcan see a visual representation of our hisextensive experience of international strategyon page 14.
Our customers are and multi-channel retailing will bring to attheheart, reflecting the importance ourbusiness.
200 years ofcontinuing to deliver a compelling Matt succeeds Simon Herrick who left the customer proposition across allsales business in February 2014.
During 2014 we also worked hard has done an excellent job as Acting Chief In December 2013 we celebrated the to improve the performance of our sales Financial Officer since this time, for which 200th anniversary of the Debenhams channels in the UK by making ourmultiwe extend our sincere thanks.
name appearing on the high street channel service offer more competitive and forthe very first time.
We marked the by seekingto improve the return on the UK The governance section starting on page occasion with special instore events stores by increasing sales densities.
40 provides more information on how the anda limited edition collection of International has also been at the forefront board carries out its duties.
products designed by some of of our thinking during the year as weaim to theDesigners at Debenhams.
Our people leverage our expertise from the UK into Our colleagues around the world coped other markets.
You can read more about admirably with the difficult trading this work and the progress made under conditions we saw in 2014.
During the each of the four pillars in the strategic yearwe undertook our second annual report on pages 16 and 17. engagement survey and were pleased that Our finances more people took part and that last years At the start of July we refinanced our engagement score was maintained given borrowing facilities.
We issued 225 million the challenging year faced by the business.
of seven year senior notes and refinanced On behalf of the board I offer all of our our bank funding through a 425 million people my gratitude for their hard work revolving credit facility to October 2018. and dedication in 2014 and thank them in The refinancing hasallowed us to achieve advance for their ongoing support in 2015. two goals.
First, itreduces our reliance on traditional bank funding and secondly it Nigel Northridge diversifies our sources of funding.
Over Chairman thelife of the notes we also expect to achieve a material saving in interest costscompared with the anticipated costof bank funding alone.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5
