10 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Interim dividend per share Diageo has an enviable history of entrepreneurialism 19.7p 9% that has built the leadership of our brands and business 31 December 2012: 18.1p over many generations.
Critical to our future success Final recommended dividend per share as a global consumer goods company operating in over 180 countries, is our ability to maintain that 32.0p 9% entrepreneurial spirit.
30 June 2013: 29.3p Total dividend per share 51.7p 9% Full year 2013: 47.4p Includes recommended final dividend.
This confidence in Diageos future prospects has enabled the Board to recommend a final CHAIRMANS STATEMENT: dividend of 32 pence per share, to be paid to shareholders on 2 October 2014.
This brings IN BUILDING REPUTATION, the total dividend for the year to 51.7 pence per share, an increase of 9% over the prior year.
DIAGEO STARTS FROM A Strategic progress Diageo has an enviable history of POSITION OF STRENGTH.
entrepreneurialism that has built the leadership of our brands and business over many generations.
Critical to our future success as a global consumer goods company operating in over 180 countries, is our ability to maintain that entrepreneurial spirit.
We continue to build our agility at a market level, empowering our local Ivan and the Executive Committee have businesses to act with speed and authority.
set out the clear and stretching ambition This journey was started in 2011 and to create one of the best performing, most culminated in the removal of our regional trusted and respected consumer products hub structures in Africa, Latin America companies in the world.
To deliver this and Asia this year, thus allowing for faster ambition, and with the support of your and more efficient decision making.
Board, Ivan has put in place a strategic The reorganisation programme framework to guide commercial execution announced in January will improve and the allocation of our resources.
operational efficiencies and will also drive Performance and dividend out cost.
It has identified annual savings This financial year has seen a number of of 200 million by the end of fiscal 2017. macroeconomic and one off challenges Diageo continued to expand its global impact our performance.
Cyclical weakness presence this year, and I am particularly and volatility have slowed the growth of the pleased with the progress made in achieving emerging markets, and, while growth in the a majority stake in United Spirits Limited developed markets is improving, the pace USL, through the acquisition of an Dr Franz B Humer, of economic recovery remains uneven.
Chairman We were quick to adapt to changing market This acquisition takes Diageos holding in USL and competitive dynamics, managing our to 54.78%.
cost base and shifting our organisation, Trust and respect culture and behaviours.
The business is now Trust and respect have never been more well placed to step up our performance to important for a global business.
In building drive efficient growth and consistent returns reputation Diageo starts from a position of for shareholders.
We believe that alcohol can play a positive role in society and in order to achieve this we need to continue partnering with others to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol.
As part of the United Nations UN Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 11 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Diageo share price rebased to 100 Global volume share of premium spirits Diageo share price performance Share price pence FTSE share price rebased to 100 % 300 34% 27% 250 200 150 6% 17% 6% 10% 100 Diageo Barcardi Ltd Brown-Forman Pernod Ricard Beam Inc Others 50 Source: Impact Databank, February 2014 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 charter to reduce non-communicable As Diageo grows in many parts of the world, Looking ahead The current emerging market weakness does diseases, the World Health Organization we must continue to ensure that the way we WHO has set a voluntary target of a 10% do business supports and contributes to not reduce our confidence in the long term reduction in the harmful use of alcohol by shared value for Diageo and the people growth opportunities of these markets and 2025.
We believe and societies we work with.
we continue to invest to build our brands and routes to consumer for the future.
This, we are making good progress, including Business environment importantly our efforts to consistently deliver together with Diageos enviable strengths Creating an environment, whether at a the Global Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers and the focus that Ivan and the Executive global or national level, where businesses Commitments a co-ordinated industry Committee will bring to bear, lead the Board can drive growth and prosperity is a core to approach the year ahead with confidence.
response to the WHOs call to action.
We will responsibility for governments and businesses continue to challenge ourselves and the alike.
It is particularly important for us in our Our people industry to drive large scale progress.
home market to have clarity on any issues Finally, I would like to thank every one of While we continue to focus on maintaining with the potential to add unnecessary cost our employees for their hard work during a positive role for alcohol in society, we will a challenging year.
It is the people in Diageo and complexity to our business.
Business does not forget the business fundamentals that are not like ambiguity.
As the United Kingdom who will achieve our Performance Ambition, an important part of our commitment to enters a potentially significant period and I am confident that their talents and skills international frameworks such as the UN domestically, and in relation to the EU, will enable us to build on the entrepreneurial Global Compact.
I am pleased that in this we will continue to seek the reassurances spirit of the founders of our brands and period of change for the business we have we need in areas of critical importance to ensure that, wherever we are in the world, not lost sight of maintaining the highest the future success of our business, and of the name Diageo is synonymous with standards of conduct, taking pride in our great industry.
commercial success, trust and respect.
embedding integrity in our daily business activities and in our relationships with others.
Board appointments For many, Diageo is a badge of quality: I am delighted that we have two new our name engenders trust with our suppliers, Non-Executive Director appointments to customers, consumers and other stakeholders.
the Board, effective 1 September 2014, in In addition to building a strong culture of Alan Stewart and Nicola Mendelsohn.
Alan Dr Franz B Humer, governance and ethics, earning the trust of is Chief Financial Officer Designate of Tesco.
Chairman our stakeholders requires us to make positive He has extensive financial experience in retail impacts at each stage of our value chain.
We as Chief Financial Officer at Marks & Spencer do this by supporting small scale farmers and Group Finance Director at WH Smith.
growing our grains or by supporting women He will bring to the Board a strong track and men working in the hospitality industry record in accountancy and financial selling our brands.
Beyond this, we work to management together with experience in protect resources such as water which we retail, travel and banking.
Nicola Mendelsohn and our local communities need.
In addition is currently Vice President, EMEA of Facebook to meeting stakeholder expectations, this Inc. and has senior experience at the work also brings commercial benefits, forefront of digital marketing and including securing resources and raw communications.
Nicolas admirable record materials, recruiting and retaining a talented in championing women in business will also and diverse workforce, creating operational be an inspiration to our people and the way efficiencies and ultimately maintaining that we work at Diageo.
our licence to operate around the world.
