02 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Delivering strong returns to shareholders 16% p. a.
The objective for TSR growth is to The fundamental principle As previously announced, I will be stepping deliver upper quartile performance relative of the Board is to focus down from the Board immediately after to the FTSE mid-250 Index Group FTSEthe AGM on 21 January 2015.
I joined the 250 and over the last ten years, Diplomas on consistently strong Board in 2002 and became Chairman in TSR has grown at a compound rate of cash flow.
2004, following the retirement of the late 24% p. a. compared with median growth Christopher Thomas who had previously of 13% p. a. in the FTSE-250.
been Chief Executive and then Chairman of the Company for over 30 years.
His guiding I believe that this sustained performance John Rennocks objective for the Company was to focus on demonstrates the Boards commitment Chairman consistently strong cash flow which would to aclearly defined and well executed fund the Groups growth strategy and strategy, robust business model and deliver healthy and growing dividends: this relentless focus on strong cash generation.
has remained a fundamental principle of This has helped Diploma develop into a the Board during my Chairmanship of the successful and resilient business capable Company over the last ten years.
of delivering strong shareholder value on a consistent basis and I am confident that The Groups strong cash flow is generated it will continue to do so for many years.
from businesses which focus on essential products and services within specialised Results market segments and deliver sustainable Group revenues increased in 2014 by 7% and attractive margins, through the quality to 305.8m 2013: 285.5m despite the of customer service, depth of technical significant strengthening of UK sterling support and value adding activities.
It is against most major currencies in which this business model that has provided the the Group operates.
75% of the Group with the resources over ten years to Groups revenues generated outside the invest ca.
160m of our internally generated UK, the 17.7m reduction in revenues from cash in value enhancing acquisitions to currency translation more than offset the support our growth strategy and deliver contribution to revenue of 15.4m from strong shareholder value.
acquisitions completed during the year.
The success in pursuing this strategy On an underlying basis, which is after canbe measured against the Groups two adjusting for acquisitions and for currency principal corporate objectives of growth effects on translation, Group revenues in adjusted earnings per share EPS increased by 8% with each of the Groups and total shareholder return TSR.
The business Sectors reporting strong target for adjusted EPS is to deliver strong underlying growth during the year.
double-digit growth over the business cycle and since 2004 the Groups adjusted Adjusted operating margins remained EPS has grown at a compound rate of robust at 18.5% 2013: 19.0% and adjusted Adjusted EPS growth TSR growth Dividend growth 20% p. a.
Gross margins in in the final dividend of 8% to 11.6p per I have very much appreciated the the Canadian and Australian healthcare share 2013: 10.7p.
Subject to shareholder consistently high levels of service, businesses were impacted by transactional approval at the AGM, this dividend will be performance and hard work that our currency effects, but these were partly paid on 28 January 2015 to shareholders employees deliver year after year.
I believe mitigated by tight control of operating on the register at 28 November 2014. that this is largely due to our decentralised costs and the benefits arising from the organisational structure which allows Groups recent Investment for Growth The total dividend per share for the our employees to understand their programme which is now substantially year will be 17.0p 2013: 15.7p which responsibilities and gives them space to complete.
The operate efficiently and effectively.
This dividend is well covered by adjusted provides enormous strength to the Diploma Adjusted profit before tax increased by 3% EPS at 2.1 times, in line with the Boards businesses and helps explain the Groups to 56.2m 2013: 54.3m and adjusted objective of targeting towards a two times sustained success.
I wish to sincerely thank earnings per share, helped by a lower level of cover.
Dividends have increased all our employees for their tremendous hard effective tax rate, increased by 4% to 36.1p progressively in each of the last 15 years work and for all they have achieved during 2013: 34.8p.
and represent a total of almost 100m my period with the Company.
of cash distributed to shareholders over The Group generated strong free cash flow tenyears.
Outlook of 37.8m 2013: 31.6m, despite a larger The Groups performance this year has investment in working capital, reflecting Governance benefited from greater confidence in its both much lower capital expenditure of The Board and its Committees have principal markets with strong underlying 2.2m 2013: 4.6m and a smaller cash worked effectively throughout the year, revenue growth in each of the Groups contribution of 1.8m 2013: 4.7m to benefiting from a stable year, following Sectors.
Given the strong comparatives and the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
a number of years of changes as we the uncertain macroeconomic backdrop, developed and refreshed the Board.
the Board expects growth to trend this year With the acquisition environment The work of these Committees and the towards our target GDP plus rates.
improving, the Group invested 16.5m key achievements this year are set out 2013: 2.2m in acquisitions during the in the Corporate Governance section of The Group has a strong and proven financial year.
Shortly after the year end, the Annual Report & Accounts.
business model, together with a good the Group acquired 80% of TPD, which geographic spread of activities, strong extends the Healthcare business into I should like to thank all my colleagues free cash flow and balance sheet.
With Ireland and the UK: this acquisition has on the Board, past and present, who an improving acquisition environment taken the acquisition spend to ca.
26m have always been both supportive and and a good pipeline of opportunities, in the 2014 calendar year.
Their wise counsel prospects for acquisition activity in 2015 and experience has made a substantial are encouraging.
This provides the Board At 30 September 2014 the Groups net contribution to the success of the Group.
with confidence that further progress will cash funds increased by 2.0m to 21.3m be made in the new financial year.
after distributing 18.2m 2013: 17.4m Finally, I am delighted that in John to shareholders during the year.
Nicholas, the Company has a highly John Rennocks successful businessman with broad and Chairman Dividends relevant experience, who I am confident 17 November 2014 The strong balance sheet and free cash will chair the Group well on the next stage flow, supported by a good set of results has of its journey and to further success.
