Directors Report Business Overview Chairmans Statement Your Group has made considerable progress this year in In streamlining the Group and disposing of non-core businesses delivering our key priorities.
We also announced a proposed we did incur non-underlying charges and with other items merger with Carphone Warehouse Group plc Carphone to these totalled 186.0 million, resulting in a total loss after tax take us on the next phase of growth.
However, underlying Group profit before tax of 166.2 million was a significant improvement year on year On top of this, the fundamentals of the business have become and enabled us to enjoy another year of cash generation.
Customers are increasingly recognising our While net cash was positive in the year we remain focused on improved offer and our financial position continues to be reducing the financial leverage of the Group to improve the strengthened through good cash generation.
balance sheet as well as returns for shareholders.
I am confident that the Group is now in a better position than This puts the Group in a strong and healthy financial position it has been for a number of years, and I am again pleased from which to embark on our next phase of growth.
With the that these actions are being reflected in the overall value of products we sell becoming increasingly connected, the internet our shares.
of things is upon us and rapidly evolving.
With this in mind one of our objectives has been to bring a market leading mobile The Group is now focused on those markets where it has a and connectivity offer to our customers.
While we have good leadership position.
Sebastian James and his team have ably positions in the Nordics and Greece, we need to strengthen negotiated transactions that have seen us exit from Turkey, our position in the UK & Ireland.
The proposed merger with Italy, Central Europe and the pure play business of PIXmania.
Carphone, if completed, will bring two market leading All operations which we couldnt see a clear economic path to businesses together with an unrivalled offer for this new leadership and which were a drag on the overall performance connected world for customers, not just in products and of the Group.
We have also put our UK & Ireland, Nordics and connectivity, but in the great service platforms we both have.
Greek operations on the road to delivering a sustainable Documentation giving details of the proposed merger and business for the long term.
Our suppliers, customers and seeking your approval is being sent out on or around 26 June.
colleagues all recognise the improvements we have made and we are leading the field in how a specialist electrical retailing During the year the Group continued to raise money for various and services company should operate.
charities in the countries in which our businesses operate.
In the UK, donations totalling 233,800 were made including 150,000 In the UK & Ireland, Katie Bickerstaffe and her team have to Children in Need.
In the Nordics, we continued our support delivered another strong performance with market share gains for the Red Cross Water for Life project with donations totalling and improvement in profitability of the division, which grew NOK 1.9 million.
This reflects the hard work being done that continues to deliver an improved offer for customers which is The Board, through its various committees, continues to ensure being recognised with another year of record advocacy scores.
that the requisite controls are in place across the business and Katie and her team are now exploring new ways to excite and that the highest possible principles of corporate governance are engage with customers with trials of new store formats and adhered to.
new categories, such as the connected world trials in five large stores.
I look forward to seeing how this division delivers We can all reflect on what I believe has been a successful year another year of progress in the year ahead.
for the Group and I would like to thank all our colleagues and congratulate the leadership team for their part in delivering this.
Our Nordics business, which has been a stalwart in our group I look forward to the exciting developments the year ahead will for a number of years, continues to deliver a solid set of results.
In his first full year Jaan Ivar Semlitsch has consolidated Elkjps postion in each of its markets, faced into some tough competitive positions and embraced being a part of the Group that will see all our businesses benefit properly from shared expertise.
We have, during the year, rolled our KNOWHOW services into the Nordics delivering a market leading range of services to Elkjps customers.
With new customer measurement tools, the team is responding dynamically to John Allan customer needs with improving satisfaction scores being Chairman delivered.
The economic environment in Greece remains tough, but we did see some modest signs of stabilisation towards the end of the financial year.
Kotsovolos has a great reputation amongst customers and is benefiting from market share gains.
As a result the business is well placed to benefit from any improvement in the Greek economy.
Dixons Retail plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
