CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FURTHER PROGRESS AND AN INCREASE IN DIVIDENDS Our business in Europe reported doubleGood progress has been made against The Group has made good digit sales growth in local terms, benefiting oursustainability agenda and we were progress in growing sales, from more buoyant markets in the early pleased that our determination to profits and cash during the part of the year.
We also reported good reduceour environmental impact was growth in the Americas and Asia.
Market recognised with a fourth consecutive rating year while continuing to conditions have been changeable and we improvement from the Carbon Disclosure develop new products and have seen a more cautious attitude among Project.
We also remain a member of the customers in many markets over the FTSE4Good index.
investing in further expanding second half of our year.
Earlier in the year, Philip Ruffles, who was a We are pleased with the success of non-executive Director, and Garry Havens, ourlatest i-Tech product range, which an executive Director, both stepped down provides customers with class-leading from the Board.
I thank them for their performance, while our research and contribution to the Group over many development teams are busy working years.
In November, we announced the on further product innovations.
The appointment of two new Board members, aftermarket business continues to grow Sucheta Govil and Rachel Hurst.
Sucheta in line with our expectations.
joins us as a non-executive Director and has a background of senior roles in marketing Our latest full-colour digital label press has and significant experience in Asia.
Rachel been well received by customers and we isthe executive Director responsible for are seeing increasing adoption of digital Group operations, including manufacturing, printing technology among label converters.
Activity levels among our sales teams, and the increase in sales of N-Series digital label The Groups global workforce is more than presses this year, give us confidence in the 2,300 strong.
I would like to thank them, our potential for continued growth.
distribution partners, and our suppliers for their contribution to our continuing success.
Over the last year, we have committed capital to a number of expansion projects.
Our balance sheet remains robust and our We commissioned our new factory in cash generation increased our year-end net India, purchased land and started groundcash position to 40.1 million.
The Board is work on a new factory in the UK, which proposing a final dividend of 14.76 pence, will primarily serve the European and making a total of 22.74 pence for the year American markets, and approved the as a whole, an increase of 5 per cent.
building of a new factory in China to meet our expansion plans in Asia.
We have provided new and expanded demonstration and laboratory facilities for our digital printing business.
4 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Group has had a good year anddelivered results in line with our expectations.
We continue to invest in research and development and in growing the capability and capacity of our digital printing business.
However, we remain cautious about 2015.
As announced in our Interim Statement, the investments we are making, coupled with uncertain market conditions, mean we expect results in 2015 to be at a broadly similar level to this year.
Our strong product range and our investments in developing our capabilities mean we remain optimistic about the Groups longer-term prospects.
Peter Byrom Chairman 15 December 2014 m 40.1 Year-end net cash position p 14.76 Final dividend Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 5
