02 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chairmans introduction In perspective The last year serves as a stark reminder of factors intheexternal environment which cause uncertainty forour business.
During the year, regulatory uncertainty and much weaker commodity markets have proved challenging.
It is, however, our job tonavigate through such uncertainties and to that endIam able to report good operational performance and solid progress with our biomass transformation during 2014.
Back in 2012, we declared our intention Earnings and dividend Our people to convert three of our six generating 1 Our earnings EBITDA for 2014 As always my final say is about the units to burn sustainable biomass at 229 million were broadly level people at Drax.
I have enjoyed getting in place of coal by the end of 2016. with those in 2013 230 million.
to know many during the last nine years The transformation work is now well In accordance with our dividend policy, and I have valued the time I have spent advanced with two units converted and the Board proposes a final dividend in with them.
What is common throughout the third scheduled to be converted in respect of 2014 of 7.2 pence per share, the Group is the unfaltering support and the time frame indicated above.
This would give commitment of everyone.
My sincere Our transformation extends beyond the total dividends for the year of 48 million thanks and very best wishes go to all conversion works at Drax Power Station, 2013: 71 million.
The benefit of a presence in the Board changes upstream supply market is significant, in the southern US our two wood pellet As announced in September 2014, plants are in commissioning and our port Ishall be retiring from the Board at the Charles Berry facility is pellet-ready.
Companys Annual General Meeting Chairman this coming April.
I have served on the Downstream the continued attraction of 23 February 2015 Board for some nine years and I have renewable power amongst businesses been privileged to be its Chairman keen to meet their own sustainability for the last seven.
During that time commitments has seen our retail sales Drax has seen tremendous change, increase.
Our commitment to becoming from a business with purely electricity a leading provider of sustainable power is generation interests to a growing Group as strong as it has always been.
with interests along the electricity and We offer a source of power which is biomass supply chain.
sustainable, secure and reliable, costIt has been an exciting journey for effective and low carbon.
We continue everyone involved and I have every to see future value for our business and confidence that the Group has a our shareholders in our biomass strategy, successful future ahead of it.
I am and we are on track to deliver that.
delighted in the choice of my successor, We also take very seriously our Phil Cox CBE.
Phil has significant responsibility to the communities where experience of the power sector and our operations are based.
This is well isnostranger to the boardroom.
illustrated by our visitor programme at We have an effective Board with good Drax Power Station where we hosted and complementary skills, knowledge more than 12,500 visitors in 2014. and experience across all directors, both executive and non-executive, and Phil is well placed to lead them.
I wish him and the Group every success.
1 EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts and the one-off settlement of CESP in 2014.
03 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Charles Berry Chairman Faced with challenges in the external environment, it is our job to navigate through uncertainties and control the controllable.
Explore more detail elsewhere in this report Read more: Operational and financial performance 2645 Read more: Governance 5896 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
