CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Geoff Cooper Chairman Since the year end there have been some important changes to Given the continuing strong business performance, the Board our Board reflecting our on-going succession planning.
We have is recommending a 30% increase in the final dividend to 15.0p announced the departure of Nick Wharton, our Chief Executive per share 2013: 11.5p, bringing the total Ordinary dividend for since 2010, and the resumption of the Chief Executive role by the year to 20.0p 2013: 16.0p : this is in addition to a special Will Adderley, who has been our Executive Deputy Chairman dividend of 25.0p per share 50.7m paid last October.
We over the last few years.
We also previously announced the remain committed to delivering appropriate cash returns to appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, Andy Harrison, shareholders through both our Ordinary dividend and, where who joined the Board with effect from September.
Andy is appropriate, additional returns of surplus cash.
currently Chief Executive of Whitbread plc and was formerly Chief Executive of easyJet plc.
He brings a wealth of experience Looking ahead, we will continue to invest in a range of exciting across a variety of consumer-facing sectors.
development initiatives that will strengthen our brand and increase the scale of our business through both new stores and multiI would like to thank Nick for the excellent job he has done in channel operations.
We remain confident in the Dunelm proposition creating a strong operating platform for the business.
Looking and look forward to further growth in the years ahead.
ahead, the Board is confident that Will, with his unique skill set, is the right person to lead the business through its next phase of growth.
Geoff Cooper Chairman Across the Group, I am pleased to report another year of strong progress.
Our management team has continued to focus on 11 September 2014 driving our well-established strategy for developing the business and building the Groups future, as well as keeping tight control on day to day operations.
As a result, Dunelm has again posted good growth in revenue and profits in the latest financial year, accompanied by further strong free cash flow, while also investing for continuing growth in the years ahead.
6 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
