Chairmans statement Continuing to deliver John Barton Non-Executive Chairman DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to report that your Company has delivered record profits for the fourth year in a row with profit before tax growing by 21.5% to 581 million.
We have continued to work with the Airports Commission Customers easyJet continues to be focused on primary airports in our on future runway capacity in the UK, and have focused on assessing which of the options it has put forward will core markets and our low cost base enables us to offer low fares to our customers.
During the year we have continued deliver the best outcome for easyJet and our passengers.
In particular, we are looking closely at the proposal for to expand and make improvements to our network, making travel easy and affordable for our customers.
This makes further runway capacity at Heathrow, which we believe could potentially offer an attractive proposition for us to our business model uniquely positioned to deliver what customers look for when choosing an airline.
bring our operating model to the airport.
Opportunities People We continue to see profitable and time-sensitive I would like to thank all our people for their continued hard opportunities for growth in our core markets.
The Board work, passion and focus on customer service which has therefore decided to exercise the remaining 35 options and driven the strong performance in the year.
Operationally purchase rights over current generation aircraft for delivery we have had a very busy summer and I would like to thank between 2015 and 2018.
These aircraft will augment our pilots, cabin crew and ground staff for continuing to easyJets highly cash generative model.
The Board will deliver the friendly and efficient service our customers have continue to keep the balance sheet under review and come to expect.
intends to make further returns of capital to shareholders During the year, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth and Franois in the coming years as surplus funds accumulate.
They are both experienced in Returns to shareholders the aviation industry and bring a welcome European view to the Board.
Just after the year end David Bennett and In light of the continued strong financial performance of the Company and confidence in the future, the Board Professor Rigas Doganis will retire from the Board having both served nine years.
They have seen many changes in has decided to increase the payout ratio for the ordinary dividend from one-third of profit after tax to 40% of profit their time and have played a full part in making easyJet the success it is today.
Many thanks to both of them.
The Board is therefore proposing an ordinary dividend of 45.4 pence per share, an increase of 35.5% Conclusion over the ordinary dividend paid last year.
easyJet has built the leading business model in European short-haul aviation.
The Companys pan-European network, Regulatory environment The regulatory environment continues to have a significant cost advantage at the primary airports it flies from, focus on customer service and capital allocation mean that impact on easyJet.
However, this year we have seen progress at Gatwick, where we have reached a long-term easyJet is well placed to continue to deliver sustainable growth and returns for shareholders.
agreement with the airport that provides a good base for growth and savings over the next seven years.
We have also seen governments start to reconsider how airports are regulated in France and Switzerland.
John Barton Non-Executive Chairman 8 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014
