ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 06 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS REPORT Chairmans Report Welcome to the 2014 Electrocomponents Annual Report.
search functions on our website and the initial steps taken to build a global offer by developing a consistent global range with strategic suppliers such as TE Connectivity and Omron.
We have an ambitious plan, and the scale and complexity of what we have set out to do over the coming years is significant.
As the strategy is implemented we will ensure we learn lessons and adapt our plans accordingly.
The Board regularly reviews our overall strategy, business plan and progress on implementation.
We remain confident the Group is set on the right course to grow market share and improve financial performance over the medium-term.
Trading performance The Group grew underlying sales adjusted for trading days and currency movements by 2% over the past year.
Group underlying sales growth improved from around 1% in the first half of the year to around 3% in the second half, partially This annual report is our first since new reporting regulations reflecting improving global markets, as illustrated by the have required the inclusion of a strategic report and increase in manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices confirmation by the Directors that the report, taken as a PMIs in many developed markets.
All our International whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The content of regions contributed to this improvement, most notably this strategic report is not significantly different to content Continental Europe, where we benefited from improving that has been presented in previous years, though we PMIs and took market share from our numerous smaller have enhanced our reporting of key performance indicators competitors.
This continues a long-standing trend of share KPIs page 20 and the principal risks and uncertainties our gains by our International business: we estimate that over the business faces page 28.
We have made greater use of crossperiod 2006 to 2013 around half of our International compound referencing and signposting between various sections of the annual sales growth of 6% was attributable to market share report to make it more cohesive.
We have also tried to use gains.
clear and concise language and to improve the transparency Our strategy is focused on growing customer numbers, of our reporting.
We hope that this will help shareholders eCommerce sales and sales of our Famous For product assess the Companys past performance, its main objectives range comprising our electronics and automation and control and strategies going forward, and the key risks it faces in the categories.
All three of these operational measures grew pursuit of these.
faster than total Group sales.
More information on these, and Strategy and medium-term business plan our other KPIs, can be found on page 20.
Last year I reported on the changes we had made to the Underlying sales growth of 2% contributed to headline profit Groups organisation and strategy, which are designed to before tax increasing by 7% to 101 million, reflecting a stable deliver improved financial performance for shareholders over gross margin and growth in operating costs at constant the medium-term.
Headline profit before tax growth also In the past 12 months the new organisation has bedded benefited by around 4 million from additional trading days down, the plan is being implemented and good early progress and favourable currency movements, without which growth in against our strategic priorities is being delivered.
Details of headline profit before tax would have been 3%.
these are in the Our Strategy section page 12 and Group Chief Executives Review page 14.
I would also like to highlight the significant strides made in rolling out our global systems platform across Asia Pacific, the improvements to Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 07 Our business model is highly cash-generative and Group During the year the Audit Committee oversaw an audit headline free cash flow during the year remained strong at tender process which has resulted in the intention to change 58 million compared with 56 million in the prior year, auditors, subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual even after the planned increase in capital expenditure from General Meeting.
The Board also reviewed its approach to risk 27 million to 36 million required to deliver our strategy.
management, resulting in an even greater focus on those risks Free cash flow as a percentage of sales at 4.6% was within which could have a large impact on shareholder value.
the parameters set out in our medium-term performance There is more detail in the Corporate Governance section on framework, as is the Groups return on capital employed of pages 42 to 91 than in the past, most notably in the Directors 21%.
This remains well ahead of our weighted average cost Remuneration Report where we have clearly set out how our of capital for more information on these KPIs please refer to remuneration policy supports the business strategy.
We hope page 20. that these changes will help readers understand the work of the various Board committees and the role they play in Dividend promoting the long-term success of the Group.
The Board is proposing an unchanged final dividend for the year of 6.75 pence per share.
This will be paid on 29 July 2014 Corporate responsibility to shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014.
As a result, As members of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate the total dividend for the year will be 11.75 pence per share, responsibility is integral to our business.
Our greatest focus resulting in headline earnings dividend cover of 1.4 times.
is on our employees, through ensuring a safe and healthy The Board continues to believe that the business has working environment and engaging them fully in our business significant opportunities to invest for growth at attractive strategy and operations.
The Board provides clear leadership returns, as encapsulated in the Groups medium-term in both these areas.
We are also strongly committed to being business plan.
As previously stated, over time and as earnings good citizens, playing a full part in the communities in which increase, the Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend we operate and controlling our impact on the environment.
policy whilst increasing headline earnings dividend cover More information on our approach to corporate responsibility towards two times.
Governance Employees The Board and its committees have worked effectively The success of the Group in its ability to grow and achieve its throughout the year.
The Board is closely involved with the ambitions is totally dependent on the talents and efforts of development of Group strategy, as well as scrutiny of progress our employees.
As a Board, whenever we visit our operations, towards its implementation and ongoing performance.
either together or individually, we are always delighted at the enthusiasm, commitment and dedication shown by our An external, independent evaluation of the Boards structure, colleagues, even through the period of change and uncertainty composition and performance, carried out in autumn 2013, many have experienced in recent years.
I am delighted to concluded that the Board works well, is engaged and see the way our employees have embraced these changes committed and has broad diversity.
Recommendations on and engaged with the new strategy, and it is pleasing to see improvements to target setting and review, succession that the most recent employee engagement survey reported planning and competitor analysis have been implemented.
an improvement in employee engagement.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them all.
After five years, Adrian Auer is standing down from the Board.
His extensive experience has been of great benefit to the Board and we will miss him.
I would like to thank him for his Peter Johnson valued contribution.
Recruitment of a successor is underway.
Chairman The Board is fully committed to showing leadership in 22 May 2014 fostering diversity of gender, race and nationality throughout all levels of the business, and ensures it considers candidates from all such backgrounds and irrespective of physical disability when appointing new Board members.
