Chairmans statement After my first year as Chairman, I am pleased Balance sheet Andrew Duff to report that 2014 has been another year of One of the Groups core strengths is its strong Chairman sales and earnings growth for Elementis.
Since balance sheet, supported by positive cash becoming Chairman I have enjoyed getting to flow generation.
In 2014 this was once again know the Group through visits to our various demonstrated with the Groups net cash sites around the globe, meeting our people and position increasing from $54.1 million at the end engaging with the management team and my of 2013 to $64.2 million at the end of 2014.
I have found the Group to be was achieved despite financing a robust capital well managed, with a clear strategy and people expenditure programme and an additional one around the world who are hardworking, talented time UK pension contribution.
Under our current and enthusiastic about the Group and its dividend policy, this increase in net cash results prospects.
in a similar increase in the special dividend.
Once again the deficit on Group retirement In 2014, Group sales were $790.4million, an plans, under IAS 19, improved in 2014, going improvement of 2 per cent over the previous from $99.3 million at the end of 2013 to $65.8 year, largely driven by the further progress million at the end of 2014.
The improvement was achieved in Specialty Products while Chromium largely the result of favourable asset returns and and Surfactants delivered sales and cash Company contributions.
To read more on our objectives, UU generation in line with their respective strategies.
strategies and business model Group operating profit for the year was Dividends go to page 6 $150.1 million compared to $146.6 million in The Board is continuing with the dividend the previous year, whilst the Groups operating policy introduced in 2012, which is to pay margin remained stable at 19 per cent.
Diluted approximately one third of earnings, before earnings per share for the year improved by exceptional items, each year in a combination of 8 per cent to 24.8cents.
In addition, a special dividend is paid each year of up to 50 per cent The Group is recording a number of pension, of the net cash balance at the end of the year, tax and legacy items under the heading provided there are no immediate investment Exceptional items in this years income plans for that cash.
Consequently, the Board is statement.
These items are discussed more fully recommending a final dividend for 2014 of 5.75 in the Finance report on page 12.
After taking cents per share 2013: 5.50 cents and a special account of these items, Group operating profit dividend of 6.95 cents per share or $32.1 million for the year was $156.4 million, compared to 2013: 5.86 cents or $27.1 million.
These will be $144.9million in the previous year, and diluted paid on 22 May 2015, in pounds sterling at an earnings per share was 37.7cents, compared exchange rate of 1.00:$1.5429 equivalent to a to 23.0 cents in 2013. sterling amount of 8.2313 pence per share, to shareholders on the register on 24 April 2015.
This brings the total dividends for the year to 15.40 cents per share 2013: 13.93cents, representing an increase of 11per cent over the previous year.
I have enjoyed getting to know the Group through visits to our various sites around the globe, meeting our people and engaging with the management team and my fellow directors.
I have found the Group to be well managed, with a clear strategy and people around the world who are hardworking, talented and enthusiastic about the Group and its prospects.
before exceptional items 2 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Health, safety and the environment Governance Since becoming Chairman, it has been The Board considers that it has applied all gratifying to learn that the Group is achieving the principles and provisions of the Corporate high standards of performance, compared Governance Code 2012 version in 2014, with to the industry, in this important area of our one exception on audit tenders explained on business and has developed a culture page 28.
Further information about this and throughout the organisation that recognises other aspects of our governance arrangements that zero incidents must be the ultimate goal.
are set out in the Corporate governance report As such, lessons learned from even the most on page 28. minor incidents are used to continuously improve our processes and activities, ensuring People that the protection of our employees and the The Groups continued success is due in no environment remains a high priority.
small part to the hard work, dedication and skill of its people and I would therefore like to give Board changes them my sincere thanks on behalf of the Board.
As previously announced, Ian Brindle and Kevin Matthews retired as Board members on Outlook 15 December and 31 October 2014 respectively.
As the new Chairman, I have inherited a Group Both Ian and Kevin were key members of with a clear and ambitious strategy that focuses the Board since their appointments in 2005. on profitable growth, attractive returns on capital Kevin served as Chairman of the Remuneration and shareholder value.
These are all themes Committee from April 2008 to September 2013, that I wholly support and the Board is fully while Ian served as Chairman of the Audit engaged in helping the Group to deliver on this Committee, Senior Independent Director and, strategy.
The quality of our existing businesses, more recently, Chairman of the Board.
On behalf combined with its strong cash flow generation of the Board, I would like to thank both of them and balance sheet, ensures that we have both for their dedication and support during their the platform and the flexibility to make progress tenure as Board members.
and to pursue profitable opportunities, both organic and inorganic as they arise.
To replace Ian and Kevin, I am delighted to welcome Nick Salmon and Steve Good to the Board as from 20 October 2014.
Both Nick and Steve have impressive backgrounds as successful executives and directors and I look Andrew Duff forward to working closely with them in support Chairman of the Groups continuing success.
