Chairmans Statement I am pleased to present our results for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
Through 2014 the Company has continued to make steady progress, resulting in an increase in like-for-like net income of 1.4% for the full year.
Robert Walker The progress the Company has made, together with the Dividend refinancing exercise relating to the bank facilities and the 2018 In the near-term we intend to use excess cash flow to fund corporate bonds that completed on 7 October 2014, provides business growth in order to generate value for shareholders us with a platform to review the longer term direction of the by sustaining the operational progress we have seen over the business, continue our operational improvements, further last year, and therefore the Board believes it is not appropriate reduce debt and generate value for shareholders.
to resume the payment of dividends at this time.
Profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was Board of directors maintained at the same level as last year at 121 million.
We announced in November 2013 the appointment of Simon Growth in like-for-like net income was achieved in each quarter Townsend as Chief Executive Officer CEO with effect of the year which is a testament to our continued focus on from 6 February 2014 and Simon seamlessly transitioned driving through initiatives which support our publicans and from Chief Operating Officer to CEO, reducing the number ultimately enhance our income.
While the economy generally of executives to two.
We welcomed Adam Fowle as a nonhas shown some signs of strengthening, the consumer executive director on 6 February 2014.
Adam has brought recovery remains fragile but steps we have taken in previous to the Board extensive experience of customer service and years to grow the business are beginning to come through strategic skills and is already providing excellent advice and so that we are cautiously optimistic that our improving trend support to our commercial teams and insight into alternative will continue.
I am also able to report good progress on the Companys Employees and publicans debt and balance sheet issues.
The business continues to Our engaged and hard-working employees and publicans proactively manage its debt profile: a partial refinancing of are critical to our success.
The Board is pleased with the the 2018 corporate bonds and the introduction of a new results of employee engagement activities, culminating in an revolving bank facility was completed on 7 October 2014 to excellent 92% response rate to our employee engagement help smooth and extend the debt maturity profile and reduce survey undertaken in the year which concluded that four out the costs of borrowings.
Going forward we plan to scale back of five of our employees are highly engaged in their work and the asset disposal programme which has been a feature of the business, and delighted that our publicans continue to the last few years and focus on disposals of underperforming include award winners.
I would like to thank them all for their assets to deliver proceeds to invest in the retained estate hard work during the past year.
rather than to pay down debt.
This is a real turning point for the business and an opportunity to move towards achieving Outlook EBITDA growth.
We currently expect to generate around We ended the 2013 financial year with an improving trend in 60 million in the coming year from disposals of properties our trading performance and maintained that through 2014. which we do not consider can deliver value to the business We do not underestimate the fragility in market conditions and plan to invest approximately 70 million in our retained but acknowledge signs of recovery and the improving trends assets, increasingly targeting growth projects that can deliver in our own business.
We are pleased that for the first seven incremental returns.
weeks of the new financial year we have continued to deliver like-for-like net income growth in line with our objectives for The trend of debt reduction has continued and in 2014 we the year.
reduced total debt by a further 117 million, with total net debt at the year end now 2.4 billion.
While debt reduction R M Walker will continue, it is no longer the priority use of excess cash.
Chairman 17 November 2014 02 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
