COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER Dear Shareholder, A further notable achievement during The required regulatory and governance the year was the transition to a new assurances are provided throughout this I am pleased to report that, as organisational structure, operating report.
The Board has received regular anticipated, Essentra achieved with three geographical regions and updates on the various legislative and its Vision 2015 strategic objectives four Strategic Business Units.
No governance-related developments in 2014, with balanced profitable organisational change is without its which occurred during the year.
As the organic growth complemented challenges, but the greater resulting Company increases in size, complexity by value-adding transactions.
co-ordination has established a strong and geographical reach, this brings more foundation for further development compliance requirements and challenges, of the Groups operations in both against a background of changing existing and new product categories legislation and regulation along with and geographies.
increased enforcement action by relevant authorities.
The Board is committed As the end of Vision 2015 approached, to maintaining the highest standards the Board met during the year to discuss of governance.
and agree a new five-year strategy called Drive for 2020, details of which can Audit Committee be found on the Companys website The work of the Audit Committee has www.
This is a clear and continued to focus on the integrity of focused strategy to maintain the growth financial reporting, and the oversight of and momentum of Essentra.
the risk management process and internal controls across the Group.
The latest Risk attitude governance requirements provide for The Board continues to focus on strategy the Committee to give a more detailed and sets the performance targets for the assessment of the key matters under Group.
The Executive management team consideration and the potential impact is empowered to deliver those targets, on the financial statements for the year.
through appropriate levels of delegated authority and support.
During the year Remuneration Committee the Board reviewed the risk attitude for The Committees task is to incentivise the the Group, and maintained its focus Executive team to deliver the Companys on ensuring the appropriate balance of success while setting rewards taking the risk and reward in the Companys pursuit views of investors into account.
The Drive of its strategic objectives.
for 2020 strategy underscores the need to attract, retain and motivate the team to Board responsibilities deliver the new objectives.
The Committee The rigorous monitoring of financial and ensures that the Companys practices operational performance has remained and incentives are appropriate and that fundamental to the fulfilment of the there is a clear alignment with the interests Boards responsibilities during the year.
Indeed, the high levels The pace of development of the Group of share ownership required of the Group remains founded on strong governance, Leadership Team, illustrate the Boards based on transparency and integrity driven commitment to that alignment.
by an effective Board, with appropriate internal controls and a comprehensive Nomination Committee understanding of risk.
The Committee continues its work, having proper regard to the benefits of diversity, Code compliance to ensure that the composition of the I am pleased to confirm that the Group Board continues to be appropriate for complied throughout the year with the the Company as it focuses on the delivery UK Corporate Governance Code 2012. of its Drive for 2020 strategic objectives.
48 DIRECTORS REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM While the Committee primarily devotes All Board members were requested to I regret to report that Paul Dreschler its attention to Board succession, the complete an online questionnaire will be leaving the Board after the 2015 Board has continued to focus on reviewing addressing the performance of the Board AGM following nearly 10 years service.
the quality of Executive management and and its Committees, the Chairman and Paul joined on the establishment of the the processes for finding and developing the individual Directors.
The anonymity Company in 2005, and served as the a diverse, mobile and international talent of all respondents was ensured throughout Senior Independent Non-Executive Director base.
Additional resources have been the process in order to promote the open and Chairman of the Remuneration made available to pursue this objective, and candid exchange of views.
Committee until the AGM in 2014.
I am with the implementation of an improved grateful to Paul for his considerable global talent management system.
The review concluded that all members contribution to the development of the felt that the high performance of the Company for many years and valued Core values and behaviours Board continued to successfully drive the support to me in my role as Chairman.
I strongly believe that good governance Companys growth, and provided a clear As previously reported Terry Twigger, is founded on the core values and focus on the challenges facing the Board was appointed as the Senior Independent behaviours established by the Board and in its establishment of future strategic Non-Executive Director following the communicated throughout the Group.
objectives and its oversight of their delivery.
The Company has a strong culture of high standards of business ethics based on Employee engagement Governance agenda clear principles.
The Boards participation I visited a number of Essentra facilities In summary, as the Company continues in the Companys compliance training overseas during the year, including its strong growth, we have made excellent programmes, and its commitment to the operations in India and the US.
I have progress in response to the increasing development of new governance policies also been able to meet with a number demands of the governance agenda, both and practices, serves to ensure that the of management teams to discover first internally and externally.
Good governance tone from the top is clearly understood hand how the changes to the Companys is a cornerstone of a successful company.
organisational structure have been Internal controls and reporting continue implemented and what effect they have to be strengthened, in order to establish As the Group continues to grow in size and had on the business.
In addition, I was a framework of policies and processes complexity, one of the greatest challenges pleased to attend the official opening and management systems to support facing the Board is to ensure that we have of our new purpose-built manufacturing its governance efforts which apply globally in place the right people, culture and facility in Newport, UK.
and are fully compatible with the delivery processes to exploit fully the opportunities of long-term shareholder value.
for further balanced growth, and to I am always greatly impressed by the hard manage effectively the risks to which work and enthusiasm of my colleagues the business is exposed.
wherever I travel in the world and would like JEFF HARRIS to thank them for this commitment.
I would Chairman Board evaluation also like to welcome to the Group all new 20 February 2015 It is essential that the Company has a fully employees from our recent acquisitions.
engaged and committed Board with an appropriate mix of skills, experience and Board changes knowledge, which is capable of engaging With the appointment of two new in positive and constructive debate to meet Non-Executive Directors during 2013, the such challenges.
The Board re-engaged Board benefited from the experience of Lintstock to undertake the annual review Lorraine Trainer and Peter Hill.
Following of the Board in 2014. her appointment as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Lorraine led The Company Secretary and I set the the development of a revised remuneration content for the evaluation with Lintstock policy and the new LTIP rules which are and tailored the questionnaires used to being proposed at the 2015 AGM and the specific circumstances of Essentra.
undertook the appropriate detailed The process picked up on themes identified consultation of the shareholders.
in the 2013 exercise and, with the launch of Drive for 2020, the key strategic issues facing the Company.
