04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Chairmans Statement disposals, increased by 3% at constant currency.
maintaining tight cost control: retaining and We have continued to The underlying revenue trends reported for fostering an entrepreneurial culture: and using invest in the business the first half for subscriptions and advertising a healthy balance sheet and strong cash flows largely continued into the second, while event to fund selective acquisitions.
A detailed review despite the difficult revenue growth was driven by a combination of the groups strategy is set out in the Strategic trading conditions.
The of increased event volumes and favourable Report from page 7.
The adjusted operating margin fell from Capital Appreciation Plan CAP 30% to 29%, reflecting the groups continued was successfully launched The CAP is the long-term incentive scheme strategic investment in digital publishing.
designed to retain and reward those who drive and the focus in 2015 profit growth and is an integral part of the The new Delphi content platform was launched will include rolling out groups successful growth strategy.
The CAP was successfully earlier in the year and is already first introduced in 2004, since then it has been Delphis functionality to starting to generate benefits for businesses such a key driver of the more than fivefold increase in as BCA and the newly launched GlobalCapital Euromoneys other titles the companys adjusted profit before tax.
news and data service for international capital and investing in a strong markets.
The digital focus in 2015 will include Shareholders approved the introduction of rolling out Delphis functionality to the groups pipeline of new information CAP 2014 at the AGM in January 2014.
It has other titles and investing in a strong pipeline services and databases, a similar structure to CAP 2010.
Initial awards of new information services and databases, under CAP 2014 were granted on June 20 while accelerating the move to a digital-only while accelerating the move to approximately 250 senior employees and format for most of the groups titles by the end to a digital-only format for executive directors.
A maximum of 3.5 million of 2016. ordinary shares and 7.6 million of cash will be most of the groups titles used to satisfy CAP 2014 awards.
The shares will Net debt at September 30 was 37.6 million by the end of 2016. be acquired in the market under the authority compared with 28.6 million at March 31 and granted by shareholders at the AGM, and The pressures on the investment banking sector 9.9 million at last year end.
The increase reflects 1.7 million shares were acquired during 2014 at from increased regulation and compliance net acquisition spend of 55.7 million, including a cost of 21.5 million.
CAP awards are expected costs show no real sign of easing.
However, 45.6 million for the purchase of Mining Indaba to vest in three tranches in 2018, 2019 and other organic growth initiatives in events and and 12.5 million for Infrastructure Journal, and 2020, subject to certain performance tests.
data provide confidence in the companys 21.5 million spent buying the companys own longer term growth strategy, while its strong shares to satisfy expected future rewards under The primary performance test for CAP 2014 balance sheet and cash flows provide plenty of its new long-term incentive plan.
Underlying requires the group to achieve growth in headroom for future investment and selective cash flows remain strong and there is plenty of adjusted profit before tax and CAP expense acquisitions.
headroom for the group to pursue its selective of at least 10% a year over a four-year period, acquisition strategy.
i. e. 173.6 million by 2017 from a base of Highlights Strategy 118.6 million in 2013.
If the primary Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, the The groups strategy remains the building of performance test is not satisfied in 2017 the international online information and events a robust and tightly focused global online awards will lapse, subject to the secondary group, achieved an adjusted profit before tax information business with an emphasis on performance test.
The secondary performance of 116.2 million for the year to September emerging markets.
This strategy is being test requires the group to achieve an adjusted 30 2014, against 116.5 million in 2013. executed through increasing the proportion of profit before tax and CAP expense of at least Adjusted diluted earnings a share were 70.6p revenues derived from electronic subscription 84.9% of the primary performance target, i. e. 2013: 71.0p.
The directors recommend a 2% products: investing in technology to drive the 147.4 million, equivalent to growth of 6% increase in the dividend to 16.00p, giving a online migration of the groups products as a year, at which point only one third of the total for the year of 23.00p 22.75p to be paid well as developing new electronic information awards will vest.
If the adjusted profit before to shareholders on February 12 2015. services: building large, must-attend annual tax and CAP expense in 2017 is between the Total revenues for the year were marginally events: maintaining products of the highest secondary and primary targets, then between ahead of last year at 406.6 million.
Underlying quality: eliminating products with a low margin 33% and 100% of the CAP awards will vest revenues, after adjusting for acquisitions and or too high a dependence on print advertising: according to a sliding scale.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Overview Chairmans Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 The rules of the CAP require these performance earnings dilution in 2015 of approximately 2% Outlook targets to be adjusted for significant acquisitions assuming it completes at the end of December The pressures on the investment banking sector or disposals during the performance period.
from increased regulation and compliance costs only significant transaction in the period was the show no real sign of easing.
It is the investment First quarter trading has started in line with acquisition of Mining Indaba, as a result of which banks fixed income activities which are most the boards expectations.
As usual at this the primary and secondary performance targets important to Euromoney and which have been time, there is little visibility into the start of have been increased to 178.4 million and hardest hit over the past couple of years from the next calendar year when new budgets 151.5 million, respectively.
These performance low trading volumes and volatility, as well as are set by most customers.
While the trading targets will also require adjustment for the weak commodity prices.
In contrast, the groups environment remains challenging, the initial Dealogic transaction once it completes.
businesses serving the asset management reaction to the Delphi content platform has sector have seen conditions improve during The maximum cost of CAP 2014 is 41 million been very positive and the pipeline for new 2014 and recent trends in subscription sales if the primary performance test is satisfied Delphi-based products is strong which, with and renewal rates suggest these businesses are in 2017 and all subsequent performance other organic growth initiatives in events and positioned for further growth in 2015. tests are satisfied in full.
The CAP cost will be data, provides confidence in the companys amortised over the expected six-year life of CAP longer term growth strategy.
At the same time, Looking ahead, the acquisition of Mining 2014.
Given the uncertainty of both financial the companys low balance sheet gearing and Indaba should contribute approximately markets and the timing of future acquisitions strong cash flows provide plenty of headroom 5 million to operating profits in 2015.
However, and disposals, the significant digital investment for future investment and acquisitions.
it is anticipated that adjusted operating profits requirements, and the volatility of exchange will be reduced by approximately 3 million from rates, it is difficult to estimate the level of profit unfavourable event timing differences, property the group will achieve in 2017.
For the purpose costs will increase by 2 million following the of provisioning, the group has decided to London office relocation, and the groups amortise the CAP cost on the assumption that adjusted operating margin will also be reduced Richard Ensor only the secondary performance test will be by the impact of a full years Delphi costs and Chairman satisfied by 2017.
This means that initially the investment in other new products including November 19 2014 CAP amortisation charge assumes a total CAP the Investor Intelligence Network.
In addition, cost of 30 million.
The charge in future years the full year impact of the cost of CAP 2014 will be adjusted once there is more visibility over will reduce adjusted profit before tax by nearly future profits.
On this basis the CAP charge for 4 million.
Further, as previously reported, the 2014 is 2.4 million and the expected charge for proposed Dealogic transaction will lead to 2015 is 6.1 million.
BCA Analytics One of the first products launched on the Delphi Content platform was BCA Analytics BAN a new application that bridges the gap between strategy research and the investment decision-making process.
This service delivers the power to spot trends, uncover correlations and identify actionable investment opportunities.
The BAN platform provides clients with the ability to build upon BCA Researchs high quality research and effectively communicate their ideas through powerful data visualisations.
