Letter from Chairman Alexander Abramov Challenging trading conditions serve to highlight the importance of the Boards leadership in overseeing the Companys performance.
68 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Dear stakeholders, The Board, in line with corporate governance I am pleased to introduce our 2014 best practice, undertook a review of the As a result of Terrys decision not to stand Governance Report.
Many of EVRAZs markets effectiveness of its performance during for re-election at the 2015 AGM in June, experienced significant volatility and instability the year.
The evaluation of the Board was a number of changes will be made to the during 2014, with significant declines in the externally facilitated in 2014 and the findings Board.
Michael Peat will assume Chairmanship prices of key commodities such as oil, coking and action points of this review are detailed of the Audit Committee in succession to coal and iron ore accompanied, during the on page 75.
While there are areas for Terry Robinson and Alexander Izosimov will latter part of the year, by the steep fall in improvement, which will be addressed become Chairman of the Nominations the value of the Russian rouble.
Despite these going forward, the review, in overall terms, Committee in succession to Michael Peat.
challenges EVRAZ performed well during the was encouraging and beneficial.
In addition, Karl Gruber will join the year achieving high EBITDA, strong free cash Nominations Committee.
flow generation and further debt reduction.
During 2014, the Health, Safety and This robust outcome illustrated the success Environment Committee undertook a review After thorough review, the Board has of many of the strategic initiatives approved by of EVRAZs health, safety and environmental identified Deborah Gudgeon as a compelling the Board in previous years to better position initiatives and performance.
In both cases, candidate to succeed Terry Robinson as an the Company to weather economic uncertainty.
performance was reviewed against targets independent non-executive director and as previously set by the Board in addition to a member of the Audit Committee.
Miss Challenging trading conditions serve to regulatory developments.
The review Gudgeon is a chartered accountant, with highlight the importance of the Boards recommended the development of further extensive corporate and international leadership role in overseeing the Companys health and safety initiatives in order to experience, which encompasses the mining performance and setting strategic aims.
accelerate the improvement of our sector.
All Board changes will become During the year the Directors held regular performance.
It should be noted that, despite effective after the conclusion of the 2015 meetings with the Companys senior two years of improvements, EVRAZs health Annual General Meeting.
management to receive information updates and safety performance remains significantly and facilitate appropriate action where below our objectives.
I regret to report that 19 Finally, I would like to thank all of EVRAZs required.
Such discussions proved mutually fatalities, involving workers and contractors, employees for their invaluable contributions challenging and highly constructive.
occurred during 2014 compared with 24 in during 2014.
The strength of the Companys 2013.
Any number of fatalities is clearly performance, in a challenging environment, The Board discussed the potential for an unacceptable and management will continue is due in no small measure to their efforts Initial Public Offering IPO of a minority stake to strive to achieve a zero incident rate.
in EVRAZ North America ENA.
Although, terms of environmental performance, the The Board, in line with corporate governance best practice, undertook a review of the effectiveness of its Alexander Abramov performance during the year.
Chairman of the Board EVRAZ plc in the light of abnormal market conditions Committee found that although EVRAZs during the latter part of 2014 we ultimately overall performance is improving, further decided to postpone any transaction, we work is required to raise standards to the remain committed to continuing to examine levels to which we aspire.
the potential to deliver value to shareholders and reduce leverage through the most Succession planning has been a further advantageous management of our focus for the Company during the year to portfolio of assets.
ensure the Board has the right balance of skills and experience to take the Company We continued to build upon our already forward.
To comply with the UK Corporate significant investor relations programme Governance Codes provision on directors in 2014.
During the year, EVRAZ independence, Terry Robinson, who has representatives, including senior executives, served as a Director for nine years, has let it took part in more than 300 meetings, be known that he will not seek re-election at conferences and other public events involving the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
As an the investment community and EVRAZ hosted Independent NonExecutive Director of an investor day in June 2014.
The Company EVRAZ plc since 2011 and, prior to that, also engaged directly with socially responsible a Board member of Evraz Group S. A. since investors and promoted a dialogue with 2005, Terry has made a major contribution to regard to operational risks, health and the development of the Company throughout industrial safety policies and environmental the past decade.
On behalf of the Board, and social issues.
We are always open to I would like to thank him for his considerable requests from shareholders and other efforts.
He will be greatly missed, although stakeholders to discuss Company related we will continue to benefit from his expertise issues.
Sir Michael Peat, our Senior in his role as an advisor to EVRAZs Board Independent Director, is also available to and various Board committees and as a discuss any issues that shareholders may Non-Executive Director of the Raspadskaya not wish to raise with the Company directly.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69
