02 Introduction Chairmans statement Chairmans statement This has been another successful year for Experian, as we have grown and as we have laid important foundations for future development and expansion.
I am pleased to report that this year saw further financial and strategic progress.
Since demerger from GUS plc in 2006, Experian has delivered total returns more than two times the FTSE 100 average.
We have again raised our full year dividend, by 8% to 37.50 US cents per share.
The last year for Experian was characterised by many firsts.
From exciting progress in highgrowth areas and new customer segments, through to finding new ways to inspire our people and pioneer products and services with a social purpose at their heart, Experians appetite to innovate and create new opportunities for growth is as strong as ever.
Sir John Peace Chairman Introduction Chairmans statement 03 P14 Experian has evolved and grown to their social and economic potential.
This Engaging our people become synonymous with the information is precisely what we aim to do through Experians continued success owes a age, and the strength and depth of the the Groups social responsibility agenda.
great deal to the outstanding efforts of Groups global portfolio is a cornerstone a very talented global workforce.
Our Under our Heart of Experian banner, of its success.
From this strong position, culture encourages exceptional business our social responsibility programme I am pleased to report that the years performance, through the skills and energy has gathered real momentum, and I am highpoints were numerous: from the UK of more than 16,000 people.
pleased to report that it was a year of and Irelands strong performance, buoyed major progress and many milestones.
Our efforts to build this sense of pride and by Consumer Services record year, to connection are embodied by our Heart of We launched our first global social the launch of the first fraud database Experian initiative.
After two years, I am innovation programme, encouraging our in Australia to combat this ever-present delighted that its aim of making Experian regions to bid for funding to develop new threat.
The year was also notable for one of the best places to work continues products and services that have both an the global launch of our cross-channel to go from strength to strength.
inherent social and commercial benefit.
marketing platform, helping clients to In this report you will read about many communicate with consumers in an even The year also saw us recognise and of the pioneering, sustainable products more personalised and seamless way, celebrate Experians rich history, stretching our seed-funding helped to kick-start.
spanning traditional and digital channels.
back to the 1800s, with the publication of This programme has struck a chord a history book which we shared with our Over the last decade, Experian has with our people and their response has people.
One of the aspects that struck me successfully diversified into a range been overwhelming.
They are keen to most was the fertile scientific and innovative of new customer segments, using harness their unique skills and our data environment that Experian has always the Groups core data and analytical and analytics, to make a sustainable cultivated.
Reflecting this, we launched capabilities to help clients improve their difference to peoples lives.
P16 a new annual award called the Si Ramo business decisions and their customers Award.
Doctor Simon Ramo was one of In our local communities, we gave back experience.
Stretching beyond Experians Experians forefathers, a physicist, engineer, more of our time than ever before to financial services heartland, our products business leader and visionary.
The prize helping those most in need.
Illustrating and services are now regarded as the will be awarded annually to teams or an the Heart of Experians values in action, industry standard across many highindividual whose scientific skills pioneer our people volunteered nearly 6,000 more growth markets, such as US healthcare new breakthroughs in data and analytics.
hours of their time during the working payments, automotive, public sector and day last year.
These new customer P60 Strong and effective governance segments now account for 69% of Group Environmentally, we continued to reduce I would first like to take this opportunity to revenues, underlining the excellent our impact, with a corresponding benefit thank Sir Alan Rudge, our Deputy Chairman strategic progress it has made in building to our business efficiency.
Initiatives to and Senior Independent Director, who substantial businesses in new sectors.
cut our energy use and business travel will retire at the conclusion of our annual and to divert more waste from landfill all Nowhere are the growth prospects more general meeting in July, for his significant contributed to an improved environmental exciting than in US healthcare payments, contribution and wise counsel to the Group performance.
We also achieved our a highly attractive marketplace Experian over many years.
I would also like to thank highest-ever result in the UK Carbon entered five years ago and one where Chris Callero for his long and distinguished Disclosure Project survey, with our our business is growing strongly.
In a contribution to the Group, ultimately as its score increasing by 17 points to 82%.
marketplace rich with opportunities, I was Chief Operating Officer, and wish him the delighted by the Groups acquisition of very best for his well-deserved retirement.
Strongly positioned for the future Passport Health Communications in North A strong governance structure is one of Experian is a remarkable story about a America, marking another new chapter the principal supports for premium growth, successful business built on innovation, in Experians history.
This acquisition saw successful acquisitions, the continued global enterprise and, above all, the us cement our position as the clear leader expansion of our business and other Group endeavours and hard work of some in US healthcare payments and create an initiatives.
The Board remains focused amazing people.
The Groups vision that excellent platform for further growth.
on ensuring its effectiveness and the its people, data and technology become Meanwhile, our passion for science and effectiveness of governance processes a necessary part of every major consumer innovation remains stronger than ever throughout the Group.
It was therefore economy feels well within our grasp.
and, over the course of the year, we set pleasing that the external Board evaluation It has been my utmost privilege to serve new standards in data and analytics.
With this year highlighted the Boards strength as Experians Chairman and to be part of Big Data part of the business lexicon, and the value it brings to the Group.
I would like to thank Experian was one of the original pioneers The Board-level changes that we have everyone at Experian for their dedication in this field.
Replicating successes in North announced over recent months, and the and commitment and our shareholders for America, we took the decision to invest in considered way in which the process was their strong support.
the development of new data laboratories in steered by Sir Alan, will strengthen what the UK and Ireland and Brazil to research The Group will be under the stewardship is already a very capable and experienced and develop ground-breaking analytical of an exceptional Chairman in Don Robert, Board and I provide my perspective in capabilities, so our clients and consumers my successor, an outstanding Chief detail in this reports Governance section.
can make even more insightful decisions Executive Officer in Brian Cassin, and a in a world where information is growing P52 Recognising our responsibilities highly experienced Board.
Another major milestone and Brian share a passion for the power of With growth comes an acute sense of the during the year saw the Group introduce information, Experian and its people, and Groups social, economic and environmental device identification, to further enhance will serve Experian and its shareholders responsibilities.
We know that our role in its growing global portfolio of fraud and tremendously well.
2014 marks a new society has never been more important and identity management capabilities through chapter in Experians history and its future we have the power, through our people, data its acquisition of The 41st Parameter.
is as exciting as it has ever been.
and analytics, to help communities achieve
