Chairmans Statement Our commitment to shareholder value Mark Abrahams Chairman done organically, provided that they meet our Governance Dear Shareholder financial criteria which include return on sales As part of our commitment to generate longWe believe that the Groups results for the year, and return on capital.
Fenner has the financial term shareholder value, we believe in behaving whilst below our expectations at the start of the capacity to maintain its bolt-on acquisition year, reflect another encouraging performance ethically and openly.
We adhere to and support strategy in the medium term, utilising the by our AEP division and represent a creditable the UK Corporate Governance Code and our Groups own resources and borrowing facilities.
outcome taking into account the impact on ECS commitment to high standards of corporate We expect acquisition activity to be focused of the deterioration in trading conditions which governance continues to be a driver for the on AEP.
took place in certain parts of the global mining success of the Group and underpins how we industry during the year.
On this basis, we anticipate that AEP may expect our businesses to behave.
become the larger contributor of profit within Further information on the Groups The Board believes in engaging with the Group.
performance during the year and the outlook shareholders and, in addition to a regular for the new financial year is set out in the Chief An important component of shareholder value discussions in connection with trading results, Executive Officers Review on pages 5 to 9.
For is the dividend paid to the Companys we offer to meet our major shareholders to the first time, the review includes some shareholders.
In recognition of this, the Board discuss any governance concerns or issues guidance on the medium-term outlook for is recommending an increased final dividend of they might have.
revenue growth, margin progression and return 8.0p per share 2013: 7.5p, which gives a total on capital which are intended to help Further information on Corporate dividend for the year of 12.0p 2013: 11.25p, an shareholders to understand more fully the Governance is set out on pages 39 to 45 increase of 7 per cent.
In addition to the financial results, the Board People Corporate responsibility uses a number of other means to assess the I would like to take this opportunity to express To enhance the sustainability of its businesses, my sincere thanks to all of our employees Groups progress.
We have set ourselves the Fenner has adopted a set of core values.
These strategic goals of building a group which is around the world for their continued require the application of the highest standards Strong, Growing and Resilient, and our progress commitment and dedication.
The progress of health and safety to ensure safe working towards these objectives is set out on page 10. made during the year, despite the difficult conditions for our employees, customers and The Board also uses a series of Key Performance trading conditions experienced by certain parts those around us: a respect for the environment Indicators to monitor the Groups performance, of the Group, is a credit to our employees hard in which we work: an awareness of the which it assesses alongside external factors work and determination.
environmental issues faced by the Group: and a such as changes in trading conditions in the In August, we announced that Richard Perry, commitment to behave with integrity at all principal markets in which the Group operates: Group Finance Director, intends to retire in times.
We also believe that we have a these are set out on pages 11 to 13.
The Board acknowledges with responsibility to be a good neighbour and Strategic development and considerable gratitude the enormous employer, providing a positive influence in contribution made by him since he became shareholder value our communities.
Group Finance Director of Fenner in 1994.
The creation of long-term value for Fenner Richard has been an outstanding finance shareholders remains the fundamental driver Further information on Corporate director and helped to lead the Group through a of everything we do.
Accordingly, the Board Responsibility is set out on pages 30 to 36 period of exceptional development and growth.
keeps Group and business strategy under review to ensure that it is consistent with At the same time, we announced the Annual General Meeting meeting this goal.
appointment of John Pratt as Group Finance You will find enclosed a notice convening the Director, to take effect upon Richard Perrys We envisage the continuation of investment in Companys Annual General Meeting which will both ECS and AEP, each of which has prospects retirement.
John Pratt joined Fenner in 1991 be held on 14 January 2015.
The Meeting will of growth.
Due to the superior growth, margins and has held a number of senior positions, consider a number of resolutions, including the and returns which AEP is likely to achieve, we including Group Financial Controller from 1996 approval of the proposed final dividend.
I look anticipate that future investment is likely to be to 2002 and, most latterly, Executive Director of forward to welcoming you to the meeting.
Additionally, ECS with responsibility for ECSs activities in we anticipate continuing the increased the United Kingdom, South Africa and Asia.
investment in AEPs technology and people, John brings to the role very strong business particularly in those businesses serving the skills and experience, considerable knowledge energy and medical industries.
of the Group's operations and markets across Mark Abrahams Acquisitions will continue to be an important the world and continuity in the leadership of the Chairman Group's finance function: all of which will be of part of our growth strategy where they enable 11 November 2014 the Group to enter a new market or acquire great benefit to the Group as it embarks on its new technology more expediently than can be next phase of development.
