Chairman s statement I am pleased to have joined FirstGroup as Chairman, at a key stage of its evolution.
This is an important company, operating in five major divisions, providing services to millions of customers in the UK and North America, is one of the largest corporate employers, and a major contributor to the communities in which we operate.
Since taking on the role at the beginning of the year, I have reviewed the John McFarlane business plans and actively engaged on major decisions and forward Chairman plans with the senior team.
Essentially, I have found the challenges and opportunities facing the Company to be broadly in keeping with my initial expectations.
I have also met all of our major shareholders.
It is fair to say that they are very supportive of the Group, but are disappointed we have not matched this support with appropriate returns.
Turning this situation around is therefore the first priority of the Board.
I am encouraged that the Group has an attractive portfolio of transport businesses each a leader in its market, and each with good growth and returns prospects, particularly as the economies recover from the global financial crisis.
With the correct decisions and actions, we should be able to turn this into acceptable returns for shareholders in the form of appropriate dividends and capital growth that has eluded us morerecently.
First Transit, Greyhound and UK Rail are delivering returns broadly in line with what I would expect, though clearly we have significant opportunity for further improvement.
The task of extracting greater On the other hand, two of our businesses, First Student and UK Bus, value from First Student and have not performed, and are well short of their potential and delivering lower margins than their competitors.
Although both divisions have UK Bus is fundamental.
Turning faced challenging economic conditions in their respective markets, we cannot escape that we should have managed them better.
Progress around performance in both of has been made in addressing the performance of these two divisions, these divisions would generate with headway being made in UK Bus in particular, but there remains much to do still.
Fixing these and delivering the business plans we additional cash flow to enable announced recently is the Groups key priority.
us to reduce leverage and Also, as a result of past acquisitions, and notwithstanding the rights increase shareholder returns.
issue last year, Group leverage remains higher than its optimal long term level despite the good strides made to reduce it over the past fiveyears, and the interest burden continues to weigh on the income statement.
It will take some years of good operating cash flow to bring this down to a more prudent level, but we will consider ways to accelerate this.
At the same time, some of the businesses have, in the past, suffered from a lack of appropriate capital investment and this has been boosted significantly in our business plans.
FirstGroup 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Chairman s statement Taking together the current stage of the First Student and UK Bus On behalf of the Board I would also like to pay tribute to my recovery programmes and our commitment to the capital investment predecessor Martin Gilbert who stepped down from the Board on programme, it will take some time before the Group is able to 31December 2013 and, having been involved with the Group since its deliver a profile of consistent surplus cash that can be distributed to formation, was instrumental in establishing its position as the leading shareholders.
As a result, the Board has decided that we should refrain transport operator in the UK and North America.
from reinstating a dividend at this point.
Having consulted with our I have been impressed by the commitment and dedication of our major shareholders I am confident they will support this decision.
people who remain focused on the task of delivering high-quality We will keep shareholders advised of progress in this respect.
The Board is grateful for the continued The task of extracting greater value from First Student and UK Bus is efforts and dedication of our 117,000 employees, particularly during fundamental.
Turning around performance in both of these divisions, as what has been a challenging period for the Group.
well as delivering profitability and returns at least in line with our peers, As I have spent time reviewing and challenging the strategy of the would generate additional cash flow to enable us to reduce leverage Group, my early impression is that this is the right one for current and increase shareholder returns.
Central to this is the need to make conditions.
We will however continue to review other options that are disciplined decisions on pricing, productivity and capital allocation.
financially compelling, as I work with management and the Board over I am confident these issues are resolvable over time and my own the coming months.
Clearly it is disappointing that we have not been experience in corporate recovery situations should assist in this.
ina position to declare a dividend for the year, but we ask for Turning to performance for the year, while below our ultimate potential, shareholders patience while we return the Group to a dividend the Group has performed broadly in line with expectations, once payingposition.
account is taken for the extraordinary weather particularly in North Looking forward, although it is early days for me as your Chairman, America.
Excluding businesses sold this and last year, Group revenues I believe we have correctly assessed the situation, are putting the right have increased modestly, but more importantly from a strategic programmes in place, and are taking the appropriate action to improve perspective, adjusted operating profit increased by 5.5%, adjusted profitability, cash generation and to strengthen the balance sheet.
profit before tax is 23.1% greater, and adjusted profit attributable to ordinary shareholders has increased by 21.8%.
Adjusted EPS has fallen With a resolute focus on bringing these issues to a successful by 31.8%, principally due to the increased number of shares following conclusion, I sincerely look forward to playing a pivotal role in the next the rights issue.
Capital investment increased as planned, and adjusting stage of the Groups evolution.
for the proceeds of the rights issue, Group cash flow was in line with guidance.
The Board was particularly encouraged by the performance of First John McFarlane Transit, Greyhound, UK Bus and UK Rail this year.
UK Bus, while still Chairman working through its transformation programme, is beginning to show 21 May 2014 that it is on the right track.
First Students slower progress however, which was heavily affected by the unusual winter weather, Note: Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating wasdisappointing.
profit before amortisation charges, ineffectiveness on financial derivatives and exceptional items.
EBITDA is adjusted operating profit less capital grant amortisation plus depreciation.
A strong, experienced and diverse Board with the right mix of skills andexperience will be essential to the successful execution of the transformation programme, by providing strategic oversight to management as well as rigorous and robust challenge.
It is a natural process after periods of long service for Directors to retire and for the Board to be refreshed.
Accordingly, we have announced that John Sievwright, David Begg, and Colin Hood will retire from the Board, and Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will join the Board as Non-Executive Directors, with effect from 24 June 2014.
I am pleased to welcome Warwick, Drummond and Imelda to the Board and I am delighted that such distinguished directors have placed their faith in us.
Their backgrounds and experience are set out on page 52.
I would like to thank John, David and Colin for their dedication and contribution to the Company, and particularly for their support to me as incoming Chairman.
FirstGroup 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
