CHAIRMANS LETTER PETER HILL, CBE Dear Shareholder, Chairman Overview 2014 has been a year of excellent progress.
Alent has delivered a robust set of results, with good growth in sales, profits and margins together with strong cash generation.
Our key end-markets of electronics and automotive showed return to growth during the year and we continued to outperform those markets.
Our position as aglobal market leader, our competitive advantage and our financial strength enables us to outperform those markets that are core to Alent.
The strategy for Alent remains unchanged, and we set out in this Report how we will continue to further develop and deliver on that strategy.
The key elements are to: focus on high unit growth end-markets: build on our differentiated value-add customer strategy: continue to develop higher-margin products: improve mix and operational efficiencies: further invest in R&D to expand our market, technology and innovation leadership: and utilise our financial strength to support organic growth and acquisitions.
Further detail on our strategy, and on its execution during 2014, is set out within the Strategic Report on pages 22 - 23.
Delivery of profitable growth Alent delivered a robust set of results in 2014, with goodprogress in all key financial metrics.
Net Sales Value showed a very creditable organic growth at constant currency of 4.6%: adjusted operating profit grew 7.6% and adjusted EPS by 11.1%, both on the same basis.
Cashgeneration from operations was again extremely strong, and net debt at year end was 108.3m 2013: 96.5m despite the payment of a special dividend of 42m duringthe year.
04 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Governance Strong governance is integral to the long-term success 2014 has been a year of excellent of Alent and the Board is committed to ensuring that the progress.
Alent has delivered a business continues to be governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
Our Governance robust set of results, with good Report on pages 44 - 62 sets out the approach we growth in sales, profits and take and highlights the key focus areas of the Board margins together with strong during 2014. cash generation.
Board development In September 2014, Steve Corbett stood down as Chief Executive.
Steve played an important role in developing the underlying business and overseeing Alents transition into becoming a publicly traded, specialty chemicals Company.
We wish him success in his future endeavours.
Dividend Andrew Heath was appointed Chief Executive, joining The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2014 of Alent on 21 February 2015.
Andrews knowledge of and 6.0 pence with a total dividend per share for 2014 of 9.0 successful track record in delivering innovation and new pence.
This is an increase of 4.7% on the prior year and in technology to demanding global customers in the US, line with the Groups progressive dividend policy of full year Europe and Asia will be of enormous benefit to Alent.
dividend growth expected to be at least in line with His operational and corporate development expertise earnings growth, and targeting a dividend cover in the will bring valuable experience to our Board.
Andrew will near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times.
The final provide strong leadership to our well established senior dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, management team and we look forward to working with will be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the him to take the Company forward.
I would also like to thank Rick Ertmann, President of our The Board is committed to maintaining a capital structure Assembly Materials business unit, who has been an that is both efficient and balanced between investment extremely effective Interim Chief Executive.
for growth, both organically and through acquisitions, and Jan Oosterveld, Non-executive Director will be retiring returns to shareholders.
In October 2014 we assessed our following the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015. expected future cash generation and the capital required Jan joined the Board of Cookson Group plc in 2004 to support our ongoing growth plans, normal dividend and was an inaugural Director of Alent.
The Board thanks payment and potential bolt-on acquisitions and Jan for his very strong contribution and wishes him all announced a special dividend to shareholders of future success.
15.0pence per share, representing a return of 42m.
Our people Health, Safety, Environment Our progress in delivering against our strategy is only and Sustainability HSES possible through the significant efforts and dedication of The Group remains committed to the continuous our people, while their calibre and commitment continues improvement of its performance in respect of health, to impress.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all safety, environment and sustainability.
Our performance in of our people for their continued efforts as together we this area of our business continues to be of a high industry focus on executing our strategy and taking Alent forward.
Nevertheless, we remain vigilant in monitoring and improving our processes and activities which impact upon the safety of our people and the environment.
PETER HILL, CBE Chairman 2 March 2015 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 05
