Chairmans Statement 2014 was another challenging year for precious metals producers.
Optimising performance in Geopolitics, global security concerns, economic uncertainties and market volatility, which may have driven investors to precious metals thecurrent environment, with as a safe haven in the past, had no direct correlation to prices this year: gold and silver prices were both lower in the year.
However, a commitment to long-term these circumstances provided us with an opportunity to acquire the remaining 44% of Penmont and associated companies, substantially value creation.
strengthening our gold production and resources.
The overall decline of precious metals equities affected all companies Alberto Baillres in the sector: however, Fresnillos low cost operations, strong balance Non-executive Chairman sheet, high quality assets and a solid pipeline of organic growth projects provided some defence.
Nonetheless, the Companys financial performance in the year was affected by a 10.2% decline in our average realised gold price, which fell to US$1,257.7 per ounce, and an 18.4% fall in our average realised silver price, to US$18.6 per ounce.
Optimising performance through the cycle Against this backdrop we also faced a number of internal challenges: lower ore grade at the Fresnillo mine, the stoppage of operations at Soledad-Dipolos, and processing capacity issues at Herradura.
Yet, as outlined in the Chief Executives report, these factors were mitigated by increased production at other mines and important measures taken to secure our 2018 production targets.
Silver production, including the Silverstream, of 45.0 moz exceeded our budget and 2013 production.
Having acquired Newmont Minings 44% interest in Penmont and associated companies, we met the revised gold production target of 590 koz, producing 596 koz.
Development projects advanced according to plan: Saucito II commenced operations in December 2014 and San Julin is set to start up in the 4Q 2015.
This progress was achieved in the context of a maturing sustainability framework and a continuously improving safety culture.
Our strategy of continued investment in exploration to underpin organic growth yielded good results.
We added 3.0 moz gold 45.0% and 102.2 moz silver 21.3% to our reserves, although lower price assumptions led to a narrower increase in gold resources 1.7% and a 6.2% decrease in silver resources.
We were particularly encouraged by the strong increase in resources and reserves at Herradura, underscoring the value of our acquisition.
Fresnillo plc reported adjusted revenue of US$1,545.0 million in 2014, down 12.3% from 2013, and EBITDA of US$567.3 million, 22.3% lower than in the previous year.
Profit attributable to equity shareholders, excluding Silverstream effects, was US$54.5 million, down 80.4%.
These figures reflect the decline in average realised silver and gold prices, lower volumes of gold sold and increased stripping in the Herradura district in accordance with mine plans, all of which were partially mitigated by lower refining charges and the devaluation of theMexican peso against the US dollar.
While profit margins declined in the period, cost control measures and certain efficiency improvements allowed us to maintain our position asalow cash cost producer.
Alberto Baillres | 8 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totalled Social performance is another pillar of our business model and corporate US$449.3 million at 31 December 2014, while total debt on the strategy.
In accordance with our corporate culture of continuous balancesheet was US$796.2 million, providing us with low leverage improvement, we set our sights on international best practices in the andsignificant financial flexibility.
The introduction of an integrated series of initiatives and programmes to strengthen social performance in 2015 marks a I am confident that Fresnillo has the operational and financial strength further step in the realisation of this vision.
In addition to implementing toaddress the challenges we may face.
Our financial flexibility, combined policies designed to enhance stakeholder engagement and community with managements ability to tailor mine plans, development expenditures development at our mining and exploration sites, we are exploring the and exploration parameters in accordance with external market conditions, possibility of forging an innovative programme in the area of global ensures that we optimise performance in the current environment.
same time, the quality of our asset base and commitment to sustainable growth offer a long-term value creation opportunity.
I encourage you to review the range of measures on which we report inour Social and Sustainability Performance, as set out on pages 80-95, including natural resource management, greenhouse gas emissions, Strategically allocating capital andworkforce diversity and retention, among others.
to balance growth and returns The approach of our Board has always been to take the long view, Looking ahead with a consistent value creation strategy independent of the external I am hard pressed to recall a time in this industry with such marked environment and short-term shifts in market dynamics.
Notwithstanding, uncertainty regarding precious metal prices.
While longer-term we must scrutinise every expenditure and investment in the face of an cyclical patterns will likely remain, the short-term factors affecting extended decline in metal prices and the rise of cost factors beyond their behaviour and timing are increasingly complex and opaque.
There is little consensus today on where we are in the current cycle On managements recommendation, the total investment in exploration and which catalysts might bear most impact on pricing.
In the face of for 2014 was reduced from the original US$225.0 million budget to such uncertainties, we choose to be conservative in our projections.
However, as costs for contracted exploration and drilling Notwithstanding, I remain committed to our proven strategy in have declined, the pace of progress was essentially unchanged from plan.
Our priority, for 2015 and beyond, is firmly set With the US$450.0 million acquisition of Newmont Minings 44% interest on value creation.
Thus, management must continue to focus on in Penmont and associated companies, all current operations, two key managing ore grades, optimising capacity and throughput, bringing on advanced exploration projects and a number of exploration targets in new projects, and extending the growth pipeline, all while continuing one of Mexicos most attractive gold belts are now fully attributable to to contain costs, enhance sustainability practices and uphold our the Group.
As a result, our 2018 gold production target increased from commitment to stakeholders.
In light of that commitment, the Board has authorised a total budget In line with our conservative growth strategy, Fresnillo initiated a ofapproximately US$170 million to be invested in exploration one-off hedging programme to protect the value of the investment and early stageunderground development in 2015, a decrease of made in the Penmont acquisition, allowing for partial exposure to gold 7.9% from the 2014 figure.
This investment reflects our disciplined prices.
This phased hedging programme was strictly limited to the 44% approach to allocating risk capital to the continued profitable growth of Penmont and associated companies acquired, implemented at of the Group.
managements discretion depending on prevailing market conditions.
Investing across price cycles will always be a hallmark of our strategy, The Groups hedging policy remains unchanged for the remainder of butwe must also take into account prevailing market conditions the portfolio, providing shareholders with full exposure to gold and to ensure that investments are accretive for shareholders in the silver prices.
Beyond the acquisition and investment in exploration, US$425.6 million in Our current budget, as reviewed in February 2015, calls for 2015 capex capex was allocated in 2014, primarily to the construction of the SaucitoII to be in the region of US$700 million, compared to US$425.6 million in and San Julin projects.
Management continued to focus on efficiency 2014.
Funds will be allocated primarily to mining works at Herradura, gains and cost controls to maintain our cost position and margins.
Fresnillo and Saucito, construction of a pyrites plant in the Fresnillo In July 2014 the Board conducted a comprehensive review of the District, construction at San Julin, sustaining capex at current mines Companys current and future financial requirements and found that and, pending approval and market conditions, expansions at Cinega thebalance sheet was well placed to meet capital expenditure plans and Herradura.
Should silver and gold prices continue to decline for and future potential growth opportunities.
Thus, while the 2014 dividend an extended period of time, management has prepared mitigating was brought forward and paid in November 2013, a special dividend was actions, including the deferral of certain projects, reviewed and declared in 2014 of 5.0 US cents per share, equivalent to US$36.8 million.
approved by the Board, to safeguard the Groups cash balances.
Whilst industry conditions have clearly deteriorated since that time, we remain committed to prudent financial policies that ensure sufficient Board changes cash on hand to invest in existing operations, profitable growth, and We welcomed Brbara Garza Lagera, Jaime Serra and Charles Jacobs shareholder returns.
to the Board in 2014, whose diverse backgrounds and significant experience will greatly support the Company and the Board.
I look Advancing our HSECR goals forward to continued collaboration with all my Board colleagues, The maturity of the Companys Health, Safety, Environment and whose insights and engagement I deeply value.
I am also grateful for Community Relations HSECR System advanced according to plan, the service of the three members who stood down from the Board in asdetermined by an independent assessment, ensuring we meet our 2014: Fernando Solana, Javier Fernndez, and Lord Cairns, who served 2016 targets.
Efforts to integrate Health, Safety and Environment under on the Board for six, five and six years respectively.
a single Integrated Management System resulted in Cinega becoming I would like to extend my appreciation to the people of Fresnillo plc thefirst business unit to achieve a joint integrated certification in OHSAS for their efforts and commitment to sustainable growth and value 18001 ISO 14001, followed by Fresnillo and Penmont, which achieved the creation.
It is to their credit that we are well placed to address certification later in the year.
Such certifications are important, of course, but it is the people behind the policies and practices who are most important.
We have made much progress in safety matters, yet I am deeply saddened to report Alberto Baillres one fatality during the year: this led to extensive internal reviews with Non-executive Chairman management and contractors.
Safety must always be our number one priority, deeply embedded in our culture.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 9
