Chairmans statement A year of progress During the second half of 2013 the new management team developed a strategic plan which envisaged a group-wide transformation programme and extensive proposals to implement new processes and disciplines, emphasising our key values of customer service and integrity.
The board approved the new strategic plan in 2013 and in 2014 the board devoted considerable time to assessing the implementation and effectiveness of that plan.
I am delighted to report that, over the course of 2014, the group has moved forward across a broad front as management has made excellent progress executing the groups strategic plan with great skill and energy.
The board has been particularly pleased with the progress made in strengthening the global leadership John Connolly team, reinforcing the groups values, investing in organic Chairman growth, customer service and operational efficiency.
Management also successfully supplemented the groups portfolio management programme and strengthened risk management.
Building on In March the company reached a settlement with the UK Government in relation to historical billing issues and management developed and began implementing strong foundations a fundamental programme of corporate renewal.
This focused on strengthening the culture and control processes in our UK Government business.
As noted above, the groups transformation programme As I reported last year, G4S has embarked on extends well beyond our UK Government business and a group-wide transformation with a strengthened is being implemented on a group-wide basis.
The board has been pleased with the progress made to date and management team and a clear strategic plan.
will continue to monitor managements implementation In 2014 that plan was put into action and the of the programme during 2015. board has been pleased with the clear progress The Board made in all areas of the business, including financial In 2015, we will be making a number of changes to the membership of the board.
Mark Seligman has now performance.
This provides strong foundations served on the board for nine years and, in line with for further progress in 2015 and beyond.
UK corporate governance guidelines, will retire from the board after the 2015 AGM.
Mark has made a significant contribution board during a period of great change and I am very grateful for all that he has done.
In preparation for his retirement from the board, Mark handed over the chairmanship of the Audit Committee to Tim Weller, a serving CFO with considerable financial and business skills and experience.
Mark remained on the Audit Committee until the end of 2014 to ensure a smooth handover and to assist with Dividend per share the tender process for the role of the companys external auditor.
That process resulted in a clear recommendation from the Audit Committee, fully endorsed by the board, 9.24p that shareholders approve the appointment of PwC as the companys external auditor for 2015.
2013: 8.96p 8 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Grahame Gibson will stand down from the board at Financial performance the conclusion of the 2015 AGM and retire from the The progress made in 2014 was reflected in the group in October 2015.
Grahame is the longest serving groups financial performance.
member of our board, having been appointed in 2005, Organic growth was 3.9% overall and 9% in emerging and he has been a senior executive of the G4S group markets.
That growth, combined with the success of and its predecessors since 1983.
I would like to record restructuring and efficiency programmes, saw underlying the boards gratitude to Grahame for the enormous profit increase by 8%, underlying earnings increase contribution he has made to the group.
The board by 12% and cash generated by operating businesses extends its best wishes to Grahame and his family in increase from 420 million to 526 million.
The board has confidence in the groups performance The Nomination Committee has commenced a process and prospects and the directors propose an increase of to recruit a new non-executive director and I expect 5% in the final dividend which is payable on 12 June 2015. that process to be completed during the first half of 2015.
With the new non-executive director in place, I believe With an interim dividend of 3.42p DKK 0.3198 we will have a board which retains a good knowledge per share paid on 17 October 2014 and a final dividend of the group and its businesses whilst also having the of 5.82p DKK 0.6041 per share, the total dividend broad spectrum of skills, experience and background for the year will amount to 9.24p per share appropriate for this company and the strategy it is 2013: 8.96p per share.
It also has a suitably diverse composition The progress which has been made in 2014 was in terms of nationality and gender, which is important in the result of a great deal of hard work by the groups any business, but particularly so in one which is as large management and 623,000 employees, many of whom and geographically and culturally diverse as G4S.
In 2015 work in challenging circumstances.
They provide vital the board will continue with a programme of regular services for the groups customers around the world engagements with management teams from across the and I would like to express my appreciation for their group, which enables the non-executive directors to continuing dedication.
broaden and deepen their knowledge of the group and its strategy, management and operations.
John Connolly Chairman Revenue by region % UK & Ireland Africa 23% 7% Asia Middle East 19% Latin America 10% North America 20% Europe 21% Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 9
