Chairmans statement Continuing to deliver for shareholders Performance and dividend Galliford Trys performance has been strong for a number of years.
Our hybrid business model meant the Group coped well during the recession, when our growth in housebuilding more than made up for a difficult construction market.
We are now in a period of housing market recovery, which has helped our performance over the last 12 months.
Our strategic decision to reinforce our landbank while the market is favourable means we now hold the equivalent of around 14,000 units, positioning us well for the next few years.
Construction has not yet benefited from a market recovery but thesigns are encouraging, with increased enquiries and tenders coming through and a number of major project wins.
We continue to take a prudent approach to this market, with a focus on risk, margin and cash.
Overall, we are confident about the future and this is reflected in Our successful strategy our continuing progressive dividend policy.
This year, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 38 pence per share, an increase has once again delivered of 52%.
This follows a 25% increase in the interim dividend, to 15pence per share, giving a total dividend of 53 pence, up 43%.
record results and created With earnings per share increasing by 32% to 94.6 pence per share, value for shareholders, the total dividend is covered approximately 1.8 times by earnings, in line with our objective.
The final dividend will be paid on 28 allowing us to propose November 2014 to shareholders on the register at 17 October 2014. afurther significant Strategy Our overarching aim is to create value for shareholders.
We increase in the dividend.
weretherefore pleased to set out our new strategic objectives inFebruary 2014 see pages 12 and 13, which include detailed targets for the Group and each of our divisions.
By 2018, we plan to more than double profit before tax and earnings per share over Earnings per share Up 32% thosedelivered in 2013, with even greater growth in the dividend.
To reach these objectives, we will continue to follow the same fundamental strategy as before, focusing on disciplined growth across our businesses.
One notable change is our decision to 94.6p move our Galliford Try Partnerships affordable housing business from our construction division into housebuilding, in order to enhance its development capabilities and refocus the management team.
The UK has underinvested in affordable housing for decades and we see significant opportunities for a regeneration and land-led contractor developer model.
Realigning Galliford Try Partnerships with our housebuilding division reinforces our leading position in this market and is highly attractive to clients.
06 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 s s e n e v i t c e f f E p i h s r e d a e L S t r a Strategic report Governance Financials Governance Dividend per share Up 43% Galliford Try continues to have robust governance, which we seeas vital to our long-term success.
In the last year, we have further strengthened our Board with the appointment of two new non-executive directors, Ishbel Macpherson and Terry Miller.
Theyjoined the Board on 1 February 2014, adding significant 53.0p skillsand experience.
Amanda Burton retired from the Board on 16 September 2014.
She has been an excellent senior independent director and chair of our Remuneration Committee.
We thank her for her contribution and wish her well for the future.
She is being succeeded by Peter Rogers as senior independent director and Ishbel Macpherson as Summary of governance chair of the Remuneration Committee.
What has the Board achieved during theyear?
Galliford Try complies with all the latest governance guidelines and codes, and we look to adopt new practices that will strengthen our governance.
During the year, prompted by the prospective rotation of our audit partner, we undertook a review of the appointment of the auditors before we were required to do so.
The Board was satisfied that the current auditors clearly demonstrate independence and provide value, and hence recommended the reappointment of  LLP.
However, we will reviewthe appointment ahead of compulsory rotation and it will be subject toshareholder approval annually.
People The Group has a very strong senior team, led by our chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald.
We also enhanced the team through internal promotion and external appointments.
In particular, Andrew Richards moved from our PPP Investments business tohead up Linden Homes from the start of the financial year.
Greg has recently indicated his wish to retire as chief executive Leadership Strategy nolater than the end of 2015 and is committed to ensuring a We strengthened the Board The Board reviewed and smooth transition to his successor.
The Board thanks Greg for his and enhanced its diversity approved our new strategic excellent leadership and vision over the last nine years in his role through two new nonobjectives, whichwe as chief executive.
We believewill drive substantial also filled senior positions in growth and create value for The Groups performance and ability to deliver for customers our management team by shareholders over the andshareholders depends on our peoples skill and dedication.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their through recruitment.
continued commitment to Galliford Try.
Risk Effectiveness We look to continuously Conclusion and outlook The Groups performance improve our risk management.
reflects the quality of its During the year, we put in The economy and housing market are in a period of growth.
In most leadership and governance.
place a new Risk Committee parts of the country, house prices are only now getting back to 2007 An internal Board evaluation chaired by our finance director.
The need for more housing is reflected in the pace of growth confirmed that the Board is across the industry and the next three years look good as a result.
strong and functions Shareholders effectively, building on the Galliford Try has a strong In construction, we are seeing more enquiries and larger scale Boards first external shareholder register.
Longer term, the Government also has some major evaluation in 2013. the year, we offered meetings projects in the pipeline, such as nuclear power, education, highways with the chairman and senior and HS2, which play to our strengths in building and infrastructure.
Overall, the outlook in construction is promising, although it is much earlier in the recovery cycle than housebuilding.
We are also excited by Miller Construction joining the Group in July 2014.
The Group is looking forward to delivering disciplined growth across its business.
For more information please refer to the Governance Report from page 44 Ian Coull Chairman Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 07 t e g y s r e d l o h e r a h S k s i R
