STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement Continued progress We are a long term business with the right strategy.
MIKE TURNER CBE CHAIRMAN Results and dividend Our strategy 2014 was another year of progress for GKN.
We have delivered a good Our strategy is central to the years good results.
We successfully set of results.
I am particularly pleased with the results because positioned our automotive businesses to grow above the market and in some respects 2014 was not a straightforward year: we faced in 2014 they grew 8% organically compared to market growth of 3%.
considerable currency headwinds with sterling unusually strong We have repositioned our aerospace business so that 73% is now in against all major currencies for much of the year, the agricultural the higher growth commercial sector, compared to just 42% in 2007. market fell sharply and the military aerospace market continued Following the successful acquisition and integration as a whole of to decline.
Despite this, we have grown both our organic sales and Volvo Aero, we have a leading aerospace engine systems business overall profit.
This shows the resilience of our business model and with excellent exposure to some fast-growing platforms.
In the strength of our strategy.
medium term our aerospace business is very well positioned to take advantage of growing platforms such as the Boeing 787, the A350 We have continued with our progressive dividend policy and are and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
recommending a final dividend of 5.6 pence per share, making a total of 8.4 pence per share for the year, an increase of 6% over the Each year we seek to improve our strategy process.
Over the course of the past five years we have seen the refined how we review and develop the Groups strategic objectives dividend rise 68% from 5.0 pence per share in 2010 to 8.4 pence in by increasing our focus on long term market, economic and respect of 2014. technology trends.
There are some exciting changes ahead of us, including the increasing electrification of vehicles and the use of additive manufacturing in aerospace.
We continue to invest to take advantage of the opportunities presented by these changes.
Our strategic objectives are described in further detail on page 9.
See pages 20-41 for more information on our financial results 06 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information We did not make any major acquisitions in 2014, taking a disciplined ensure that the Board continues to have a good feel for approach to potential opportunities and choosing to focus on what is happening in each division.
The Board has real thoroughly integrating our engine systems business following the diversity of experience and technical expertise, and the acquisition of Volvo Aero in 2012.
During 2014 we were awarded Board dynamic continues to be excellent with all Directors investment grade status with all three of the major rating agencies making a valuable contribution.
and continued to pay down our debt.
We are now in a strong position to make further acquisitions, but will continue to take a Our people focused approach.
Meeting a wide range of customer expectations is never easy, but GKNs culture is to persevere and through the commitment Sustainability and risk of our people we have delivered a good set of results.
They have GKN has a long history of behaving ethically: of doing the right again demonstrated GKNs resilience and ability to grow above thing.
We recognise that we continuously need to ensure that we set the market.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for the right tone from the top and engage with our people to ensure all that they have done.
that they understand the behaviours that we expect of them.
For this reason we revised the GKN Code during 2014, making it clearer I have written in the past about a pressing need for a global talent and more engaging, and updating it to bring additional focus to pool that is well stocked with young people with the necessary areas such as diversity and inclusion, and quality.
We have also scientific and mathematical skills.
That remains the case and I am strengthened our diversity and inclusion programme, which is visibly glad to report that around the world GKN continues to engage in supported by the Board, and we have worked hard to improve quality hundreds of local initiatives designed to encourage young people and product safety through the Voice of the Customer initiative to choose engineering as a possible future career.
described by Nigel on page 18.
Looking forward We have well developed risk management processes, but are not As we enter 2015, political and economic uncertainty will continue complacent and note the emphasis on risk management in the to affect GKN.
But we are a long term business with the right revised 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
We continue to work strategy.
I am therefore confident that the Group will continue to to improve our risk management processes and control systems.
We grow and generate sustainable returns for our shareholders during have described our work in this area in greater detail on pages 42-51.
The Board Adam Walker joined the Board at the start of 2014 and quickly became an effective member of the team.
I am confident that he will be an asset to the Company.
On 31 December 2014 Marcus Bryson CBE retired from his role as Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems Mike Turner CBE Chairman and from the Board.
Marcus joined GKN in 1994 and since then his contribution to the creation of the GKN we see today, and in particular our aerospace division, has been significant.
He fully deserves the CBE recently awarded for his contribution to the UK aerospace industry.
We have not replaced Marcus on the Board for now and have chosen instead to strengthen the Executive Committee with the appointment of Kevin Cummings, CEO GKN Aerospace, Peter Oberparleiter, CEO GKN Powder Metallurgy, and Philip Swash, CEO GKN Land Systems.
They will regularly attend Board meetings to GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07
