80 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Chairmans introduction & Board of Directors Dear Shareholders, Sustainable Development 2014 was another eventful year for Glencore against a The unique position of our Company in the resources sector backdrop of a challenging business environment.
It was also and the strength of our management team provide me with a year of consolidation and progress in our governance and great confidence that Glencore is well placed to meet the sustainability agenda.
ongoing challenge of sustainably producing and supplying commodities that are needed to meet the worlds growing Board activities demands.
Our efforts in sustainability in 2014 resulted in our admission to the International Council of Mining and In May 2014, I was delighted to have been appointed by the Metals ICMM.
This is the industry trade body dedicated to Board as its ongoing Chairman.
Following this decision, establishing and promoting leading sustainability practices.
Peter Grauer was appointed as the Senior Independent Another important milestone in 2014 was the completion of Non-Executive Director.
A month later Patrice Merrin was the $500 million upgrade to the Mopani smelter in Zambia appointed as the eighth member of our Board, contributing which now currently captures 95% of its sulphur dioxide additional valuable mining and climate change knowledge.
I am confident that our Company will continue These changes completed the restructuring of our Board tostrive to not only meet but exceed the expectations placed which had begun a year earlier.
As a result we now have on us by our stakeholders.
an appropriately sized Board whose members have wide-ranging backgrounds.
The strong track records Stakeholder engagement and experience of all the Non-Executive Directors allow challenge and informed support to be provided to executive Stakeholder engagement is a fundamental part of our management in running a diverse and complex business.
governance and decision making process.
The Board and Glencores senior management team are firmly committed The Board continues to keep abreast of changes to corporate to establishing a dialogue with all stakeholders of our governance reporting requirements.
This engagement includes with our critics, its steady forward march, so we remain keen to keep our particularly certain NGOs.
We have sought to engage reporting as clear and concise as possible.
In particular, constructively and our responses to material allegations following last years extensive remuneration report, we have areposted on the Public Positions section of our website.
taken the opportunity this year to remove any elements which would merely be repetitive of last years text.
Creating value for society Our operations make a significant contribution to their Safety host countries through taxes and royalties, employment, Safety remains our top priority.
It saddens me to report sourcing products and services, and investment in local that 16 people lost their lives working at our operations communities.
2014 saw our Group continue to strengthen during 2014.
In 2013, we launched our SafeWork initiative, partnerships with organisations dedicated to tackling which identifies and targets the most common fatal hazards social problems in the areas we operate.
During the year within our Group operations.
The SafeWork initiative has we initiated a partnership with CARE International, continued gaining ground throughout 2014.
During the a global NGO dedicated to fighting poverty, and we year we also held our first fatality prevention summit look forward to working together to strengthen our which brought together senior management and safety community programmes.
professionals to identify and commit to safety performance improvements.
Compared to previous years the reduced I look forward to reporting on the further progress number of fatalities, whilst unacceptable, demonstrates our ofourCompany in a years time.
safety leadership, safety culture and risk-based mitigation methods are starting to produce appreciable results.
Tony Hayward Chairman 81 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 2 34 567 8 1.
Ivan Glasenberg 82 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Chairmans introduction & Board of Directors Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive He was non-executive chairman of Xstrata Australia 1.
Prior to this he served from January 2008 until August 2009.
From April Peter Coates AO as an Executive Director from June to December 2013 2008 until April 2011, he was non-executive and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. Mr Coates Non-Executive Director May 2013. is non-executive chairman of Sphere Minerals age 69 Limited ASX:SPH, and from 30 April 2015, Santos Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, Limited ASX:STO, and a non-executive director of Environment and Communities Committee.
Amalgamated Holdings Limited ASX:AHD, and a Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 as a past chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia, senior executive in the coal department, Mr Coates the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian had occupied many senior positions in a diverse Coal Association.
range of resource companies, including those Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree in mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal.
Mining Engineering from the University of New When Glencore sold its Australian and South African South Wales.
He was appointed to the Office of the coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the chief executive of its coal business, stepping down Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy inDecember 2007.
Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an Mr Grauer is a director of Davita Healthcare Partners 2.
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 NYSE:DVA, a healthcare services company.
Peter Grauer and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive Mr Grauer is also a member of the International Director in May 2014. Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the Senior Independent UNC Chapel Hill board of trustees and a trustee of Committees: Chairman of the Nomination Rockefeller University.
Non-Executive Director Committee: member of the Audit Committee.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of North aged 69 Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg Carolina and the Harvard University Graduate Inc. the global financial media company that was School of Business Program for Management founded in 1981.
Mr Grauer was chairman and chief Development in 1975. executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a member of Bloombergs board of directors since 1996.
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 2000 when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking.
He served as managing director and senior partner of CSFB Private Equity until 2002.
Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an Before rejoining Morgan Stanley as chairman 3.
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013. and chief executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack John Mack served as co-chief executive officer of Credit Suisse Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration Group and chief executive officer of Credit Suisse Independent Committee and member of the First Boston.
Non-Executive Director Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief Hydro and Corinthian Ophthalmic.
He is also aged 70 executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. until December 2009.
He retired as chairman in 2011.
Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, China Investment Corporation, is a member of becoming a board director in 1987 and was named the International Business Council of the World President in 1993.
Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International Financial Advisory Council.
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
Appointed: Anthony Hayward was appointed Following a series of technical and commercial roles 4.
Independent Non-Executive Chairman in May 2013 in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned Anthony Hayward initially on an interim basis from May 2013 to May to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream 2014.
Prior to being appointed Chairman he was executive committee.
He became group treasurer Chairman theSenior Independent Non-Executive Director.
in2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities age 57 and member of the main Board of BP in 2003.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Communities Committee.
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University in Birmingham and completed a Ph.
D. at Edinburgh Experience: Dr Hayward is chief executive officer University.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Genel Energy plc LON:GENL, a partner and ofEdinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from member of the European advisory Board of AEA the University of Edinburgh, Aston University Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig geologist in the North Sea.
83 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an Mr Macaulay is chairman of the board of Dresser- 5.
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Rand NYSE:DRC, chairman of the board of William Macaulay CHC Group Ltd NYSE:HELI, and a director of Committees: Member of the Audit and Weatherford International NYSE:WFT.
He also Independent Remuneration Committees.
serves on numerous private energy company boards.
Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and chief Non-Executive Director In addition, he is chairman of the advisory board of executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a the City University of New York.
age 69 private equity investment firm focused on the energy Mr Macaulay holds a B.
A. degree with honours industry, and has been with the company since its in Economics from City College of New York, founding in 1983. and an MBA from the Wharton School of the Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a University of Pennsylvania.
He has also received co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private anHonorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree equity buyout firm.
From 1972 to 1982, he served fromBaruch College.
as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer & Co. with direct responsibility for the firms buyout business.
He also served as president of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate 6.
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014.
Change and Emissions Management Corporation Patrice Merrin from 2009 to 2014.
She was also a member of the Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy Independent Environment and Communities Committee.
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and Non-Executive Director 2003 to 2006 was a member of Canadas Round Table Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the on the Environment and the Economy.
age 66 Canadian diversified miner, for 10 years until 2004, Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queens University, latterly as COO.
She then became CEO of Luscar, Ontario and completed the Advanced Management Canadas largest thermal coal producer.
She is Programme at INSEAD.
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater Mining NYSE:SWC and Novadaq Technologies Inc. Nasdaq:NVDQ.
She has been a director and then chairman of CML Healthcare then TSX from 2008-2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing solutions company, and of NB Power.
Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur 7.
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the Leonhard Fischer executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 Committees: Chairman of the Audit to March 2007.
He joined Credit Suisse Group from Independent Committee: member of the Nomination and Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the Remuneration Committees.
management board and head of the Corporates Non-Executive Director Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief and Markets Division.
Prior to this, he had been a age 52 executive officer of RHJ International S. A. member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG EBR:RHJI in January 2009, having been co-chief in Frankfurt.
He is chief executive Mr Fischer holds an M. A. in Finance from the officer of Kleinwort Benson Group and chairman of University of Georgia.
the board of directors of Kleinwort Benson Bank Ltd and BHF-Bank AG.
Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in In January 1990, he was made responsible for the 8.
April1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer worldwide coal business of Glencore for both Ivan Glasenberg sinceJanuary 2002. marketing and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he became Chief Executive Officer in Chief Executive Officer Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, January 2002.
age 58 Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from three years working in the coal commodity the University of Witwatersrand.
Mr Glasenberg department in South Africa as a marketer, before also holds an MBA from the University of Southern spending two years in Australia as head of the California.
He is currently a non-executive director Asian coal commodity division.
Between 1988 of United Company Rusal plc HKG:0486 and Pirelli and 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head & C. SpA MI:PECI.
Before joining Glencore, Mr of Glencores Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson well as head of coal marketing in Asia, where his Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal marketing business of Glencore and managing the administrative functions of the Hong Kong andBeijing offices.
Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company John Burton Secretary in September 2011.
Company Secretary Experience: He was formerly company secretary age 50 and general counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London specialising in corporate law.
A. degree in Law from Durham University.
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990.
