Chairmans statement It has been a significant and successful year for Go-Ahead.
We look forward to building on our success in the coming years.
Andrew Allner, Chairman Governance Dear Shareholder As a Board, we are committed to the principles of good governance.
Through It has been a significant and successful year for our robust internal framework of systems and controls, we strive to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance.
I am proud of In common with other public companies, this year we are meeting new what we have achieved, including securing the UKs standards of disclosure.
Our annual report has been considered by the Board, biggest rail franchise, delivering a strong financial which carefully considered the new requirement to present fair, balanced and performance and making further investment in understandable information.
greener buses, all while providing high standards We have taken seriously the spirit as well as the letter of the new regulations, which are intended to build trust between business and society through of service to our bus and rail passengers.
improved levels of transparency and disclosure, in which the UK is undoubtedly We have a clear strategy to increase the profitability of our existing business a world leader.
and to grow the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
This strategy, We have complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance which is underpinned by a stable business model, has delivered increased Code throughout the year ended 28 June 2014 as outlined in our corporate shareholder value in the year.
We have an experienced management team governance report on pages 52 to 67. in place and I am confident that together we will create further value by With the exception of Rupert Pennant-Reas retirement at last years Annual continuing to deliver against the Groups strategic priorities.
General Meeting, the membership of the Board has been consistent throughout the year.
Performance The Group performed well in the year to 28 June 2014.
We achieved record Board effectiveness and evaluation profits in our bus business, making steady progress towards our bus operating My priority as Chairman is to ensure the effectiveness of the Board and I profit target of 100m by 2015 16, and carried more passengers on our buses believe our key strength is a positive atmosphere around our Board table with and trains than ever before.
all directors demonstrating mutual trust and confidence, facilitating discussions Read about the performance of our bus and rail divisions from which are open and frank.
pages 38 to 45 This year the Board made good progress in delivering against its 2013 14 priorities and has clear objectives for the year ahead, which are detailed Dividend on page 53.
Over the last few years, the Board has been committed to maintaining the During the year, an internal evaluation of Board performance was conducted full year dividend, having recognised its importance to the investment decision by the Group Company Secretary.
The review sought to build upon and of many of our shareholders.
Reflecting the Boards confidence in the Groups enhance the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and of individual directors.
performance and prospects, we now believe that the time is right to resume I am pleased to report that no areas of material concern were highlighted, our policy of progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining dividend cover although a number of areas for improvement were identified.
The actions of approximately two times adjusted earnings, on a pre IAS19 revised basis, we have taken to enhance the Boards stewardship of the business are set through the economic cycle.
The Board is therefore proposing a final dividend out on page 59. of 59.0p per share 2013: 55.5p, making the total dividend for the year 84.5p per share 2013: 81.0p, an increase of 4.3%.
The final dividend is payable on Our people are the cornerstone of our success 14 November 2014 to shareholders registered at the close of business on Last year, I set myself an objective to visit all of the Groups operating 31 October 2014. companies in my first year as Chairman.
Having done so, I can say that without exception these businesses have impressed me with their can do culture and The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information commitment to excellence.
The dedication and hard work of our people Looking forward are the cornerstones of Go-Aheads success and I would like to thank every We are well equipped as a Group to manage the complexity and challenges in one of them for their enduring commitment and professionalism.
our industry, including the significant changes associated with beginning a major new franchise.
Our most important resource is our people who work tirelessly During the year, we intensified our focus on the Groups people plans to to anticipate and meet the needs of our customers, and I have every ensure that we attract, develop and retain the best people.
We also made confidence in our teams across the business.
Following an exciting year for considerable progress in improving the way we manage performance and Go-Ahead, we look forward to building on our success in the coming years.
This has, in turn, strengthened our culture and behaviours across the Group.
We recognise that a strong governance framework alone is not enough to achieve our long term ambitions.
These can only be achieved through strong leadership, a diverse and well-balanced Board and the right values and culture Andrew Allner, of our people.
Effective leadership development and succession planning are Chairman essential for sustainable success, in the Boardroom and through all levels of 3 September 2014 the organisation.
I firmly believe that diversity in all areas at all levels of the Group enhances our success.
We are aligned with the aims and objectives of the Davies Report on women on boards which recommends a minimum of 25% female board membership.
View gender diversity information on page 28 Our Nomination Committee searches for candidates from the widest possible pool, making appointments on the basis of merit against objective criteria, Economic contribution including the diversity of skills, experience, background and gender which Not only are we committed to generating shareholder value, are necessary for an effective board.
we also create wider economic benefits.
Read more about our people from pages 26 to 29 Read about how we create value through our business model on pages 10 and 11 Our role in society Our aim is to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we During the year, we made a direct contribution to the economy through the 12.4m we pay in UK corporation tax and the 64.0m operate and wider society.
First and foremost, we help people get to the places they want to be: connecting with family and friends, travelling to work or school we returned to the Government in net rail premium payments.
Indirectly, we supported economic growth through the employment and accessing retail and leisure facilities.
By attracting more people to use our services, we strengthen our business while increasing the role we play in our of 23,800 people: investing 0.9bn in staff costs, and by enabling millions of people to travel to work, shops and other key services society.
Through the provision of passenger transport we make a fundamental contribution to the economy.
and leisure activities every day.
Total revenue Commitment to transparent investor communications We have always been proud of our high standards of reporting.
Having adopted 2,702.4m an integrated approach last year, which provides a more holistic view of the Revenue 2,702.4m business, we were keen to make further improvements to the quality of our reporting.
Examples of improvements made this year include the introduction of commentary and explanations within the financial statements, the alignment Economic value retained by shareholders 70.3m and integration of the reporting of the Groups strategic priorities and sustainability areas, as well as providing clearer links between the Groups Payment to suppliers 1,538.7m remuneration policy and our performance and the significant achievements in the year.
Our remuneration policy is set out on pages 68 to 83.
Staff costs 929.2m Go-Ahead places great importance on effective, open and transparent 90 reporting.
The annual report is one of our key communications with shareholders Corporation tax payments to Government 12.4m and other stakeholders, and we consider its content and form with care.
Read more about our relations with shareholders on page 59 Finance costs 18.3m I am pleased our commitment to good reporting continued to be Capital expenditure 69.5m recognised during the year.
Go-Ahead was recognised at the PwC Building Public Trust Awards, receiving the Excellence in Reporting award for FTSE 250 Net rail contribution to DfT 64.0m businesses and we were delighted to top the list of the 4,000 publicly traded companies included in GMI Ratings review of trustworthy accounting and governance behaviour.
