Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RECORD RESULTS The total dividend for the year will be 28.4p per share, up 6.8%, maintaining our long-term track record of dividend growth.
Results Disposals People We have delivered a strong financial result We made further, significant progress on We now have 23,000 people working for for the year, achieving record sales and profit.
our non-core disposal plan in the year, selling, Greene King and every one of them has In a 53 week year, our revenue was up 8.9% or transferring to Retail, 148 sites, taking contributed to our success this year.
The to 1,301.6m and our operating profit before the Pub Partners estate down to 1,165 sites, dedication that they show on a daily basis, exceptional items was up 7.0% to 265.6m.
below what had been our strategic target of particularly when interacting directly Profit before tax and exceptional items was 1,200 sites.
The total proceeds raised from withour customers, is a key driver of our up 9.4% to 173.1m, while adjusted earnings disposals in the year were 38.4m, in line long-term record of growth.
Since the year end, we have sold 275 non-core Pub Partners pubs I would like to express my thanks to all of to Hawthorn Leisure, backed by May Capital, them for the work they have done during Dividend for 75.6m.
the year in helping us to deliver these strong As a result of another year of strong growth, results.
Going forward, they will remain the board has recommended a final dividend crucial to further success as we remain Board of 20.8p per share, up 6.9% on last year.
focused on delivering sustainable value Thistakes the total dividend for the year to In March, Matthew Fearn, our group creation for our shareholders.
The final dividend finance director, began a period of extended is expected to be paid on 15 September 2014 absence due to serious illness.
He has been to those shareholders on the register at the undergoing treatment and we are hopeful close of business on 15 August 2014. that he can make a full recovery.
While Tim Bridge Matthew is away, we have appointed David Chairman Brown, our corporate finance director, to 2 July 2014 Acquisitions fulfil the role of interim group finance director.
We continued to expand, and improve the In this role, David is attending all our board overall quality of, our Retail business.
We meetings, but is not a main board director.
added 48 sites to our Retail estate through acombination of acquisitions and transfers At the end of July, we will be saying goodbye from Pub Partners.
The total cost of acquiring from our board to John Brady.
He will have sites during the year was 24.3m.
At the served for nine years, during which time he year end, we had a Retail estate of 1,032 sites, has been a member of all three of the board up from 888 sites when we started our committees.
I would like to thank John for Retail expansion strategy in 2009. the contribution he has made through his independent views and valuable insight andwe wish him well in the future.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 5
