04 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans Statement 2014 has been a year of exceptional progress for Greggs In 2014 Greggs made exceptional progress.
The first steps in executing the strategy outlined in 2013 have surpassed expectations in favourable market conditions.
Our focus on the food-on-the-go market has resulted in accelerated like-for-like sales growth which, combined with structural cost reductions, has improved the Groups financial performance markedly.
There is more to do but we have started out very well on a journey designed to deliver a sustainable business model for long-term profitable growth.
Overview In 2014 the management team, led by Roger Whiteside, began to implement the strategy outlined in 2013 to focus the business more on the growing food-on-the-go market.
This strategic clarity, with a focus on customers and product innovation, We have started out very well on a has delivered encouraging initial results.
With some help from an improving economy and benign weather conditions we journey designed to deliver long-term have delivered a progressive improvement in like-for-like sales profitable growth.
whilst also putting in place a number of initiatives to make our operations measurably simpler and more efficient.
The Chief Executives review provides greater detail on the implementation of the strategic plan and the progress made against our key targets.
The Board There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year with the new team settling in well.
Helena Ganczakowski joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 2 January 2014, as did Peter McPhillips on 10 March 2014.
Julie Baddeley and Iain Ferguson retired at the AGM on 1 May 2014 following which Sandra Turner was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Sandra has assumed the roles of Remuneration Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director.
In 2014 the Boards priority has been to ensure that the strategy outlined in 2013 progressed to plan.
Further details of the Boards work can be found in the Governance and Committee sections of the Annual Report.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 Dividend and capital structure Prospects The business continues to generate strong cash flow from There is good momentum in the business and the near-term which it funds capital investment and returns to shareholders.
outlook for low cost inflation together with rising consumer The Company is now in a position to return to a progressive disposable incomes remains favourable.
Greggs has made dividend policy, with the Board targeting a dividend cover of a strong start with its new strategy but there is a significant around 2.0 times underlying earnings.
The Board therefore programme of change ahead as we continue to implement intends to recommend at the AGM a final dividend of 16.0p per our investment in products, shops, operations and systems share 2013: 13.5p, giving a total dividend for the year of 22.0p, to create the platform for long-term, sustainable, profitable an increase of 12.8% 2013: 19.5p.
The Company has an exceptional brand, strong financial position, an experienced management team and a loyal and The Board is completing a review of the appropriate capital committed workforce.
Building on the strong start I am confident structure of the Group for the medium term and further plans will that we can make further progress in the year ahead.
The Chief be provided at the time of the interim results.
The Board intends Executives review contains further details.
to target a capital structure that: Ian Durant is both prudent and efficient: Chairman takes into account the expected performance of the business, 4 March 2015 the investment opportunities and other cash requirements of the Group: and allows the Group to run a net cash position throughout the year.
Given the leasehold nature of the store portfolio, the Board does not currently believe that it is appropriate to take on debt in the near to medium term.
The Board has already identified that it has the capacity to return up to 10 million to shareholders in the first half of 2015 and will do so through a resumption of its share buyback programme.
Our people and values The organisational changes implemented in Greggs last year had a significant impact on our people.
These changes were necessary for the long-term health of the business and the Board is satisfied that the management team carried out the implementation sensitively in line with our long-standing values of fairness, consideration and respect.
My thanks to everyone who has worked for Greggs during the past year.
Working in our shops, bakeries and support teams presents many challenges every day and I am grateful for the outstanding dedication and perseverance of all of our employees.
Greggs celebrated its 75-year anniversary last year and in that time has earned a widely-recognised reputation for its contribution to the communities in which it trades.
We are particularly proud of our activities and continue to make good progress in the areas of social responsibility that are described in the Annual Report.
