CoM H Ha alf lfo or rd ds s G Gr roup oup p pl lc C s sto toC ck k C co od fide e: : H hfd fd a an nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt a t an nd a d aC cC co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 strateGiC report oVerVieW CHairMans letter Our mission is to Help and Inspire our Customers ouR mission is to with their Life on the Move.
Each element of our strategy, which has the customer at the forefront, Help and inspire our has been pursued with vigour in both our Retail CustoMers WitH tHeir and Autocentres businesses.
In essence, the thrust of our strategy is: to bring about a step change in life on tHe MoVe.
the quality of our service offer to our customers by investing in colleague training, staffing and capability: each element of ouR reasserting our authority in our key product and services categories: investing in our store and stRateGy, which has Autocentres standards and estates and in our the CustoMer at tHe systems: and creating a more contemporary and competitive omnichannel offer.
The report that follows forefront, has Been sets out the progress we are making and what still needs to be done.
PuRsued with viGouR Transparent measurement of our progress is critical, in Both ouR Retail as is linking this to our remuneration and incentive and autocentRes structures throughout the organisation.
In the report we have also set out in detail our Shareholder, Retail Businesses.
and Autocentre KPIs and our performance this year In May 2013 we set out the Getting into Gear at pages 52 to 63.
strategy for our Retail business that we would pursue However, most heartening has been the improvement and the growth plans for our Autocentre business.
in our service delivery with customer response, We are now a year into the journey and progress as measured by our Net Promoter Scores NPS, has been very encouraging across a broad front.
showing a significant and sustained improvement in may 2013 we set The ride so far has been exciting, the pace high and across both businesses.
Given where we were a year out the GettinG into the year has been very busy, touching all parts of ago this is particularly pleasing.
Once again, there is Halfords.
The response of our colleagues has been still some way to go.
Gear strateGy foR enthusiastic and heartening.
Their engagement The financial performance of Retail was better than with the many initiatives that Matt Davies and his ouR Retail Business we had expected at the commencement of the executive team have introduced has been infectious year.
Retail sales of 803m were up 7.6% on a that we would PuRsue and this has begun to have the desired effect: like-for-like LFL basis with a stellar performance in increasingly engaged, well trained and committed the Cycling category with LFL sales rising 19.4%.
and the GroWtH plans colleagues serve our customers better.
There is still Car Maintenance was up 4.9% and online sales, a way to go but I would like to commence this letter foR ouR autocentRe primarily Click & Collect, rose a healthy 17.7%.
Retail by thanking all of our c. 12,000 colleagues for a job gross margin was down as we cleared inventory, Business.
indd 11 12 06 2014 14:21:02 sHareHolder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview GETTING INTO GEAR INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 MARCH 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS LETTER CONTINUED as planned, and due to the strong growth of the to achieve the right levels and product ranges was lower-margin Cycling category.
Despite these outlays and a one-off tax rose, commensurate with the significant investment payment of 21.0m, cash flow was once again we made, and are making, in the training and robust and net debt decreased to 99.6m with development of our colleagues, better colleague gearing at a comfortable 1.0 times net debt:EBITDA.
store and centre coverage, higher activity levels and Group underlying profit before tax of 72.8m increased incentives as most operational and strategic is marginally up on last year but exceeded our milestones were reached.
This resulted in Retail expectations set out over a year ago.
Earnings per operating profit of 75.2m for the year, up 2.2%.
share before non-recurring items of 28.8p were up Driving the progress and performance of the Retail 4% and the Board is recommending a final dividend business is largely a new management team that of 9.1p, taking the total for the year to 14.3p.
It is our Matt brought together during the year.
Andrew intention to maintain a c. 2x dividend cover over the Findlay Finance & IT and Jonathan Crookall medium term, growing full-year dividends broadly in People, who have been with the Company for line with earnings per share.
over three years, were joined by Rob Swyer Retail One of the most truly inspiring aspects of the year Stores, Emma Fox Commercial Marketing Digital has been the involvement by colleagues at all levels and Jason Keegan Supply Chain.
The impact of the in a large number of community initiatives.
For new team has been immediate and effective.
INVESTMENT IN example, a partnership was forged with Re Cycle, a The financial performance of Autocentres was charity that collects and ships second-hand bicycles OUR STORES, disappointing.
Sales increased by 8.6%, boosted to community networks in Africa.
There the bicycles by an increase of 23 to 303 centres during the year, are repaired, thereby providing employment, and are INFRASTRUCTURE AND with LFL sales down 0.1%.
Despite an increase in then made available to disadvantaged communities.
gross margin, operating profit decreased 2.0m to Through two events, customers responded COLLEAGUES OF SOME 4.3m.
Midway through the year there was a change generously by donating over 10,000 of their old 100M OVER THE NEXT in leadership and Andrew Findlay temporarily took bikes to this cause.
Kids Holiday Bike Club events over the reins and successfully began a process were held in-store where children were taught how THREE YEARS REMAINS of gradual improvement.
He has now handed over to maintain their bikes and road safety: the response the baton to Andy Randall who joined us in March was fantastic and over 20,000 children and parents ON TRACK.
The business is now travelling better than this attended.
Halfords has also been confirmed as the time last year and Andy will be given the time and Official Mechanics Partner for the 2014 Sky Ride resource to get under the bonnet of the business.
Big Bike series, spanning 14 events nationwide and In November we will present a fresh view of the way supporting over 100,000 cyclists this summer.
were also many other local events and the buzz that these community activities produce throughout Investment in our stores, infrastructure and Halfords is tangible: it is no doubt that it was one of colleagues of some 100m over the three years in the key factors that saw our colleagues vote Halfords our Getting into Gear plan remains on track.
In the as one of the Top 25 Best Big UK Companies to year, 30.4m of spend on stores, IT infrastructure Work For.
and on new Autocentres was outlaid, some 12.0m more than the previous year.
In addition, an incremental investment of 17.0m in Retail inventory 12 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
com Halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 It is a joy and a privilege to chair the Halfords Board The new financial year has started positively and the 1 and to work with Matt and his team.
It is therefore progress being made with all aspects of our strategy with sadness that we say goodbye to Bill Ronald continues apace.
The ambitious targets we set at the 2 and Keith Harris who leave the Board at the end outset of the Getting into Gear Retail strategy remain of May 2014 after 10 years service.
Both joined at both valid and achievable.
the initial listing of Halfords in 2004 and have been a source of much sound advice and support to me Dennis Millard BeloW and fellow Board members, for which I thank them.
Chairman 1 Enhanced car It gives me pleasure to welcome Helen Jones who 21 May 2014 maintenance product joined the Board in March 2014.
a senior executive at Caff Nero and, prior to that, 2 Improved layout in was CEO of the Zizzi Restaurants group and was refreshed store.
also responsible for successfully launching the Ben & opposite Jerrys brand in the UK and Europe.
She will provide Enthusiasts increasingly valuable brand positioning and marketing and attracted to Halfords.
experience in managing multiple-outlet networks.
Read more: re CyCle Page 44 13 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
indd 13 12 06 2014 14:21:06 sHareHolder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 a yeaR of solid PRoGRess GettinG into Gear 14 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 strateGiC report strateGy Chief Executives Introduction 16 At a Glance 20 Markets 22 Group Strategy 24 Retail Strategy Getting into Gear 26 Service Revolution 28 The H Factor 31 Stores Fit to Shop 34 st 21 Century Infrastructure 36 Click with the Digital Future 38 Autocentre Strategy 40 Milestones 42 Sustainability 44 The Strategic Report on pages 15 to 67 has been approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2014.
Matt Davies Chief Executive 21 May 2014 Read more ONL NE halfords.
indd 15 12 06 2014 14:21:09 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
