Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans Statement When I was first approached about the opportunity to chair Halma, I have to admit that I knew very little about the Company.
That in itself tells you something about the business, as Halma has always been somewhat understated, relying on the natural evolution of its business fundamentals to grow.
Halmas ambitions to grow are clearly communicated in its engagement with the investment community.
There are no hidden principles guiding the Group, just a strong dedication to the business model with a large reliance on the autonomy of the operations.
This approach is rewarded with shareholders who share the same values as Halma and who reinforce our dedication to our business model through their longer-term investment.
Therefore in this, my first report as your Chairman, I am delighted to report another strong performance by Halma achieving record revenue and profit for the eleventh consecutive year.
Structured for sustainable growth During this last year the Board spent time discussing how the business should be organised to maximise the growth opportunities in our marketplaces.
We considered the breadth of management Paul Walker control across the Group and concluded that the time had come to Chairman align our Executive Board with the four market sectors that we are engaged in.
We continue to believe that it is important to maintain the flat management structure that has played a large part in underpinning the operational excellence and control of the Group for many years.
Halmas growth in recent years has demonstrated a strong dedication that it is possible to replicate the Groups traditional management structure within each sector after all, our sectors are now roughly the size that Halma was just ten years ago!
to the business model Structuring management and the businesses in this way will broaden our M&A search activity as well as making Halma a more transparent with a large reliance prospect for the owners and management of potential acquisition opportunities.
The ability to identify suitable acquisitions is an important part of our long-term business model.
I am satisfied that on the autonomy of we have maintained, and indeed enhanced, what makes Halma an attractive home for successful businesses.
These changes also mean that additional internal collaboration opportunities are more likely to be pursued.
I plan to report on the additional added value from internal collaboration in next years annual report.
During the year we created the new role of Group Talent Director reporting to Andrew Williams and with a position on the Executive Board.
This will improve the Companys ability to identify talent both internally and externally, ensuring that we have strong teams in all of our businesses coupled with an effective management succession planning culture.
I am delighted to welcome Jennifer Ward to Halma who was appointed to this role in March 2014.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3 Chairmans Statement Governance As Chairman of Halma, I am tasked with ensuring that the Board the Board maintains maintains a focused and disciplined approach to governance and I am delighted to say that the task is made easier by the leadership afocused and disciplined evidenced at all levels of the Group.
In saying that, I do acknowledge that we need to improve on our diversity objectives across all of our businesses in the Group and that this will continue to be a focus for approach to governance both the plc and Executive Boards.
Due to recent changes in their business commitments, Lord Blackwell and Steve Marshall will not be seeking re-election to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to thank them both for the significant contribution they have made to the Halma Board and also the support that they have provided to me in my first year as Chair.
Performance and dividend I would like to thank Andrew Williams, the Executive Board and each I am delighted to announce that Roy Twite will be joining the of Halmas employees around the world: each has played their part Board following the conclusion of the AGM on 24 July 2014. this year in delivering value for shareholders in another chapter in the Roy is an executive director at IMI plc and brings very relevant story of Halma.
engineering experience to the Halma Board.
Stephen Pettit has I am pleased to report that revenue for the year increased by 9% to agreed to the Boards request to remain on the Halma Board up 1 677m with adjusted profit before tax increasing by 9% to 140m.
until the 2015 annual general meeting.
The Board is in the process In a year in which there were fewer acquisitions, this is a of seeking to identify an additional non-executive Director.
Further information on Corporate Governance is included on pages 59 to 65.
The Boards confidence in the Group is reflected in us recommending a final dividend of 6.82p per share giving a total dividend for the year Acquisitions and disposal of 11.17p, an increase of 7%.
The final dividend is subject to approval The Group concluded only one acquisition this year after acquiring by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014 and will be paid on six businesses in the previous year on which we spent 137m.
20 August 2014 to shareholders on the register at 18 July 2014.
Our acquisition pipeline remains good.
The three acquisitions This marks the 35th consecutive year of dividend increases of concluded after our financial year end demonstrate that we cannot 5% or more.
predict when our efforts will come to fruition although this also gives me comfort that the disciplines and due diligence surrounding acquisitions Summary are not unduly accelerated, but fully performed and considered.
As a 2014 has been another successful year for Halma with solid organic Board, we evaluate each investment opportunity onits merits and growth and positive contributions from recent acquisitions helping ensure that each is the right use of our financial resources.
to achieve record results for the eleventh successive year.
The restructuring of our Executive Board, aligning it more closely with Pensions our four sectors, will give us a clearer market focus.
I believe this will During the year, the Board authorised the cessation of future benefit continue to help us to achieve our longer-term strategic objectives accrual in the two remaining UK Defined Benefit pension plans in as well as continuing to drive organic growth in the business.
Whilst this provides the Company with a less volatile financial impact in the years ahead, I wanted to let each of the long-serving Group employees affected by this change know that Paul Walker this was not an easy decision to reach.
The Board considered the Chairman volatility of pension funding and accounting alongside market practice outside Halma, harmonisation of Group benefits and upcoming changes to National Insurance contributions.
We concluded that discontinuance of this benefit, balanced with transitional measures, was in the best interests of shareholders.
4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
