38HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CHAirmAnS StAtement ALAn tHomSon CHAirmAn deAr SHAreHoLder Board colleagues are keen that we make the across the globe.
The roles they perform Our report to you this year is the first right appointment to support the needs of day in, day out make Hays the success it prepared under the 2012 edition of the UK the business as the Company builds on the is today, so it is pleasing to note a further Corporate Governance Code the Code.
platform for growth it has so successfully improvement in the results this year from Hays continues to have a strong governance established, and we will announce as soon our annual employee engagement survey.
framework that ensures your Board acts with as we are able what addition, or additions, to 2014 has been a strong year for the Group.
The your Board we are making.
We are committed We have delivered a strong financial Company has at its core an understanding of to the principles of diversity, in all its forms, performance, leading to an increase in our the standards of behaviour that are expected and will always take them into account during core dividend.
We have made progress by shareholders, and other stakeholders, our recruitment and selection processes, against our strategic and operational and as Chairman of your Board, it is very notwithstanding that we will always seek priorities and the Board remains focused important to me that we lead by example and to appoint the most suitablecandidate.
on ensuring that the Group remains at set the standard expected of our colleagues Ensuring the Board has the right composition the forefront of our industry, and is well throughout the organisation.
I am pleased is only one aspect of its effective performance.
positioned to capitalise on the many to report that we have complied with the In 2013 we commissioned an external opportunities for growth which lie ahead.
Code throughout the year and further evaluation of the Board, out of which some With technology advancing every day, detail can be found in the Corporate very useful suggestions to further improve digitalisation very much at the heart of how GovernanceStatement.
One of we as individuals live our daily lives, and At our forthcoming Annual General Meeting these related to the Boards role, in particular broader innovations in technology connecting William Eccleshare will be retiring from his that of its non-executive members, myself people more and more seamlessly, the Hays position as a non-executive director.
William included, in further developing the of today looks very different to the Hays of was appointed to the Board in November Companys strategic direction, and I was only four years ago when I joined the Board, 2004 and has made an immense particularly pleased with the feedback and we must continue to develop and adapt.
contribution, not only to the Company and received regarding the Boards Strategy The Groups appetite for risk and the the Board, but also to me in my four years Away Day held in 2014.
There was unanimous framework within which that is managed as Chairman.
The world is an ever-changing approval from the Board to the revised is closely monitored by the Board and we place and the market in which Hays operates approach taken at this event, and this paved will continue to ensure that we achieve and around which it has built the strong the way for yet further development, the returns our shareholders expect in business it is today, has had to adapt to new identified in this years Board evaluation.
challenges and developing trends: Williams The division of roles and relationship between I look forward to meeting any shareholders international marketing and brand executive and non-executive members of any who can join us at our AGM in November, knowledge, coupled with his business board is critical to its effective operation and and extend my thanks to you all for your acumen and insight, during his tenure has is a firm foundation of effective governance continued support as we look forward to been immeasurable.
I would like to extend and accountability.
I am proud of the the year ahead.
William my personal thanks, and those of the relationship between these two parts of the Board, for his wise counsel and contribution ALAn tHomSon Hays Board and as Chairman I will continue to the Company: he takes with him our best Chairman to ensure an open and effective working wishes for the future.
relationship underpins all we do.
28 August 2014 We are making good progress in recruiting Hays is a people business, in all senses, an additional non-executive director to fill and I wanted to extend my thanks to my the seat being vacated by William.
I and my colleagues throughout the organisation, Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 38HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 39 our governAnCe frAmework The Board retains certain matters for its own in nature, or which have been agreed Responsibility for good governance preserve: other specific responsibilities are in principle by the Board: such matters rests with the Board: this is delegated to its principal committees, namely require a meeting of three directors, with underpinned by an effective the Audit Committee, the Remuneration an appropriate mix of executives and nonCommittee and the Nomination Committee.
Such matters are reported governance framework which, Each of these Committees operates within to the full Board.
theBoard believes, fits the defined terms of reference, which are The Chairman of each Committee reports to requirements of Hays business.
available on the Companys website.
The the Board on its proceedings, and minutes of Board has also delegated to a subthe meetings are available as appropriate.
Committee certain matters which are routine boArd of direCtorS Set standards, values, policies and strategic aims Responsible for the overall Ensure we have the resources in place to meet our objectives management of the organisation of our business Monitor and review material strategic issues, financial performance andriskmanagement turn to PAge 44 nominAtion Committee Audit Committee remunerAtion Committee Make recommendations to the Board Review and monitor financial Set, review and recommend overall on its composition and that of its statements remuneration policy and strategy Committees Oversee external audit Review and approve remuneration turn to PAge 50 arrangements for executive directors Review internal audit plans and senior management turn to PAge 52 turn to PAge 60 CHief exeCutive mAnAgement boArd Day-to-day management of our business and operations, responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business turn to PAge 44
