Strategic Financial Other HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2014 report Governance statements information 23 Chairmans statement Our governance Employees At HellermannTyton, we recognise that good corporate governance HellermannTyton has a first-class team which is empowered to take gives our shareholders assurance that the Company is being ownership of day-to-day operational decision making.
This was managed effectively, with the right safeguards, checks and balances particularly noticeable when I and the other Board members underpinning the strategic direction of the business.
The Corporate visited the Groups Milwaukee location to see personally how Governance report starting on page 24, together with the reports HellermannTytons worldwide employees are working hard to of our Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees, explain maximise customer penetration and increase efficiency throughout how the UK Corporate Governance Code has been applied by the business.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for the Company and has shaped our decision making as a Board the diligence, commitment and good judgement they have shown throughout 2014. throughout the year to make the success of HellermannTyton possible.
As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board, Changes to the Board which regularly meets to debate and examine the Companys: 2014 also saw Doughty Hanson, who listed the Company in 2013, performance and progress against the annual business plan: sell their remaining shareholding in HellermannTyton and the business development and acquisition opportunities: resignation of their representative Director, Alex Moss, from the Board.
Although this has not disrupted the appropriate balance of strategy in the light of market risks and challenges: Non-executive to Executive Directors, the departure of Alex has investment in global infrastructure and innovation: prompted our Nomination Committee to begin searching for a new Non-executive Director to bring fresh perspective and challenge to people, including how we can develop our management team the Board dynamic, and further details about this can be found in and retain the best talent: and the Nomination Committee report starting on page 28. succession planning for the Board and senior management to protect the business for the future.
Summary All of these discussions are underpinned by legal and regulatory As the Chief Executive reports on page 4, HellermannTyton has had considerations, and we firmly believe that our framework of corporate another strong year of profitable growth, which has enabled the governance facilitates prudent management that can deliver long-term Board to recommend a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share.
This is success for the benefit of our shareholders.
an increase of 7.6% over the final dividend paid for 2013 and I believe that the Group will continue to build on this growth in 2015.
Investor relations This year has seen HellermannTyton settle into its new arena as a listed David Newlands company and the executive team focus on giving our shareholders Chairman greater insight into how we run our business.
In September, an investor day was held at the Groups Tornesch location to show our institutional shareholders the breadth of our product range and the innovative steps that we take to meet our customers ever-increasing demand for cable management solutions and stay ahead of the competition.
This was welcomed by all those who attended and who found it particularly useful to see first-hand our strong design and development capabilities.
Accordingly, we plan to hold similar events for our shareholders in future.
