FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 7 Chairmans statement Home Retail Group is in a sound financial position thanks to a good set of financial results and its continued focus on liquidity.
Home Retail Group is in a sound financial I am pleased to be able to report that the Group position thanks to a good set of financial results has delivered benchmark EPS growth of 35% and its continued focus on liquidity.
In this for the financial year.
Whilst this is a good context the Board is mindful of both the performance, we are determined to continue to investment needs of the Group and of the improve pro t levels, but it is gratifying for the importance of the dividend to our shareholders Board and for all our colleagues working in the and, after careful consideration, the Board is business to see improving trends.
recommending a final dividend of 2.3p and thus Good like-for-like sales growth at both Argos a full-year dividend of 3.3p.
This represents a and Homebase contributed to the improved 10% increase against the previous year.
performance, which was supported by continued I commented last year on the contribution control of costs and facilitated by the financial colleagues make both to their local communities support offered to customers by our Financial and at a national level.
Last year I recorded that Services operation.
Signi cantly, this Alzheimers Society had been chosen by our improvement was achieved against an economic John Coombe colleagues to be our charity partner.
Already over background where wage growth continued to lag Chairman 1 million has been raised for the charity and in ation, squeezing consumers discretionary importantly the Group, through colleagues spending power.
In this environment, much efforts, is doing much to help and support those praise is due to our colleagues across the Group with Alzheimers and to enable them to carry on who have worked so hard to deliver customer as normally as possible with their lives.
satisfaction and the improvement in both In closing, as well as thanking my fellow operational and financial results that is directors for their support, I wish to pay tribute to emerging.
I thank them on behalf of the Board Terry Duddy who, over 15 years, the last seven as and the shareholders.
Chief Executive of Home Retail Group, has The Groups focus on cash management has contributed so much to the Group.
Terry has led been essential in the years since 2008 when Home Retail Group since its separation from many retailers succumbed to economic and GUS in 2006 and has been the face of the Group financial pressures.
It is no less essential now through one of the toughest economic and as we fund, from our own resources, investment financial crises the world has seen for many in the Argos Transformation plan and the years.
It is tting that he leaves the Group well Homebase Renewal plan.
We are still very much placed to build on its recent improved in the investment phase of the Transformation performance.
We wish Terry every success plan, a five-year plan where bene ts are in the future.
expected to be delivered principally in the later In bidding farewell to Terry, I also want to years.
Progress is being made, but there is much welcome John Walden to the Board as our new more to be done, and meanwhile we continue to Chief Executive.
John has been running Argos maintain our focus on the trading performance for the last two years and now assumes of both businesses.
