Chairmans statement order of 60m per annum over the next three OVERVIEW 08 years.
Mark Robson discusses our investment 2014 was a notable year for Howdens, and programme in more detail on page 17. one in which we made significant progress on a number of fronts.
A milestone was For some years we have also been exploring reached with sales of over 1 billion.
Gross the prospects for Howdens beyond the UK.
We margin continued to improve and strong have effected a step change in the profitability cash generation resulted in the further of our French depots and we believe the strengthening of our balance sheet.
We time is right to build on the nucleus of our have identified more opportunities to take French business.
We are also drawing on our Howdens business further forward, and experience to test our way forward in Belgium we are well placed so to do.
Over the course and Holland.
of the year we took important steps to develop the organisation, and its talent, ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT that will allow us to make the most of In May, following a review of our structure these significant opportunities.
and capabilities, we announced a number of organisational changes designed to support the STRATEGIC PROGRESS continuing growth and development of Howdens.
During 2014 we increased our focus on improving the performance of our depots and Mark Robson was appointed Deputy Chief of our supply operations through mobilising Executive, and is now responsible for the dayour managers and their teams and engaging to-day management of the business.
Matthew them in our shared objective to build a Ingle continues in his role as Chief Executive, business that we can all be proud of that will focusing on the further development and continue to deliver value to all concerned for implementation of our strategy, and in particular many years to come.
on the culture and the values of the business that have served Howdens so well and will Howdens is now operating on a very large underpin our future success.
scale in a world that grows more complex every day.
Managing this combination of scale and This powerful combination of Matthew and Mark complexity successfully is our primary task.
is supported by Rob Fenwick, who spearheaded the restructuring of Howdens' supply operations We have developed a strategic plan for from 2005 and leads the supply division, and Howdens to 2020 and beyond.
This plan Andy Witts, a co-founder of the business and envisages the further development of our UK leader of the depot management team.
Together, operations through continuing improvements our senior executives are leading the work of in the performance of existing depots and organisational and talent development and significant further expansion of our depot recruitment that is essential to the long-term network to take advantage of new opportunities sustainability of the business.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS It follows that it is a priority to make sure that Our stated intention is an earnings per share nothing interrupts the continuing availability of based dividend cover of between 2.5 and 3.0 stock to our depots.
We are therefore stepping times, with one-third of the previous years up our investment in manufacturing, distribution dividend being paid as an interim dividend for and infrastructure as the business grows.
particular, we plan to invest in new warehousing facilities and in the resilience of our operations Given the operational performance of the to support future growth.
We expect capital business and the level of cash generation in expenditure across the business to be in the 2014, the Board is proposing a final dividend Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 in respect of the year of 6.5p per share, giving importance of our values, of fair dealing and of a total dividend of 8.4p per share for 2014 personal, local accountability.
We work to make sure these values are We have said that we are targeting a capital reflected in the way we treat individuals, in our 09 structure that is both prudent and recognises interactions with the wider community and in the inherent leverage in the business and, the work we do to reduce our environmental after considering our capital requirements, impact.
In all of these areas, we aim to will return surplus capital to shareholders as implement standards that will deliver lasting appropriate.
The Group has significant property benefits.
A detailed report on our corporate leases for the depot network, and continues to responsibilities can be found on pages 22 have a material defecit in the Group pension to 27. fund and a small number of legacy liabilities related to the Groups former ownership of 2014 was an extremely busy year for Howdens MFI.
Taking into account this underlying level and one which placed considerable demands of gearing, the Board continues to believe that on our people and, in turn, on their families.
it is appropriate for the Group to be able to I am sure that you would wish me to place operate throughout the working capital cycle on record our great appreciation of their without incurring bank debt.
Against this background, the Board has LOOKING AHEAD reviewed the Groups cash balances in light Howdens has undergone a major transition in of our future investment opportunities, the last five years.
Since 2009, profits have anticipated peak working capital requirements more than doubled, as have earnings per share, and the trading outlook.
As a result it and the balance sheet has been transformed.
has decided to return 70m of cash to Legacy pressures have been overcome, our shareholders by way of a share repurchase strategic flexibility has considerably increased programme.
This will commence shortly and and we see good prospects for the further will be implemented over the course of the development of the business.
Looking ahead, we expect that the strong BOARD COMPOSITION cash generation that is a feature of Howdens The Board functions as a small but effective business model will enable us both to pay team and I am indebted to my fellow directors attractive dividends to shareholders and to for their hard work and commitment to the make the substantial capital investments Group.
In particular I would like to thank necessary to make the most of the many Michael Wemms, our Senior Independent opportunities we have identified within and Director, for his work as Chair of the beyond the UK.
Remuneration Committee, a role which has now been taken on by Tiffany Hall.
Michael and The environment in which we operate is I have both served on the Board for eight years constantly changing.
We remain confident in and the Board is therefore giving consideration the resilience and flexibility of the Howdens to the appointment of our successors.
In my model, and it goes without saying that we will case, the transition to my replacement will continue to adapt rapidly to suit economic and be overseen by Michael.
The Board is also market conditions and to manage the business considering the merits of appointing a further in the fashion that has served us so well over non-executive director.
A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS I firmly believe that Howdens commitment to Will Samuel growth and development must be matched Chairman by a continued focus on being a responsible 25 February 2015 company.
Our business model emphasises the
