Chairmans statement The year has seen continued significant development of the Maintaining high standards of corporate governance are important Groups strategy, especially the strong licensing activity in our for ensuring that the Group develops and is managed effectively.
three key IP areas of multimedia, processor and communications.
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors last As a result the customer base has grown significantly and year we have conducted an external Board evaluation to identify provides a stronger and broader base for future unit and revenue areas for further development.
It is also appropriate to mention at growth.
While royalty volumes did not show the development we this point that it is planned that this will be the last time I will write have seen in previous years, we are confident that the design the Chairmans Statement.
I joined Imagination as it demerged wins achieved during the year will result in strong growth in unit and floated in 1994 and have had the honour to be your Chairman shipments in future years.
I am extremely proud to have had this opportunity to participate in some way in what has been an exciting British The integration of the MIPS business has progressed well and technology enterprise and to be associated with an outstanding customer response and interest in this and the comprehensive team of people.
I must give huge credit for the success of range of technologies we have to offer give us great confidence the Group and its exciting progress to our executives and the for the future.
This acquisition will contribute significant value to remainder of the staff that now numbers over 1,600 employees.
Their creativity, desire for success and commitment to quality Our three key silicon IP families, which we continue to develop, aligned with exceptional efforts continue to be the foundation of enable us to support our customers with market-specific solutions our achievements.
Our IP and the platforms they enable are of strong I plan to retire and we have already a process in train to find and interest to established global players as well as innovative new hire my replacement.
It is not possible yet to put a fixed timescale organizations.
other than we plan that this is my last year and as soon as the In this context Pures role creating and driving new technologies next Chairman is identified it will be announced and an orderly continues to have a fundamental place in the Groups strategy transition effected.
The launch of the Jongo wireless speaker Thank you for your keen continued interest and I personally thank products in multiple international markets is symptomatic of this you for your loyal support and the encouragement I have had from and has led to a number of licenses and licensing opportunities all stakeholders these last 20 years.
for the technology segment of our business to exploit.
It is true that tougher markets for DAB have impacted on the performance of the Pure division and we have taken steps to align the business and the cost base to reflect this.
It is important that this broadening role of Pure should be properly seen in the strategic context of how we wish to position our platform enabling and Geoff Shingles other technologies in the remainder of the decade.
Chairman We continue to make important investments in our facilities to provide an effective working environment for our staff.
The second of the three phase redevelopment of our Head Office campus is now complete.
These investments are essential to secure the continued development of our leading world class technology solutions.
The third and final phase will start shortly and will complete in 2015.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 3 Innovation comes from Imagination Abbreviations explained DAB Digital Audio Broadcast MCU Micro Controller Unit CPU Central Processing Unit GPU Graphics Processing Unit ODM Original Design Manufacturer LTE Long Term Evolution OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer SDK Software Development Kit API Application Programming Interface IP Intellectual Property DOK Design Optimization Kit SoC System on Chip 4
