4 4 IMI plc Chairmans Statement A year of good progress 2014 was a year of good progress for the Group.
In particular, in the first half of the year we undertook a detailed strategic review of all our activities and developed a robust growth plan to harness the Groups full potential and deliver accelerated growth and long-term shareholder value.
Results overview After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 96m and for acquisitions and disposals, Group revenues on an organic basis increased by 2%.
Group revenues on a reported basis were down 3% to 1,692m 2013: 1,743m.
On a like for like basis, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of 18m, segmental operating profit decreased slightly by 1%.
Segmental operating profit on a reported basis was 7% lower at 298m 2013: 322m.
The Groups operating margin was 17.7% 2013: 18.4% reflecting our investment in a range of growth initiatives.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 7% to 78.0p 2013: 72.6p principally as a result of the share consolidation in the first quarter of the year.
Based on these results, and reflecting continued confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by 7% to 24.0p Roberto Quarta 2013: 22.5p.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 37.6p, an increase of 7% Chairman over last years 35.3p.
Strategic developments During the first half of 2014 Mark Selway, who became Chief Executive in January 2014, initiated a detailed review of all aspects of the Groups business.
The findings of this review together with the Groups new strategic plan was announced in August at the time of the interim results.
Our new strategic plan, details of which are set out on pages 8 to 23 of this Annual Report, is focused on harnessing IMIs full potential to drive accelerated growth and build long-term shareholder value.
The opportunities are significant and that is reflected in our ambition to double the Groups operating profits over the next five years, while retaining our financial discipline.
I am pleased to report that the strategic plan is now embedded in all our businesses and a number of its initiatives are already beginning to deliver real benefits.
Mark, in his Chief Executives review on pages 8 and 9, will cover these positive developments in more detail but by way of example I would like to mention some of the operational improvements I have seen first-hand.
Improving both our competitiveness and our efficiency are key elements of our plan and, in particular, ensuring that we have in place the most effective operational processes.
In July last year I visited our Hydronic Engineerings Fllinsdorf plant in Switzerland and was delighted to see the team implementing key elements of our new plan including adopting new processes to accelerate new product development, help reduce working capital and enhance competitiveness, all of which were delivering positive results.
During the year we further increased our focus on specialist flow control activities.
On 1 January 2014 we completed the sale of the Retail Dispense and Merchandising divisions to the Marmon Group for an enterprise value of $1,100m 690m and subsequently returned 620m of cash to shareholders.
Additionally, in October, we sold the non-core Eley businesses for 42m and in November 2014 we announced the acquisition of the power generation valve specialist, Bopp & Reuther, for a cash Group Overview Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 consideration of e153m 118m.
This acquisition, which Finally, following the announcement of my appointment to the completed at the beginning of 2015, is a significant and Board of WPP plc, I confirmed that I intend to step down as important first step in our acquisitive growth plan.
An external search for my successor enhances our presence in the growing power market and is well underway, led by Anita Frew, and I will be remaining with increases our Critical Engineering divisions growth prospects.
IMI until your new Chairman is identified.
Board changes Our people In September 2014 we announced the retirement of Douglas IMI is a very special Company with many strengths worldclass engineering skills, long standing customer relationships Hurt as Finance Director.
Douglas has been in the role since and great people.
The progress we have made this year has 2006 and has played a major part in IMIs development over involved a great deal of hard work and I would like to take the course of the last eight years.
Douglas will be succeeded this opportunity to thank all our employees for their ongoing by Daniel Shook who joined us in January 2015 and who commitment, passion and support.
will become Finance Director on 1 March 2015.
Daniel was previously Chief Finance Officer at Borealis AG and brings with him over 20 years of financial management experience across a Summary range of industrial sectors and a strong international perspective.
I have been proud to be your Chairman.
Since I joined in 2011 Ross McInnes joined the Board as a non-executive director much progress has been made preparing the Group for the on 1 October 2014.
He took over as Chairman of the Audit next phase of its development.
The Group has adopted a Committee on 1 January 2015 after Phil Bentley stepped new strategic growth plan, strengthened the Board with down from the Board at the end of the year.
Anita Frew, new director appointments and recruited Mark Selway as our senior independent director, will retire after nine years the new Chief Executive.
IMI is now on a positive track to as a non-executive at the Annual General Meeting AGM in deliver sustainable accelerated top and bottom line growth.
Bob Stack will succeed Anita as senior independent I wish Mark, his team and everyone at IMI much success in the future.
director immediately following the AGM.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Anita, Douglas and Phil for the significant contributions they have all made to the Board and IMI.
