CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The acquisition will be debt nanced and is subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring of 2015.
This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will transform our USA operations, diversify our pro t stream and create signi cant value for our shareholders.
Capital Discipline In July we also completed a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish Stock Market as part of our commitment to capital discipline, selling approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a consideration of 395 million net of fees 518 million.
The proceeds helped reduce our adjusted net debt by 1 billion.
This signi cant reduction was also driven by foreign exchange bene ts and a focus on more effectively managing working capital, which further reinforces our drive to embed stronger capital discipline in the business.
Operating Responsibly The responsible way we run our business is integral to our Mark Williamson Chairman long-term sustainability.
Our people take great pride in doing things the right way, living our values and respecting our Code of Conduct and Im pleased to see that our efforts continue to be recognised externally.
In 2014, my first year as Chairman, we created further value for our shareholders and continued to build the quality and sustainability of We scored 94 per cent in the Business in the Community our business.
Our strategic focus on maximising sales, cost and Corporate Responsibility Index and 74 per cent in the RobecoSAM cash opportunities enabled us to achieve our targets and further assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
transition the business to strengthen our future growth prospects.
More information about our achievements can be found in the Transition initiatives included improving supply through a stock Corporate Responsibility section of this report and on our website optimisation programme.
This reduced trade inventories in www.
com some major markets, affecting our volume, revenue and pro t Governance and the Board performance.
The underlying results we have disclosed in this I was delighted to succeed Iain Napier as Chairman in February.
report remove the impact of the stock programme and give a Iain served on the Board for 13 years, seven as Chairman, and clearer picture of how well we performed.
I would like to thank him for the signi cant contribution he made Our results were delivered against a backdrop of challenging to the business.
conditions in some territories and Id like to thank our employees Im committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco continues to be around the world for the huge contribution they made throughout governed and managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
Our Governance Report highlights the progress weve made Enhancing Returns for Shareholders against our key focus areas and sets out the Boards priorities Total adjusted operating pro t was stable at 3 billion and for 2015. underlying tobacco net revenue increased by 2 per cent.
Adjusted There were a number of other Board changes in the year.
Oliver earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant currency Tant joined us from KPMG in October, prior to being appointed basis to 203.4 pence and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis.
Chief Financial Of cer in November, and Karen Witts, Group Reported earnings per share was 148.5 pence.
Finance Director of King sher plc, was appointed Independent The Board is committed to shareholder returns and delivering Non-Executive Director in February.
Both have a wealth of skills consistently strong dividend growth.
This year the Board is and expertise and are proving to be very strong additions to recommending a final dividend of 89.3 pence per share, which the business.
will be paid on 17 February 2015 to shareholders on the register In addition two long-standing Non-Executive Directors left the on 16 January 2015.
This brings the total dividend for 2014 to Board after completing nine years service: Berge Setrakian stood 128.1 pence, an increase of 10 per cent.
down in February and Susan Murray stood down in September.
With effect from our 2015 financial year, we will pay dividends I would like to thank them both for the considerable contributions on a quarterly basis in order to give shareholders more regular they have made over the years.
Creating Sustainable Value Investing in the USA We have made good progress this year and are well placed to build In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion 4.2 billion to acquire a on our performance in 2015. number of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets and The external environment will continue to pose challenges but we the most pro table tobacco market in the world, outside of China.
have consistently demonstrated our ability to grow our business These assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of in dif cult conditions.
We have the brands, the footprint and the Lorillard by Reynolds American and include a portfolio of USA people to succeed and Im con dent that we will add to our track cigarette brands and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA.
record of value creation in the coming year and beyond.
The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American without historic product liabilities.
An indemnity against such liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms of the transaction.
Mark Williamson Chairman 6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
