Chairmans Statement RECORD RESULTS IN 2014 We are pleased to report a strong performance in 2014 with robust like for like sales growth, a new record underlying operating margin and excellent cash generation.
The Groups constant currency revenue and profit momentum of the past five years accelerated in 2014, further demonstrating the attractiveness of Inchcapes strong position in a vibrant industry as well as the return to growth of some of our important markets.
Our strategic focus on premium and luxury brands, our strong presence across higher growth Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets, our rigorous operational processes and our dedication to our Customer 1st strategy successfully combined to deliver an excellent result in 2014.
At the end of September 2014, we Firstly, our markets that have seen EPS rose by 15.4% to 50.2p, driving announced that after nearly 10 years New Car volumes increase since the a five year compound annual growth as Group Chief Executive, Andr Lacroix global financial crisis are now benefiting rate of 13.1%.
will leave Inchcape at the end of March from broad based growth across our Cash generated from operations during 2015 to take up his new role as CEO categories, including Service and Parts.
the year was 405.8m which represents of Intertek Group plc.
Under Andrs The second factor being the return an 127% conversion of pre-exceptional leadership, Inchcape has performed to growth of the important markets operating profit.
extremely well and our market of Singapore and Greece.
For the second year in succession, we capitalisation has more than doubled Our Australasian performance has been announced a 100m share buy back since his appointment in 2005. particularly pleasing in 2014, especially programme at the time of our Interim We thank Andr and wish him all the against the backdrop of an adverse Results, of which 50m was completed very best for the future.
currency translation from the Australian by 31 December 2014.
The Groups Dollar to Sterling.
Trading profit for the At the end of January 2015, we cash generation continues to be strong, division rose 13.2% to 89.3m reflecting announced the appointment of Stefan benefiting from well-established disciplines a very good performance by our Subaru Bomhard as Inchcapes CEO effective over working capital.
The Group generated Distribution business, which benefited from 1 April 2015.
Stefan is an experienced 290.7m of free cash flow in the year and from an increase in market share and international executive who has worked had 210.2m of net cash at the year end.
a favourable exposure to buying in Yen.
for a number of well-known companies, I am pleased that our operational Our Retail operations also delivered and his most recent role was European success and the increased dividend a robust performance supported by President for Bacardi Limited.
He has lived per share have been reflected in further profit growth for the Trivett sites and worked in a number of our markets the 2014 total shareholder return we acquired in 2013. and he brings a wide range of expertise TSR of 21.4%.
I know he is looking forward Our Russian business is experiencing a to joining Inchcape and working with period of geopolitical uncertainty and, Capital Expenditure a great team.
whilst we delivered revenue growth Discipline on capital expenditure has of 6.6% at constant currency in 2014 been maintained in 2014, through the Performance and remain confident in the long-term control of Group wide hurdle requirements Group sales increased by 2.7% to potential, we have reduced our near-term and the realisation of 21.6m in cash from 6.7bn for the full year to 31 December growth expectations and have recorded a the disposal of a body shop and paint 2014.
Our 2014 constant currency like for 47.4m non-cash exceptional impairment facility at 24 Leng Kee Road in Singapore.
like revenue growth of 10.1% was excellent of the carrying value of goodwill in Russia.
In 2014 we completed further BMW and well ahead of the 3.5% increase in Profit before tax and exceptional items Motorrad facilities in Chile, following the global New Car volumes Source: LMC of 303.2m was a 10.4% increase on new flagship facility opening in 2013.
Adjusted earnings per share Poland we opened new MINI and BMW inflexion point for two important reasons.
18 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Motorrad showrooms, these additions coinciding with the 10th anniversary of INTRODUCING STEFAN BOMHARD our Polish operations this year.
In the UK The Board of Inchcape plc is pleased to announce the appointment we refurbished a number of sites and of Stefan Bomhard as the Groups new Chief Executive.
opened state of the art facilities for our brand partners.
global commercial organisation and Our global iPower programme to roll Global Travel Retail.
Bacardi Limited out SAP and CDK integrated IT solutions is one of the worlds largest spirits across all of our markets continued in companies and the European region 2014 and notable market completions has operations in 22 countries across were Hong Kong, Singapore and Peru.
Stefan has a PhD in Marketing and has accrued Board a wealth of experience in the retail and We were pleased to announce the consumer sectors during his career.
He appointment of Coline McConville We are delighted to welcome Stefan served as Chief Commercial Officer of who joined the Board on 1 June to Inchcape.
He is a very experienced Cadbury plc, Chief Operating Officer 2014.
Coline brings valuable breadth international executive with proven of Foodsolutions, Europe, a division of of global experience across multiple success in a number of well-known Unilever plc, together with general industries and is a member of the companies.
I feel confident that his management, retail and franchise Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility style and approach will fit extremely experience at Diageo Burger King and Nominations Committees.
Throughout his Dividend Stefan aged 47 is currently President career, Stefan has lived and worked in The Board is pleased to recommend of Bacardi Limiteds European region, a number of markets across Europe and payment of a final dividend for the which is the companys largest region.
In taking up his role at year ended 31 December 2014 of He is also responsible for Bacardis Inchcape, he will be relocating to the UK.
This gives a total dividend for 2014 of 20.1p, a 15.5% increase on 2013 17.4p.
Subject to making responsible economic, Inchcape has delivered double-digit to approval at the Companys Annual environmental and social behaviour compounded annual underlying earnings General Meeting AGM on 21 May 2015, fundamental to the way we work.
growth over the past five years, despite the final dividend will be paid on 25 June a backdrop of challenging trading 2015 to shareholders of the Company People conditions in some of our key countries.
on the register of members at the close On behalf of the Board, I wish to express Last year saw the return to growth in of business on 29 May 2015. my sincere thanks to all our colleagues Singapore and Greece, the broadening across the Group for their outstanding Approach to Governance and of growth across our categories and commitment and support in 2014.
Corporate Responsibility CR the presence of distinct and supportive We view governance as a continually Outlook local drivers.
Whilst a portfolio of markets evolving set of principles and the Annual The fundamentals of the Group are strong.
will tend to always see a spread of Report gives the Board an opportunity We trade across multiple value drivers performances, the long-term momentum to communicate to our stakeholders how distributing and retailing for leading within the Group is encouraging and we we have incorporated these principles premium and luxury automotive brand are resolute in our focus to capture this in order to underpin the delivery of partners across primarily small and opportunity and deliver on-going value the Groups strategy.
The Corporate medium size markets, where we typically creation for our shareholders.
Governance Report on pages 46 to have established high market shares.
57 aims to set out clearly how we have Inchcape is attractively positioned to structured the Board, how we have benefit from the exciting growth industry reviewed and evaluated ourselves and in which we operate.
our processes, and what changes we The solid foundations of the Group have have made to ensure the Board and its been strengthened to drive long-term committees remain effective.
In 2014 shareholder value by our dedication to the CR Board Committee, responsible Ken Hanna our Customer 1st strategy, underpinned by for the strategic direction of the Groups Chairman Corporate Responsibility programme, clear operational initiatives and secured continued to develop a global approach by a focus on capital discipline.
