01 4 Section one Strategic report: overview Annual report and accounts 2014 5 01 Chairmans introduction As well as preparing for, and I am delighted to introduce the first annual results delivering, a successful IPO, the So that is the Infinis Infinis team also refinanced ten story: a foundation of Infinis Energy plc as a listed company and separate wind farm bank facilities into one portfolio facility.
This has of operational to welcome so many new shareholders.
I was significantly reduced complexity, excellence: a focus increased flexibility and, most importantly, reduced interest costs.
approached to act as Chairman of Infinis in the on clean, affordable This transaction won the prestigious electricity European Onshore Wind Deal of the early summer of 2013 and was truly impressed Year from Project Finance magazine.
production: and a with what I found.
commitment A key part of operational excellence is delivering on your promises and to a progressive that has been the focus of Infinis dividend policy.
I think it is worth setting out what we have achieved.
We have: reported an 18.3% increase in 1 EBITDA to 148.4 million, ahead of our expectations at The consistent and meaningful backdrop.
The political landscape the time of the flotation: This last point is particularly development of the business over the around UK energy policy continues to significant.
Utilities are classic income last ten years is impressive.
Infinis has be challenging but I believe that by maximised output from our three growth stocks and Infinis is no grown from being an unloved division focusing on affordable, reliable and different technologies with total exception.
We are committed to of a waste company to the largest clean electricity production, Infinis is exported electricity up 5.7% to paying a full year dividend of 55 independent generator of renewable well positioned for the coming years.
2.6 TWh: million 18.33 pence per share for electricity in the United Kingdom, the coming year and our dividend operating a broad portfolio of One of the key tasks that needed to continued to reduce leverage with policy to increase at least in line with 1 landfill gas, onshore wind and be done before flotation was the key net debt to EBITDA ratio inflation is unchanged.
At flotation the Ian Marchant declining to 3.7 times: Board comprised two Executive Independent Non-executive So that is the Infinis story: a Whilst that history is a good Directors, two representatives of Chairman progressed our wind development foundation of operational foundation, what struck me more was Terra Firma, and four independent portfolio enabling an investment excellence: a focus on clean, the clear and ongoing commitment Non-executive Directors.
We also decision to be made on the first affordable electricity production: from everyone at Infinis to committed to bring on a fifth project in 2014: and a commitment to a progressive operational excellence.
Everyone Non-executive Director by the end of dividend policy.
m works as part of the team and is the financial year, which we have now achieved full compliance with always looking for the extra value in done with the appointment of governance rules with the Ian Marchant 148.4 any situation.
This is reflected in the Baroness Sally Morgan.
This Board of appointment of the final Chairman Infinis culture of going the extra mile.
nine has a combination of a long and independent Non-executive Infinis Energy plc deep understanding of the Infinis Director: and Reported an 18.3% This was best illustrated by the team business along with sufficient 1 increase in EBITDA delivering a record set of results independence from a group of proposed our first ever dividend as during a year in which the Company individuals with experience in utilities, a publicly listed company of 6.63 to 148.4 million, floated on the London Stock engineering, finance and policy.
ahead of our Exchange, a major event in any good mix and will, I believe, serve companys life.
The flotation was shareholders interests well.
I am expectations at the achieved despite regulatory grateful to my colleagues for their time of the flotation pressures and a difficult political support over the last few months.
1 E BITDA before operating exceptional items: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairment, and before operating exceptional items.
Operating exceptional items relating to the IPO and refinancing were 39.4 million 2013: 2.2 million
