STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT hen I introduced our last Annual Report, growth plan put in place by Stephen and his strengthened Imarked my fifth year as your Nonmanagement team.
Executive Chairman by highlighting the Your new management team has successfully launched and W significant leadership change at Informa.
begun to implement a new growth strategy, whilst maintaining Twelve months on, the wind of change adisciplined operational focus in our balanced portfolio of hasbeen felt in almost every corner of businesses.
This has resulted in strong performances in two theCompany.
ofour four Operating Divisions, and renewed focus on growth This change has been led by Stephen A. Carter, who became and reorganisation at the two remaining business areas.
your Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2014.
When Global Exhibitions was the highlight, as organic revenue Stephen was appointed, his mandate from the Board was andprofits rose strongly in a healthy Exhibitions market.
tomanage the transition effectively and seek to position the Thisperformance was enhanced by a number of targeted Group to ensure we are extracting full value from the attractive acquisitions, including the Divisions first major foray into the markets in which we operate.
This helps to lift the annualised revenue I am pleased to report solid progress following an initial of Global Exhibitions to around 250m annually, reinforcing periodof Measured Change, which led in mid-2014 to the itsposition as one of the leading Exhibition groups globally.
announcement of the Growth Acceleration Plan.
This plan, The Academic Publishing Division also performed well, which encapsulates the Group strategy through to 2017, delivering consistent organic growth in a benign budgetary isexplained in detail within this Strategic Report, including environment.
Its success is a testament to the strength of our reviews of each of our Operating Divisions.
academic Brands and our differentiated approach to authors and customers.
Towards the end of the year, we transferred BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS ourMedical Journals business from Business Intelligence In the last financial year, basic earnings per share rose to 40.3p, toAcademic Publishing.
This will add valuable scale to our and the Board recommended a final dividend of 12.9p, lifting journal portfolio and generate cost savings, and should enable the total dividend per share by 2% to 19.3p 2013: 18.9p.
This ustotarget the institutional market with its products much dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the strategy and moreeffectively.
com 4 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The Business Intelligence and Knowledge & Networking Our Group has a wide array of talented individuals, and we will Divisions had a more difficult year.
Some key end markets invest continually in developing and strengthening this most andgeographies remain challenging but we also recognised valuable of resources.
In 2014, Tom Moloney was appointed to aneed to make changes to the operating structure and focus the new post of Director of Talent & Transformation.
This is already under way, following the former Chief Executive of media group EMAP, has significant appointment of new Divisional Management Teams in 2014, experience in change management.
His appointment reflects andI have confidence that we will see steady operational the importance we place on this aspect of the business.
progress by both businesses through 2015.
At Informa, we believe our culture Your Board also supports the greater focus within our fifth isunique, reflecting the value we place on our staff and the Division, Global Support.
This Division plays an increasingly freedom we provide them to innovate, develop and succeed.
important role in generating value across the Group.
Management This extends to our belief in a balanced and inclusive working worked hard to improve our Shared Services function in 2014, environment, where everyone has an equal opportunity to consolidating the number of geographic hubs operated by participate and flourish.
For example, the latest Group statistics theCompany and delivering back-office efficiencies.
show that more than half of our employees are female 57% in 2014 and 2013.
STRATEGY 20142017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN In terms of remuneration, the role of your Board Remuneration The Board welcomes the commitment to accelerate growth Committee is to ensure the right balance between short and across the Group.
The good long-term growth prospects of long-term rewards.
These rewards are linked to value creation Informas markets within the wider Knowledge and Information and delivery against our business strategy.
Detailed information Economy give us confidence we can deliver on this ambition.
on our remuneration approach can be found on pages 90 to 107.
Our growth priorities were identified as part of an in-depth At Informa, our culture also reflects a strong sense of review led by Stephen and his senior team shortly after he responsibility towards community and the environment, became Group Chief Executive in January 2014.
This reviews something encapsulated in our Group Sustainability Strategy.
conclusions provided the blueprint for the 20142017 Growth This is an area we constantly re-evaluate to see how we can Acceleration Plan, a new Group strategy announced inJuly.
Later in 2015 we are planning to re-launch this programme, in a bid to focus our efforts and more closely align I am pleased that the plan will build on our existing strengths our activities with the core skills and capabilities of the Group.
and align the Group more closely to customers.
As you will readelsewhere in this report, the Growth Acceleration Plan OUTLOOK isacomprehensive programme, addressing the operating Informa can look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
structure, management, portfolio discipline, acquisition strategy Our robust and disciplined performance in 2014, combined and funding of the Group.
It includes significant investment with a strengthened management team and simplified intoa range of growth initiatives identified across the Group.
operating model, gives us belief that we can continue to deliver on market expectations whilst investing in the various growth GOVERNANCE initiatives identified across the Group, as part of the broader Informa is committed to the highest standards of governance.
The Corporate Governance Statement pages 78 to 83 outlines thesestandards.
This belief is reflected in the commitment of the Board to raise the annual dividend by a minimum of 2% through the period At Board level, we added further breadth and depth of ofthe Growth Acceleration Plan.
This pledge gives strong experience in 2014 with the appointment of several new visibility to shareholders as we invest in the future growth of Non-Executive Directors.
This included Gareth Bullock, former thebusiness.
This investment in strengthening the business, Group Executive Director at Standard Chartered, who was the reorganisation launched in 2014 and the accelerated alsoappointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
momentum of change will, I am confident, create further TALENT AND CULTURE valuefor all our stakeholders in 2015.
As we invest in various initiatives as part of the Growth DEREK MAPP Acceleration Plan and as the shape of the Group evolves, CHAIRMAN oneconstant is the value of our people.
It might be a clich, butwe are a people business.
All our achievements are dependent on the hard work and commitment of our teams around the globe.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 5
