IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Chairmans statement We have continued to execute our strategy to deliver high-quality growth.
Our strong performance was underpinned by our successful Winning Model, which is our framework for delivering value for our shareholders and owners through our portfolio of preferred brands, talented people and leading revenue delivery systems.
Our highlights in 2014 included the opening One of IHGs greatest strengths is our of the first two hotels under the EVEN ability to adapt and evolve in a changing Hotels brand, and the progress made in global landscape.
We are a dynamic both strengthening our digital offer and business.
In 2014, we saw some of the enhancing our loyalty programme, IHG worlds biggest economies return to Rewards Club, with the aim of building growth and others faced uncertainty lifetime loyalty with our guests and in the shape of natural, economic and enhancing their experience with our political upheaval.
In this context, our brands before, during, and after, their expertise and discipline was critical to stay.
We also continued our strong track us delivering consistently good results.
record of delivering attractive returns Shareholder returns for shareholders, with over $1 billion We remain committed to delivering including ordinary dividends returned long-term shareholder value, returning in the year.
surplus funds to our shareholders and We ended the year on a high, with the thereby maintaining an efficient balance We made excellent announcement that we had agreed to sheet with an investment grade credit progress against our acquire Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants, rating.
In the 11years since IHG became making IHG the clear market leader in a standalone business, we have well-established strategy the boutique segment.
consistently delivered superior and to deliver high-quality sustainable returns for our shareholders.
I have seen, first hand, this momentum In May 2014, we announced a $750 million growth and returned over in the business.
I have visited many hotels special dividend with share consolidation in our established markets, as well as our $1 billion to shareholders.
During the growth markets, and I continue to be year, we also successfully completed our enormously impressed.
Our continued $500 million share buyback programme.
Patrick Cescau success is testament to our strong In total, we have now returned $10.4 billion Chairman relationship with our owners and the including ordinary dividends to passion and commitment our 350,000 shareholders since our 2003 demerger.
colleagues globally bring to the business on a daily basis.
I am pleased to announce that the Board is recommending a final dividend Views on the year as a whole of 52 cents 33.8 pence per ordinary share, With hotels in nearly 100 countries around an increase of 11 per cent on the final the world, our scale position has been dividend for 2013, resulting in a full-year a key driver of our consistently strong dividend of 77 cents 48.6 pence per share, performance.
It allowed us to allocate up 10 per cent on 2013. resources in a focused way to grow in our attractive markets described on page Total Shareholder Return was 32 per cent th 18, whilst ensuring we maintain a strong in the year: the 10 best performance presence in growth markets of the future.
6 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION InterContinental Paris Le Grand, France Crowne Plaza Costa Mesa Orange County, California, US The Board and its areas of focus During the year, the Board remained Outlook IHG is an ambitious company with an focused on IHGs strategy and the We continue to remain confident in the impressive scale position and a proven execution of our Winning Model, as well long-term growth prospects of the hotel strategy for high-quality growth.
Ensuring as on maintaining our deep understanding industry.
There are some major structural we have the right balance of skills, style of both the risks facing the business and tailwinds and socio economic trends and expertise at both the Board level the controls we have in place.
These are which mean that the hotel industry will and across the business is an important further described on pages 14 to 33. experience significant growth into the factor in supporting our future growth future.
Our proven strategy for high-quality Governance see pages 57 to 62. growth means that we are well placed to High standards of corporate governance continue to outperform.
In last years Annual Report, I said how are fundamental to the way IHG operates impressed I was by the strength and and reflect our values and commitment to diversity of the IHG Board.
This continues being a truly responsible business.
I also stressed the years Annual Report, we explained how importance of evolving the composition we had commissioned a formal evaluation of the Board to best support the business of the Board from an external independent as it grows and develops.
This year we undertook an internal Board effectiveness evaluation and Patrick Cescau In 2014, a key priority for me was to internal performance evaluations of each Chairman appoint a Non-Executive Director with Director.
The Board also considered the a strong background in consumer-facing performance of each of its Committees.
On 1 September 2014, we were It was confirmed that the Board and its therefore delighted to welcome Jo Harlow Committees were operating effectively, to the Board and as a member of the and that each Director continues to bring Audit, Nomination and Remuneration relevant knowledge, diversity of Committees.
Jo has a wealth of experience perspective, an ability and willingness to and knowledge, particularly on the role challenge and retains a strong commitment digital technology plays in driving to the role.
The progress against our consumer behaviour.
2013 evaluation, and details of our 2014 On 31 December 2014, Jonathan Linen evaluation and action plan, can be found retired from the Board and I would on pages 63 and 64. like to thank him for his tremendous Detailed information on our Board contribution to IHG.
In December 2014, and governance processes, including we announced that Kirk Kinsell would the Directors Remuneration Report, step down from the Board and his role can be found on pages 54 to 91. as President of our Americas business on 13 February 2015.
Kirk was succeeded In line with our commitment to responsible by Elie Maalouf as Chief Executive Officer, business practices see pages 24 and 25, The Americas, who became a member this year, we have decided to produce a of IHGs Executive Committee.
We are also broader Responsible Business Report in pleased that, effective from 1 March 2015, place of the Corporate Responsibility Anne Busquet will be joining the Board Report, which can be downloaded at as a Non-Executive Director and she will www.
also sit on the Audit, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
Anne has an impressive breadth of experience in digital commerce, hospitality, finance and marketing.
