02 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR STRATEGY IS PROVING EFFECTIVE AND I AM VERY CONSCIOUS THAT THE ONGOING PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IS ACHIEVED THROUGH THE INGENUITY AND HARD WORK OF OUR PEOPLE IN SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS.
LORD BLACKWELL Chairman Interserve made further significant services to the citizen, initially through including in the KSA where our new joint progress during 2014, growing revenues the Work Programme and subsequently venture with local partner, Rezayat, gives by 33 per cent and adding over 23,000 through our domiciliary care business.
us access to a significant FM market.
new colleagues during the year.
It Recently we have extended our reach In addition, the acquisition of esg adds is a central tenet of our corporate considerably: in December, we were the establishment and management of strategy to build strong core businesses.
selected to provide probation services three education colleges in the KSA to The acquisition of Initial Facilities in as part of the Ministry of Justices Interserves portfolio.
We believe that March added breadth and depth to our Transforming Rehabilitation programme.
both the FM and education markets have customer offering, positioning us as a Also in December, we acquired The significant potential for us: not just in the top-three player in the UK Facilities Employment and Skills Group esg, KSA, but in the Middle Eastern region as a Management FM market.
In addition, further extending our Work Programme whole.
Our oil and gas services businesses our performance was underpinned by presence and adding capability to in the Middle East have also performed strong organic growth a 10 per cent provide skills, training and employability well and we took further steps to position increase in consolidated revenues, services in the UK and further education ourselves to grow our FM activities across demonstrating our potential in in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA.
recovering markets and our resilience The broad range of capabilities we now In Europe we are growing our capability to where market conditions have been possess, together with our track record serve major clients who look for a single more difficult.
as a trusted partner to UK Government, organisation to meet their support service provides a significant opportunity to Our strategy also envisages extending needs across the continent.
Some 3,000 deliver better, and better coordinated out from our core businesses to colleagues joined us in Spain through services to the citizen, whilst improving enter and grow in adjacent markets the Initial Facilities acquisition whilst the outcomes sought by our clients.
where our skills can be applied to organically we expanded our work for gain competitive advantage.
Since During the period we expanded our the Foreign & Commonwealth Office and 2011, Interserve has been building support services business into a number won our first cross-border commercial its capabilities to deliver front-line of territories where we had existing contract, with Sony Europe, wherein we construction and RMD Kwikform activities, will provide services in 27 countries.
In our construction business we delivered good revenue growth in the UK.
Whilst margins have been affected OPERATING IN OVER by supply pressures, they remain within our expected range.
This is a tribute to strong customer relationships and prudent management of the business through the economic cycle.
In the Middle East the business has delivered a solid performance in challenging, 40 albeit improving, construction markets.
COUNTRIES OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 03 Equipment Services performed strongly how best to boost the skills and wage than the 2016 AGM.
Accordingly, the prospects for the low paid in the UK.
in 2014, benefitting from our investment Board, under Russell Kings leadership, over recent years in expanding the fleet We sponsored a social value summit will undertake an external search for recently repeated at which a number of in improving overall market conditions.
my successor and will make further The margins in that business have now key political leaders and policy thinkers announcements in due course.
However, whilst publications recovered after the worldwide recession, enabling us to achieve an attractive and events are useful focal points, it is PROSPECTS our everyday actions as a responsible return on investment.
We opened new 2014 has been another year of strong facilities on the US west coast, in Panama employer that really matter and which progress and growth for the business and are reflected in our integrated reporting and in Cape Town, South Africa.
looking to the future we are encouraged by of our performance in social, natural and its growth potential.
In the majority of our Health and Safety remains a critical knowledge as well as financial capitals.
markets we are seeing signs of recovery, priority for the business, especially as our with the business well positioned to continued growth results in many more BOARD CHANGES achieve further growth so long as the more colleagues to induct into the Interserve During the year, we were delighted to extreme global political and economic risks values and culture.
Despite our continuing welcome Nick Salmon and Russell King do not crystallise.
While optimistic, we focus on safety, we did not achieve an to the Board as non-executive directors, continue to manage the business prudently in-year improvement in our overall rate and members of the Audit, Nomination to ensure it remains resilient against future of reportable incidents, which included and Remuneration Committees.
one fatal incident early in the year.
Our both bring a wealth of commercial thoughts remain with those affected by and board governance experience.
We remain absolutely Keith Ludeman assumed chairmanship of We continue to believe our strategy is committed to our medium-term target to the Remuneration Committee on 9 July able to deliver attractive, sustainable halve our accident incident rate over the and David Thorpe retired from the Board returns for shareholders and support a period from 2010 to 2019. in August.
David left with our gratitude progressive dividend policy.
Given our for the major contribution he made to confidence in the medium-term outlook Our strategy is proving effective and the Company over five and a half years.
for the business we are recommending an I am very conscious that the ongoing increased final dividend of 15.5p 2013: performance of the business is achieved Looking ahead, after serving over 14.7p, bringing the total dividend for the through the ingenuity and hard work of nine years on the Board, our Senior year to 23.0p 2013: 21.5p, an increase our people in serving our customers.
I Independent Director SID, Les Cullen, of 7.0 per cent.
The final dividend will be thank them all on behalf of the Board.
will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual paid on 20 May 2015 to shareholders on We have always sought to recognise those General Meeting.
Les will be sorely the register at the close of business on individuals who epitomise our values.
In missed, but I am delighted that Russell 7 April 2015.
2014 we developed this further, holding our King has agreed to assume the role of SID first Group-wide award scheme, celebrating at that time.
Lord Blackwell our colleagues who bring our values to life, Chairman who exhibit leadership in Health and Safety Finally, having been Chairman since 26 February 2015 and who, both individually and in teams, January 2006 I have informed the Board are role models to inspire us all.
of my intention to stand down no later We continue to embrace keenly our obligation to act as a responsible business, recognising that delivering real social value and sustainable shareholder value go hand in hand.
During the year we made further progress in our SustainAbilities strategy and are becoming increasingly confident in the differentiation this provides for us with clients, suppliers and our own people.
We are also increasingly aware of our responsibilities as a major employer, to help inform, guide and influence 23 000 relevant areas of public policy.
In April we published a report, in association NEW COLLEAGUES JOINED US IN 2014, with the Social Market Foundation, on TAKING OUR TOTAL WORKFORCE TO CIRCA 80,000
