Chairmans statement In the closing months of 2014 we saw a fundamental change in our business with the completion of the transformational 2014 was a year of quantum change Foster Wheeler deal.
It brings greater strength and depth for our business.
across many markets and provides your Company with access throughout the oil & gas value chain.
The dramatic drop in global oil prices will prove an unfortunately-timed testing ground for our new business proposition over the coming years however, I and your board retain complete confidence in your Companys potential.
We begin 2015 with a new name, reflecting the power of both brands: a new identity, which encapsulates the depth and breadth of our potential: and a new culture, which meshes the best of both breeds and will provide the bedrock of our future operational success.
These are covered in more detail in the Chief Executives statement.
Your board The board of directors is responsible for governing the organisation by establishing broad policies and objectives, monitoring the performance of the management team, ensuring the availability of adequate financial resources, and being held accountable to you, the shareholders, for the Companys performance and longer term potential.
We support the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and believe we have complied with the provisions of the September 2012 edition throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
We continue to focus on diversity within our business.
Not just the diversity of human characteristics and skills, John Connolly but also diversity of thought as we believe that part of our Chairman role is to constantly challenge the business to ensure we are at the top of our game.
We must, of course, continue to deliver the highest possible standards in safety, collaboration and value creation.
We must also ensure that we nurture an environment where new thinking and creative solutions can thrive for our customers.
The complementary merging of our operations with those of Foster Wheeler not only enhances this potential, but it also provides greater resilience to market cyclicality.
In November, upon the closing of the Foster Wheeler offer, we appointed Stephanie Newby to the board and to the companys audit and health, safety, security, environmental and ethics committees.
Stephanie was an independent non-executive director of Foster Wheeler and she brings a wealth of boardroom expertise and experience of being a director of a company listed on a US stock exchange as your Company now has a listing of its American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Amec Foster Wheeler 06 Annual report and accounts 2014 Since the year-end we have announced other board changes.
Dividend per share for the year In February Kent Masters joined the board.
Kent was the CEO and a board director of Foster Wheeler.
In February we also announced that Simon Thompson will step down from the 43.3p board at the upcoming annual general meeting after serving six years as a director of the Company.
Simon also holds the 1 important roles of Senior Independent Director and chairman Adjusted diluted EPS for 2014 of the remuneration committee.
I am very grateful for Simons contribution to the board during a period of significant change in your company.
Neil Carson will assume the roles of senior 79.5p independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 14 May 2015.
The board has commenced a process to recruit one or two new non-executive directors.
Announcements on the new directors will be made in the next few months.
Our priorities Each of your directors has been actively engaged in our board meetings and has contributed to debates on future strategy and direction.
In 2015 the board will continue with a programme of regular engagements with management teams across the group.
Our priorities going forward include monitoring the execution of the integration plans and the implementation of the new operating model referred to in the Chief Executives statement.
Recognising the enlargement and changes in the group, combined with the challenging markets in our sector, a significant priority for the board is working with the Group Leadership Team to set the strategy and medium-term business plan for the Group.
Your Companys performance Across our four markets we have seen a full range of conditions in 2014, ranging from tough and challenging, to robust, stable 1 and growing.
In these markets our trading profit was 321m.
A further indication of our belief in the model and your companys potential is the proposed final dividend of 28.5p, making a total of 43.3p per share for the year a 3% increase 1 on 2013 and dividend cover of 1.8 times.
If approved at the Companys annual general meeting on 14 May 2015, it will be paid on 2 July 2015 to those shareholders on the register at 29 May 2015.
It remains the boards intention to continue Amec Foster Wheeler with a progressive dividend policy.
has in place a strong, Conclusion I and my fellow directors remain strongly convinced of the highly competent board potential for your company.
We believe that Amec Foster that performs well.
Wheeler has the right strategy, a strong customer base, an improved customer proposition and the right skills for it to achieve its true potential.
On your behalf I would like to thank Samir Brikho and his management team and all of the 40,000 people in Amec Foster Wheeler for their valued contribution to date and their future potential.
John Connolly Chairman 26 March 2015 1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 169 to 172 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 07 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
