ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Overview Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder Soon after I arrived at ITV, just over five years ago, we set out our transformation programme for ITV.
The business had suffered a traumatic year in 2009, was burdened with expensive debt and very exposed to the advertising cycle.
Our programme was designed to create a better balanced business, capable of international expansion in the context of an increasingly digital and interconnected media world.
Under the strong leadership of Adam Crozier and his team this programme has been successfully implemented.
As a result, today we have an unrecognisably more profitable business.
45% of total revenue comes from sources other than free-to-air broadcast advertising, our balance sheet has been restored and the business is strongly cash generative.
Our content business is growing steadily and Archie Norman now has a truly international footprint.
Our Online, Pay & Chairman Interactive businesses are growing and profitable and, in our UK Broadcast business, relationships with our advertising customers have been transformed and we launched new channels for the first time in many years.
Behind these top line results have Behind these top line results have been far reaching been far reaching improvements in improvements in operations and management style.
Most operations and management style.
importantly, ITVs creative capability and ability to attract talent is stronger than ever.
Most importantly, ITVs creative The success of the transformation programme provides a capability and ability to attract solid platform for ITV to deliver the next phase of growth.
talent is stronger than ever.
As much as the business has changed, so the market for television and content is also changing and will continue to pose challenges for the traditional television model.
It is important we have a clear eyed view of how the changing landscape will affect our business.
Already we are seeing shifts in viewing habits as more people watch content on multiple devices and catch up and, as connected television becomes more commonplace, new global viewing platforms are emerging.
With our very strong content portfolio and the power of the integrated producer broadcaster model, these developments provide opportunities for ITV but, undeniably, they also present a continued imperative for change.
For all these reasons we have set out in this report very clear strategic priorities for the next phase of development.
This will include sustaining investment in our UK Broadcast flagship, continuing to develop the new Online and Pay businesses, and growing international content and distribution.
Most importantly, ITV is becoming an increasingly international business, drawing on top creatives and producers from across Europe and the USA.
Underpinning this next phase is the strength of our management team which we continue to build across all geographies.
com Stock code: ITV Overview Investor Proposition 2014 Highlights ITV at a Glance Strategy Business Model Market Review Chairmans Statement Selective acquisitions have and will continue to be an At Board level our philosophy is to maintain a small Nonimportant part of this strategy.
Our objective is to build executive team, closely engaged with the business and a global network of outstanding content businesses and supportive of the management team, whilst embracing the talent and we have already built a large scale presence in principles of transparency and open debate.
Last year Dame unscripted production in the US.
However, all acquisitions Lucy Neville-Rolfe joined Her Majestys Government and bring with them management challenges and financial risk we congratulate her on her important new role: she leaves and therefore we have put in place clear financial criteria with our thanks for her valuable contribution.
Mary Harris and a rigorous programme of due diligence overseen by the has joined the board and brings new qualities from her Audit Committee and ultimately the Board.
consulting background and extensive board experience.
With the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows we Finally, probably more than any other business of our scale in are now able to reward shareholders with a progressive the UK, we are a people and talent business.
The people we increase in the dividend, and a special dividend to return employ and the talent who work with us define our product.
capital not required for investment in the growth of the It is their efforts that have made us successful and I want to business.
Our approach is to maintain an efficient balance say a big thank you to them on behalf of the Board.
sheet that allows us flexibility for further investment.
Therefore, while we will look to increase our leverage over Archie Norman time we remain conservative, mindful of the technology Chairman risks faced by the industry and the volatility of the advertising market.
Pictured: Broadchurch returned for a second series at the beginning of 2015.
The series averaged 9.2 million viewers and a 30% share.
