Strategic Report Chairmans letter David Tyler, Chairman Underlying profit before tax was up 5.3 per Dear Shareholder cent to 798 million.
Underlying basic earnings per share rose 6.5 per cent to 32.8 Your Board is pleased to report on pence.
Return on capital employed ROCE anotheryear of improving profits, our increased by 19 basis points year-on-year to 2 11.3 per cent.
ninth successive year of underlying profit This year, your Board recommends a final growth.
Byoffering our customers an dividend of 12.3 pence per share, bringing attractive combination of quality, value the full year dividend to 17.3 pence, an increase of 3.6 per cent over the previous and service, underpinned byour strong year, and covered 1.90 times by underlying values, we have continued to outperform earnings.
1 our BigFour peers in a challenging The food retail sector remains under pressure, with the growth of the discounters market.
As a result, our market share and increasingly competitive pricing posing remains atits highest level for a decade.
We continue to meet these challenges by investing in price, quality and service, and this, underpinned by our values, will ensure that Sainsburys continuesto provide a strong, differentiated offer to customers.
A winning team Our continuing success is due to the 161,000 colleagues who work in our stores, depots and store support centres.
Their hard work and commitment is a key factor in the success of our business and it is thanks to them that we were named Supermarket of 3 the Year for the sixth time in eight years, Convenience Retailer of the Year for the 3 fourth year running and Online Retailer of 4 the Year for the second consecutive year.
We want Sainsburys to be a place where people love to work and shop and we invest in developing our colleagues and in ensuring they share in the success of our Company.
Iam delighted that a bonus of over 80 million will be shared by colleagues this year.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 2 798m 80m 17.3p underlying profit bonus awarded to proposed full year before tax, up 5.3% colleagues dividend, up 3.6% We announced in January that Justin King Grocery who has been appointed Food Outlook will step down in July after ten years as Chief Commercial Director: and Jon Rudoe our Despite some signs of economic recovery, Executive.
His Making Sainsburys Great former Director of Online who has become the food retail sector is likely to remain Again plan transformed our business and Digital and Technology Director.
These challenging for the foreseeable future.
has seen Sainsburys consistently changes follow the previously announced Customers continue to manage their outperform the growth of the market.
Under departures of Rob Fraser our former IT household budgets cautiously and the his leadership, customer transactions have Director, Luke Jensen our Business discounters continue to grow market share.
increased by ten million a week to around 24 Development Director and Neil Sachdev our However, we have consistently performed million, annual sales have grown by 10.3 Property Director who all stepped down well against this backdrop, and continue to billion to 26.4 billion and underlying profit earlier in the year.
The Board thanks Rob, see opportunities for growth across multiple before tax has trebled to 798 million.
He has Luke and Neil for the significant channels.
Our differentiated customer offer been a truly exceptional leader and, on contributions they made to Sainsburys and means we are well positioned to achieve our behalf of your Board and all our colleagues, we wish them the very best for the future.
vision to be the most trusted retailer, where I thank him for his outstanding achievements.
people love to work and shop.
Sainsburys Bank I am delighted that Mike Coupe will lead In January, we acquired the remaining 50 Sainsburys on the next phase of its journey.
per cent shareholding in Sainsburys Bank plc Mike is a man of significant experience and a from Lloyds Banking Group.
The opportunity proven track record of success, well respected to offer accessible, tailored products that by colleagues and within the wider industry.
reward customers who both bank and shop No one knows Sainsburys or retail better with Sainsburys will help boost customer than he does and he is the natural choice to David Tyler numbers and loyalty across all our channels take our Company forward.
A key part of our success is the strength of our leadership team, and our focus on developing talent from within, ensuring we have a great blend of innovative thinking and experience.
We have made some important changes to our Operating Board in the last few months.
Roger Burnley moved from being Managing Director of General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics to become Retail and Operations Director, while Helen Buck transferred from her role as Retail Director to become Business Development Director.
We are also very pleased to have 1 Big Four peers refers to Tesco, Morrisons and Asda promoted three new people to the Operating 2 Return on capital employed: Underlying profit before interest and tax, divided by the average of opening and closing capital Board: Peter Griffiths the CEO of Sainsburys employed net assets before net debt.
2013 14 closing capital Bank: Paul Mills-Hicks our former Director for employed has been reduced by 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank closing net assets 243 million to reflect the fact that the Bankwas only consolidated in the accounts for four weeks ofthe 2013 14 financial year 3 Retail Industry Awards 4 Grocer Gold Awards J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 3
