16 17 Executive Chairmans Statement Our Fashion businesses, and notably Bank, have had a more Introduction difficult year.
The wider Youth Fashion sector continues to I am delighted to report that our core Sports fascias JD and Size?
undergo significant structural change with a significant market delivered another year of substantial progress.
It is particularly shift in favour of own brand and online Fast Fashion retailers pleasing that they have produced a record result in our core who have tapped into a price competitive environment and a markets in the UK and Ireland.
These businesses continue to disposable fashion culture.
However, Bank still had over 30 provide the foundation for profit and expansion in the Group.
million visitors to its stores and over 11 million unique visitors to We have also seen very positive developments for our Sport fascias its website in the year and we strongly believe that, with the in Europe, with an improved result in both France and Spain right proposition, Bank is capable of once again generating where Sprinter has again performed very robustly, and the positive returns.
We appointed a new Managing Director to the opening of stores in the Netherlands and Germany which are new business during the year with her initial focus being to strengthen territories for the Group.
The JD fascia is continuing to develop the proposition by offering faster own brand fashion, better ranging into a world class retail fascia with sports fashion market-leading and new brands.
standards in product merchandising and retail theatre.
We are Elsewhere in the Group, we continue to make substantial increasingly confident about its international potential and we investments in improving our operational infrastructure.
believe our key strategic suppliers recognise this too.
Work continues on the project to change our legacy IT systems We made substantial operational changes during the year in to Oracle with the first businesses going live on the new system our Blacks and Millets Outdoor business with the staged closure in 2015.
We have also recently started a project to increase of the legacy offices and warehouse in Northampton and the the capacity and flexibility at our Kingsway central warehouse relocation to the Groups main facilities.
Whilst there was following the absorption of Blacks and Millets and the inevitably disruption from this process, the resulting integration ecommerce fulfillment function during 2013. into Group functions, easier access to senior management and the removal of the unsustainable property costs connected Dividends and Earnings per Share with the Northampton site have given the Blacks and Millets The Board proposes paying a final dividend of 22.65p business a significantly better platform on which to develop.
2013: 22.00p bringing the total dividend payable for the year Inevitably, improvements in financial performance lag to 27.10p 2013: 26.30p per ordinary share.
The proposed operational changes but I am encouraged that the Blacks and final dividend will be paid on 4 August 2014 to all shareholders Millets business achieved a significant improvement in the on the register at 9 May 2014.
The total dividends payable for second half of the year and we expect continued progress in the year have therefore increased by a further 3% with a cumulative the new financial year.
The property portfolio for Outdoor growth since 2009 in excess of 125%.
Future dividend growth will continues to be developed.
The recent acquisition of Tiso in be limited with cash retained as we look to drive the continuing Scotland which also includes George Fisher in Keswick has overseas growth of the Sports fascias.
improved geographical coverage and increased our market The adjusted earnings per ordinary share before exceptional share and brand access although it will not, as a business unit, items were 117.12p 2013: 88.51p.
We believe over time these actions will again bring greater support to the Group from key suppliers.
The basic earnings per ordinary share were 82.52p 2013: 79.71p.
Overview 16 17 Board Effectiveness Current Trading and Outlook As Executive Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of Given the significant change in the timing of Easter relative to the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
last year, we believe that our Interim Management Statement, The Board is then responsible for the Groups strategic scheduled for release on 17 June 2014, is a more appropriate development, review of performance against the business and meaningful time at which to give our first update on trading objectives, overseeing risk and maintaining effective corporate for this year.
We are, however, encouraged by the underlying governance including health and safety, environmental, social trends to date across the principal parts of the business.
Ultimately, the Group continues to be well positioned with its retail proposition, increased financial resources and extensive People management experience to take advantage of opportunities The exceptional performance in Sport is a testament to the both in the UK and internationally.
skills, energy, experience and professionalism of everyone involved in these businesses.
JD, in particular, is a world class retail fascia and continues to set higher standards that we challenge our other businesses to match.
Colin Archer retired as a non-executive director during the year after 12 years of loyal service to the Group.
The Board would Peter Cowgill like to thank him for his great contribution to the Board in this Executive Chairman period.
His role as senior non-executive director and Chairman 15 April 2014 of the Audit Committee has been taken over by Martin Davies.
