CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WE ARE PROUD TO WELCOME OUR NEW SHAREHOLDERS WITH A YEAR OF PROFITABLE GROWTH PETER HARF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 18 2014 has been a major year in the development of JimmyChoo.
We In order to position JimmyChoo for the next stage of development, have continued to grow the business, with revenue increasing 12.2% significant investment has been undertaken to restructure and at constant currency through the creation of new exciting collections, strengthen the business, including talent management and in opening new stores and driving like for like sales growth through our systems and logistics.
JimmyChoo has been able to finance this robust business.
In addition to growing the business, we launched investment through inherently strong cash flow and improvements JimmyChoo PLC on the London Stock Exchange in October 2014. inunderlying margin.
Whilst these investments have resulted in an We welcome our new shareholders to our first annual report as a increase in operating costs and reduced reported operating margin public company and look forward to partnering with you in the inrecent years, we believe that they have provided the business yearsto come.
withthe requisite scale and operating leverage to generate significant profit growth into the future.
HISTORY & STRENGTHS st JimmyChoo is a 21 century accessories brand with shoes at its This investment phase is nearing completion and we look forward heart, with a focus on glamour, style authority, craftsmanship, tothe new systems backbone not only supporting long term growth luxurypositioning and a distinctive iconic brand.
in what is a complex category, but also enabling us to move to an omnichannel model in the near term.
In addition, the regional offices JimmyChoos journey started in 1996 from an entrepreneurial start-up in New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Beijing, Paris and Milan provide the partnership, where a combination of the shoes of Mr. JimmyChoo, distribution network with the support and drive to grow the global OBE and the drive and inspiration of Tamara Mellon, OBE, created footprint profitably.
They opened the first store in 1996, IPO inMotcomb Street in London SW1, and sold 3,000 pairs of the firstready-to-wear shoe collection, with Mr. JimmyChoos niece, JAB Luxury have invested in the JimmyChoo business for the long Sandra Choi, serving as the companys Creative Director, a role term.
While JAB Luxury intend to remain majority shareholders of the she still holds today.
business for the foreseeable future, we believe that bringing outside investors in and exposing the company to public scrutiny ensures the In 1998, JimmyChoo opened its first boutique in New York City, best governance to drive long term growth and helps to promote the followed by Los Angeles.
JimmyChoo became an innovator in brand and incentivise the team.
Hollywood, being the first accessory brand to offer award nominees and presenters customised shoes for their red carpet appearances.
The brands presence on the red carpet helped to create a global following and to make it a favoured brand among celebrities, supermodels and royalty.
Throughout its history, JimmyChoo has been identified by the media as a key element of the fashion zeitgeist, with prominence in films and television such as Sex and the City in 1999, The Devil Wears Prada in 2006 and the Korean show My Love from the Star in2013.
There followed a sustained period of strong retail expansion supported by private equity ownership.
In 2011, when JAB Luxury OPENING THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 22 OCTOBER 2014 GmbH JAB Luxury acquired JimmyChoo, we had a vision of a long term continued growth strategy built upon the amazing brand and people in the business, underpinned by significant new Continuing the journey of the company, we therefore launched investment in systems and processes.
JimmyChoo PLC on the London Stock Exchange on 22 October 2014 Admission.
It was a time of turmoil in the markets, with the FTSE JAB Luxury recognised JimmyChoo as a world class brand, 100 falling by 9% over the marketing period.
However, we were operating in an attractive market, with a strong design, looking for long term partners in the future of JimmyChoo, and the merchandising, production and distribution platform, supported investors we met recognised that the fundamentals of the business by a 360 degree communication programme.
behind the JimmyChoo brand are strong.
As a result, we priced the IPO within the original price range, despite the fluctuations of the Luxury shoes are an incredibly complex category, with a range of wider market.
We are very pleased with the calibre of the investors functions pumps, boots, sandals, wedges, sneakers each at various who have joined us in owning JimmyChoo PLC.
heel heights, each in a number of colours and materials and each in arange of sizes.
This complexity means that in order to grow beyond a certain point, systems and processes need to be sophisticated and scalable, which requires significant investment behind the scenes.
Taking JimmyChoo out of private equity hands in 2011 provided the environment for that core investment to commence.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 19 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED OVERVIEW OF RESULTS GOVERNANCE We are very pleased with the strong performance of the business in We believe that good corporate governance is the key to good 2014.
Revenue increased by 12.2% on a constant currency basis and businesses continuing to grow profitably for the long term.
Our well invested business demonstrated its operational gearing potential, with adjusted EBITDA growing by The Board is mindful of the need to protect and promote the interests 7.2% to 50.2m and adjusted EBT growing by 19.8% to 28.3m.
of the Companys new minority investors.
We believe the Board and its Committees, with the addition of the independent Non-Executive BOARD COMPOSITION Directors Gianluca Brozzetti, David Poulter and Bob Singer provide In order to support our CEO Pierre Denis, our CFO Jonathan Sinclair the appropriate corporate governance balance in light of the interests and the senior management team in running the day to day of both the majority shareholder and new minority shareholders.
operations of the company, we have brought together an international The Audit and Risk Committee consists solely of independent Board of Directors with extensive experience of running public directors and the Board has also established a Conflicts Committee companies in a global environment.
Between us, we have experience to help manage the relationship between the Company and our of luxury goods, retail and consumer goods from small cap to global majority shareholder.
We believe that by using that wealth of OUTLOOK experience to help monitor and guide the path of the management ofthe company, we will ensure that the growth JimmyChoo has We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of focussing on produced to date will continue for the foreseeable future.
On the design of high quality collections which resonate with our clients 5March2015, Judith Sprieser informed me that she had decided and growth in the retail business through like for like growth and tostep down from the Board for personal reasons unrelated to the opening additional stores with a focus on Asia ex-Japan and Japan.
We are grateful to Judith for the input and support she hasprovided to the Company since the IPO in October.
We are sad We are rolling out 10 to 15 new DOS, with a focus on China, and tosee her leave the Board, but understand her reasons for making renovating 10 to 15 of our existing portfolio of DOS in the new store this decision and we fully support her.
Please see page 46 for an concept.
Japan and Asia ex-Japan continue to grow well, while introduction to the high calibre individuals who have joined Pierre, EMEA remains impacted by a reduction in Russian travellers.
We Jonathan and meon the Board.
continue to see outperformance by stores in the new store concept.
We remain focused on executing our growth strategy and pursuing growth without compromising our brand or its luxury position, despite the more challenging macroeconomic environment.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 20
