"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement ""In May, following the retirement of Allister Langlands, I was delighted to be appointed non-executive Chairman of Wood Group: a business with tremendous people, a comprehensive range of value adding services, and operating in a market with strong long-term fundamentals. """
Introduction In May, following the retirement of Allister Langlands, I was delighted Also in November, we announced a new role of Chief Operating Officer to be appointed non-executive Chairman of Wood Group: a business COO in recognition of the increasing breadth of the Groups operations with tremendous people, a comprehensive range of value adding and longer term growth potential.
Robin Watson, currently CEO of services, and operating in a market with strong long-term fundamentals, Wood Group PSN, will take on this role during the first half of 2015. notwithstanding the current lower oil price environment.
Mike Straughen, Group Director of Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE, retired from the Board in June 2014.
Mike served Markets on the Board since 2007, initially as Chief Executive of Wood Group Engineering.
He oversaw impressive growth in the Groups Engineering In 2014, we saw the anticipated reduction in capex by many operators as business globally and made a significant contribution in leading the Group they looked to increase efficiency on capital projects although some areas, HSSE function.
At the AGM in May, Michel Contie will also step down from such as independents in North America and NOCs, generally continued the Board, having served for 5 years as a non-executive director.
Towards the end of 2014 we witnessed a decline in the oil price.
The impact of this and actions we are taking as a result are addressed in this report.
Outlook We will continue to be directed by our Core Values.
We will focus on Dividend helping customers increase productivity and efficiency in new projects The Group performed well in 2014, delivering in line with expectations.
and existing operations and extend asset lives, while recognising safety In February 2014, we outlined our expectation of an increase in the as the number one priority.
In conjunction with our focus on customer 2014 dividend by around 25%.
The Board has recommended a final efficiency, we are also implementing internal cost and efficiency dividend of 18.6 cents per share, which makes a total distribution for measures to ensure we remain competitive.
the year of 27.5 cents, an increase of 25%.
Reflecting our confidence We will remain a reimbursable, asset light business with a balance in longer term growth, our intention remains to increase the US dollar of opex and capex activities, a broad range of longer term contracts dividend per share for 2015 onwards by a double digit percentage.
and significant customer and geographic diversification.
As we look to 2015, we expect financial performance to demonstrate the relative Board changes resilience of our underlying business in a challenging market and we will see the full year benefit from completed acquisitions.
Allister Langlands retired as Chairman in May having held the role since 2012, being CEO prior to that from 2007 and deputy CEO from 1999.
He was an excellent leader of Wood Group and the Board, and we are grateful for his extraordinary contribution.
In November, we announced that Alan Semple, our long serving Chief Financial Officer CFO, will retire from the Board in May 2015.
David Kemp will succeed Alan in the role of Group CFO.
David joined the Group in 2013 as Wood Group PSN CFO and has demonstrated sound judgement, financial acumen and knowledge in his role.
Ian Marchant, Chairman 4 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5
