6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Chairmans Statement In Summary Underlying earnings per share of I am pleased to report that Johnson Matthey performed well in 2013 14.
The group has made good progress Dividend per share increased by 10% in all of its main markets, benefiting from 57.0 pence to 62.5 pence.
from our commitment to long term investment in research and development Board succession effectively and our strategy of organic growth managed with a number of changes complemented by targeted acquisitions.
As a result, we have seen underlying earnings per share increase by 16% Tim Stevenson Chairman to 170.6 pence.
However, it has not all been plain sailing.
The well publicised change to our long term contracts with Anglo American Platinum Limited came into effect on 1st January this year.
Whilst this has impacted revenue and profit in our Precious Metal Products Division in the final quarter of the year, and will continue to do so in 2014 15, Johnson Matthey has weathered the change well: the rebasing is understood by our shareholders, the effect on employees has been kept to a minimum and the companys share price has remained robust during 2013 14.
The change has released a strategic constraint.
It coincided with our review of group strategy towards the end of 2013 and provided an opportunity for Johnson Matthey to think more broadly about how best to apply its expertise.
Whilst concluding that our strategy was sound, we considered that going forward we could embrace a wider range of advanced materials and technology and increase our emphasis on collaboration, customer focus and creating value.
A key role of your board is to ensure successful succession planning.
This is fundamental to board effectiveness and is integral to the delivery of Johnson Mattheys strategy.
During the year we announced a number of executive level changes.
Neil Carson has decided, after a highly successful decade as Chief Executive, to retire in 2014 and in January we announced that Robert MacLeod will succeed Neil as our Chief Executive.
Neil has made an outstanding contribution in his 34 years at Johnson Matthey, including as Chief Executive since 2004.
He has been the architect of the successful company that is Johnson Matthey today, not only in its financial performance, but also its culture, style, integrity and business approach.
7 Neil will step down from his role on Following Michaels retirement, Over the last 12 months I have 5th June 2014 and will retire from the Alan Ferguson, a non-executive director had the pleasure of meeting many of company at the end of September.
and Chairman of our Audit Committee, our employees around the world and Id like to personally thank him for his will be appointed to the role of Senior continue to be impressed by their support and remarkable commitment Independent Director.
Dorothy professionalism, competence and the to the good of our business.
On behalf Thompson, a non-executive director, pride they feel in working for Johnson of the board, I wish him all the very best will be appointed as chair of our Matthey.
On behalf of our stakeholders, for the future.
Management Development and Id like to thank all our people for their The board is extremely pleased to Remuneration Committee.
hard work and contribution to our have a very able and natural successor Diversity in the boardroom, in its performance this year.
Robert has served broadest sense, is vital to ensuring And so to conclude, Johnson as Group Finance Director alongside board effectiveness.
During the year Matthey has continued to make good Neil, developing a knowledge and we welcomed two new members to progress in building a sustainable experience of Johnson Matthey, its the board: Odile Desforges, who brings business that delivers superior value for culture and markets.
Since joining the deep experience of the global automotive its shareholders.
The long term drivers company in 2009 Robert has played industry, joined us in July 2013 as a for our company remain firmly in place a key role in the groups strategy and non-executive director and John Walker and I am confident that this, together new business development as well as joined us in October 2013 as Executive with our robust strategy, should support in introducing more robust business Director for Emission Control the continued growth of Johnson processes across the company.
My Technologies, having been with Johnson Matthey over the years ahead.
board colleagues and I are confident Matthey since 1984.
Both Odile and that Robert will be a highly successful John have enhanced the boards mix, Chief Executive, bringing the ability to balance of experience and skills.
As we combine recent outside experience with seek to appoint a new non-executive an understanding of the legacy he is director following Michaels retirement, taking over.
This combination will enable we are looking closely at how to Tim Stevenson him to implement a proven strategy that optimise further the diversity of the Chairman will deliver further growth.
board across all areas, including In addition, I am delighted to technical experience that is relevant to welcome Den Jones to Johnson Matthey.
Den will succeed Robert as Group It is Johnson Mattheys people Finance Director and joins the board who, more than any other factor, make on 5th June 2014.
Den joins us from the company special: investing in their BG Group and brings a blend of strong development is without doubt one of financial leadership credentials, the key investments that we can make international experience and highly in the future of our business.
Weve developed commercial awareness to reviewed our human resources strategy Johnson Matthey.
this year and have identified talent In April 2014 we announced that management as a key priority.
Work Michael Roney, a non-executive director, is underway to help accelerate the Senior Independent Director and development of our people with Chairman of our Management increased emphasis on important Development and Remuneration growth regions for our business.
Committee, has decided to retire from It is the responsibility of everyone in the board at the close of our annual Johnson Matthey to ensure the safety, general meeting on 23rd July 2014. health and wellbeing of our colleagues Michael has been a strong and very across the globe.
This is an area to effective non-executive director during which the board has given particular and his seven years of service.
His deep detailed attention over the course of the commercial experience and pragmatic year.
Whilst we have continued to make approach will be much missed by his progress in some areas this year we colleagues on the board and we all recognise the need to reinvigorate our wish him well for the future.
Work is underway to refresh our programmes and processes to drive further improvement in performance.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
