STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUING OUR TRANSFORMATION Simon Heale, Chairman In 2014 we successfully completed a major restructuring of A restructuring proposal was developed with the objective of our operations which has accelerated the transformation of our achieving sustainable positive cash flow from existing operations business into a high growth miner focused on large scale, low cost, whilst supporting the development of the major growth projects.
open-pit copper extraction in Kazakhstan.
Following the disposal of Under the proposal, the Zhezkazgan and Central Region assets, non-core assets of ENRC PLC and MKM in 2013, the sale of our which included relatively mature underground mines, concentrators, 50% holding in Ekibastuz GRES-1 and the Restructuring in 2014, power plants and copper smelters, would be separated from the KAZ Minerals has retained a portfolio of highly competitive assets Group and divested to Cuprum Holding, a vehicle owned by the and is well positioned to deliver one of the highest growth profiles Companys major shareholder and non-executive Director, in the industry.
Vladimir Kim and the Companys then executive Director Eduard Ogay.
Vladimir Kim and Eduard Ogays knowledge of the assets, Restructuring understanding of the operating environment and standing in Over the past few years, a combination of declining grades, cost Kazakhstan made a disposal to Cuprum Holding the most attractive inflation and lower commodity prices had put significant pressure and feasible route for the Group to exit from these operations.
on the Groups profitability and cash generation.
An optimisation The restructuring proposal was put to shareholders in a circular programme and asset review was undertaken in response to these dated 23 July 2014, with a unanimous recommendation from the pressures which achieved cost savings and reductions in sustaining independent Directors of the Company who had received a capital expenditure.
However, it became clear that a number of fairness opinion from two investment banks.
The Restructuring the Groups mature assets in the Zhezkazgan and Central Regions was overwhelmingly approved on 15 August 2014 by independent would struggle to meet their own ongoing investment needs and shareholders and under the terms of the Restructuring the Disposal return to making a positive overall contribution to Group cash Assets were economically separated from the continuing operations flow.
These mature assets required significant further investment from 1 August 2014. to extend their operational lives.
Such investment was incompatible with the Groups existing spending commitments on the major growth projects.
10 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT For more information, see pages 30 Corporate Governance Overview 72 Governance Framework In light of the past performance and future outlook of the Disposal Lord Renwick of Clifton has indicated his intention to step down Assets, the Restructuring included a cash payment from the Group as a Director of the Company with effect from the Annual General to Cuprum Holding to cover the working capital requirements of Meeting on 7 May 2015.
I would like to thank Robin on behalf the Disposal Assets.
On 31 October 2014, the Disposal Assets of the Board and all of our colleagues in KAZ Minerals for the left the Group with net funds of $188 million.
immense contribution he has made to the Group since 2005.
Robin was one of the first independent non-executive Directors A transaction of this scale, separating a previously integrated to join the Board and was instrumental to the Groups listing in business, has been complex, however we were able to complete 2005.
His trusted counsel in the fields of diplomacy, mining and the Restructuring ahead of our expectations.
I am very grateful capital markets has been invaluable to the Group, coupled with for the hard work and commitment of staff involved on both his understanding of the economic and cultural aspects of sides of the transaction which made this possible.
The Company operating in Kazakhstan.
He will be greatly missed.
has been renamed KAZ Minerals PLC and the assets transferred to Cuprum Holding will continue to operate under the trading I am also pleased to report the appointment of John MacKenzie, name of Kazakhmys.
who will be joining the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2015.
As the former CEO of Copper for A key objective of the Restructuring was to create two separate, Anglo American, John brings extensive experience of the copper independent businesses with no shared management.
However, mining industry and we look forward to him joining us.
there are certain services which Cuprum Holding will continue to provide where it is in the interests of KAZ Minerals.
These Health, safety and environment services, which are subject to the UK Listing Authority regulations We continue to be committed to improving our health and safety on related party transactions, are provided on an arms length basis performance, both in our producing assets and at the major and were approved by independent shareholders on 15 August growth projects.
It is with deep regret that I must report a total 2014.
The most significant service is for Cuprum Holding to smelt of 13 fatalities across the Group in the year to 31 December 2014. and refine concentrate from the mines in the East Region and Seven of these fatalities occurred at the Disposal Assets between Bozymchak at the Balkhash smelter under a tolling agreement.
1 January and 31 October, whilst six occurred at the continuing operations in the 12 months to 31 December 2014.
The number The Disposal Assets are now under an ownership structure of fatalities has fallen significantly over the past few years, however, which is better positioned to address the specific challenges we view every fatality as avoidable and unacceptable and the that they face.
We wish Vladimir Kim, Eduard Ogay and all Board continues to work towards our target of zero fatalities.
of our former colleagues every success in the future.
The reduction in scale of the Groups operating assets following Following the Restructuring, KAZ Minerals retains four mines the Restructuring and the start-up of the major growth projects and associated concentrators in the East Region, the Bozymchak provides the opportunity for more rapid improvements to our copper and gold mine and concentrator in Kyrgyzstan and the safety culture and working practices.
major growth projects of Bozshakol, Aktogay and Koksay.
Board changes The reduction in scale of the There have been two changes to the Board of Directors of the Groups operating assets following Company in 2014.
At the end of October 2014, Eduard Ogay, the Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and the Restructuring and the start-up a Director of Kazakhmys PLC, left the Company to assume a new of the major growth projects provides position at Cuprum Holding managing the Disposal Assets, and is no longer an employee or Director of KAZ Minerals PLC.
The the opportunity for more rapid Groups Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Southam, joined the improvements to our safety culture Board of Directors on 1 November 2014.
I would like to take the opportunity to wish both of them the very best of luck in and working practices.
their new roles and to thank Eduard for his contribution over his 13 years of service including eight years as Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
The Board continues to be compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Codes independence recommendations with a total of nine Directors, of whom five are independent.
com 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Major growth projects I am pleased to report continued I am pleased to report continued progress at Bozshakol, the first of progress at Bozshakol, the first our major growth projects, and that it is on schedule to commence commissioning in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We began training of our major growth projects, and production personnel, as planned, in December 2014 in advance that it is on schedule to commence of pre-production mining commencing in the first half of 2015.
The final phase of construction and equipment installation works commissioning in the fourth quarter can now be accelerated as we emerge from the winter period.
Our second project, Aktogay, is also in the construction phase and works are proceeding on schedule.
Production from the oxide ore at Aktogay is expected in the fourth quarter of 2015 and output from the main sulphide ore body will begin in 2017.
Following the Restructuring, we no longer own or operate In 2014 we added a third project to our portfolio with the smelting or power generation assets, which reduces the Groups acquisition of Koksay for a total consideration of $260 million, direct CO emissions and other harmful emissions to air.
Energy 2 of which $35 million is deferred to 2015 dependent on drilling consumption, water usage and waste generation have also reduced results.
Koksay has the potential to be another large scale, low cost, as a result of the Restructuring, but will continue to be high open-pit copper mine in Kazakhstan, similar to the Bozshakol and priority areas for our East Region environmental programme.
Aktogay projects, providing additional growth in the longer term.
There are a number of ongoing initiatives to address water usage and tailings management.
We are committed to managing our Dividends direct environmental impacts carefully and continue to seek to Our dividend policy, established at the time of Listing, is for the ensure our operations and those of our partners minimise harm to Board to consider the cash generation and financing requirements of the environment and the communities around us.
The Corporate the business and then recommend a suitable dividend.
This maintains Responsibility section of this report and our website contain more flexibility which is appropriate given the underlying cyclicality of details on our approach and performance.
Given the financing requirements of the major growth projects during their construction, the Board does Operational and financial performance in 2014 not recommend a dividend at this time.
It is however the Boards Copper prices during the year came under pressure due to intention that the Group resumes dividend payments in the future.
markets anticipating a global supply surplus in 2014 and the The Group has a strong record of payments to shareholders with near term, although a consensus is emerging that the market returns of $2,095 million in ordinary dividends, buy-backs and may return to deficit from 2017 as mines mature and average special dividends since its Listing in 2005. grades reduce across the industry.
Outlook The continuing operations produced 83.5 kt of copper cathode 2015 will be an important year for KAZ Minerals as we will in 2014, generating revenues of $846 million and EBITDA commence the commissioning of Bozshakol, the first of our excluding special items of $355 million.
major growth projects, in the fourth quarter.
By 2018, we As a result of the completion of the Restructuring, the Group expect to be producing around 300 kt of copper in concentrate, recognised an accounting charge of $2.3 billion in 2014 in respect with 80% of Group production coming from new, large scale, low of the Disposal Assets, which includes $0.7 billion for the recycling cost, open-pit mines.
I look forward to updating shareholders as of historic foreign exchange losses.
we continue the transformation of the Group.
Simon Heale Chairman 12 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014
