STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement The business has successfully refocused on those activities that deliver most value to customers At the same time, we are mindful that how we operate as a business is as important as the services we offer Dear shareholder The Group has performed well during the past financial year, with progress being made in all our target markets.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in July, the Board isproposing a final dividend of 3.25 pence per share, which is in line with ourexisting commitment toincrease the full year dividend by 10percent per annum until March 2016.
This financial year alsomarks akey point in the transformation for our Group.
Graham Holden Chairman KCOM Group PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2013 14 Strategic report Over the past five years, Bill Halbert has led the Board and the Kevin Walsh, one of our Executive Directors, announced his intention Groupas Executive Chairman.
During that period, the business toretire from the Group during the summer of 2014 and he will not be hassuccessfully refocused on those activities that deliver most seeking re-election at the AGM.
Kevin joined the business in May2004 valueto our customers and offer opportunities to grow our and, alongside his Executive Director role, was responsible for the marketpresence: at the same time, we have been able to provide management of our KC brand for the past 10 years.
During thattime, progressive dividend growth to shareholders.
Having completed he oversaw its transition into the UKs leading provider of fibre-based thatstage of the Groups transition, the Board agreed it was an services.
On behalf of the Board, Id like to thank him for his contribution appropriate time to move toamore traditional Board structure, with and insight and wish him well with his retirement plans.
separate Chairman andChief Executive Officer roles.
This provides BillHalbert, as ChiefExecutive, with additional capacity to drive As part of our ongoing transformation, we are mindful that how forwardthe Groups strategy and Iam delighted and proud to have weoperate as a business is as important as the services we offer.
There has been a great deal of progress in both areas.
KC has been shortlisted in three categories in this years Internet Service Providers Having seen the Group develop and transform during my time as a ISPA Awards including Best Superfast Broadband, Best Business Non-Executive Director, I know that there is a wealth of talent within Customer Service and Best Business Use of Cloud for our fibre-based the organisation and it has such a great heritage on which to build.
Our Eclipse brand was recognised in the Comms Inmy role as Chairman, my focus will be to ensure that your Board National Awards in the SME Vertical Solution category for its supply of operates effectively and in line with good governance.
I am also ICT products and services.
Our community programmes, which offer committed to being an ambassador for the Group both internally and employees the chance to give something back to their local area, externally, supporting Bill and his leadership team as they steer the remain very popular with individuals and as team building business through its next stage of transformation.
As part of our patronage of the Princes Trust, people across the Group have donated over 2,000 volunteering hours, in this We have an extremely effective Board, with strong, experienced year alone, to help disadvantaged youngpeople to find work.
Non-Executive Directors with a range of skills and experience which enables a good level of debate and challenge.
Having transitioned to Finally, Id like to acknowledge the immense contribution made by anew Board structure, we have been looking to appoint an additional everyone across our organisation.
Working against a backdrop of Non-Executive Director and are mindful that one of the key challenges economic uncertainty and ongoing business transformation, it is facing many publicly quoted companies is that of reflecting diversity on challenging to deliver such progress.
Id like to thank everyone for their their Boards.
As a Group, we are committed to reflecting diversity of all efforts over the past year.
It is their commitment to providing inspiring kinds, and gender in particular.
This forms an important part of our customer experiences that builds our growing reputation in the market.
People Strategy and has been a key area of focus in our selection process for a new Non-Executive Director.
While the selection process isongoing, our aim is to bring wider diversity to the Board within the next 12months, subject to finding a candidate with the right experience Graham Holden and skills.
Any new appointments to the Board will stand for election by Non-Executive Chairman shareholders at the AGM in 2015.
18 June 2014 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 11
