Chairmans statement A robust business 2014 was a successful year for Kier.
I am pleased to report a good set of results for the Group which build on the positive performance of recent years.
The results The 2014 financial year was a successful one for the business and, once again, I am pleased to report a good set of results for the Group.
We continue to build on the positive performance of recent years and are particularly pleased to see the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition, which transformed the scale and diversity of the Group, being realised.
Before discussing the results, I want to explain some changes to the form of this report.
Regulatory requirements have become ever more onerous and you will see that this years report is written in a different style to those which we have produced in previous years.
As a Board, we have recognised the requirement for the information contained in this annual report to be fair, balanced and understandable and to contain the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
We have therefore focused on describing our refreshed strategy for growth Vision 2020 which has also provided us with an opportunity to demonstrate the new business model so as to set out, in a transparent way, how the Group operates.
I hope you find the additional information helpful.
In the year to 30 June 2014, Group profit before tax was 73.1m 2013: 47.6m with full year underlying earnings per share of 107.7p 2013: 105.6p, in line with expectations.
The Group continued to convert profit to cash and manage hard its working capital.
Average Group month-end net debt was 140m 2013: 4m, a good result given the continuing pressure on working capital and the acquisition of May Gurney.
Dividend To reflect the Groups progressive dividend policy and the Boards continued confidence in the Group, a total dividend for the year of 72.0p, a 6% increase, is proposed.
The final dividend of 49.5p will be paid on 28 November 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 September 2014.
A scrip dividend alternative will also be available.
Strategy Kier is all around us we invest in, build, maintain and renew places where we all work, live and play.
Following the appointment of the new chief executive, the Board has re-defined the strategy of the Group.
Our refreshed focus is to develop the business significantly over the next five years whilst delivering a safe, robust, sustainable and optimised performance from efficient business processes.
The following strategic review sets out how we aim to deliver on our future plan.
Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 see note 31 page 132.
Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling 42.2m 2013: 17.0m, amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of 10.8m 2013: 3.4m and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of 5.3m 2013: 1.3m.
Reported operating profit was 35.0m 2013: 35.1m, reported pre-tax profit was 14.8m 2013: 25.9m and reported EPS was 18.4p 2013: 62.6p.
2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation see note 4 page 106.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Dividend per share 72.0p 6% 2013: 68.0p Earnings per share 107.7p 2% 2013: 105.6p The Board Governance During the year, a number of changes to the Board took place.
In February, it was announced that Paul Sheffield For details of key governance committees please see: would step down as chief executive from the Board with effect from 30 June 2014.
Paul joined Kier in 1983 Nomination Safety, Health and and his contribution over 30 years to the Group was Committee Environment Committee considerable, most recently overseeing the acquisition and integration of May Gurney.
The Board thanks Paul See page 60 for more information See page 62 for more information for his contribution to Kier and we wish him well for the future.
As part of our succession planning, Haydn Mursell, previously the finance director, took up the role of chief executive on 1 July.
Risk Management and Directors Remuneration Today, I am pleased to announce that Beverley Dew Audit Committee Report will be joining the Group as finance director.
A further announcement will be made in due course to confirm See page 63 for more information See page 67 for more information the date on which his appointment will become effective.
In February, Chris Geoghegan retired from the Board.
Richard Bailey assumed the role of senior independent non-executive director, in addition to his role as chairman of the Risk Management and Audit Committee.
Amanda I am pleased to report a good set of results that show Mellor became the chair of the Remuneration Committee significant progress on last year and demonstrate the and I took over as chair of the Nomination Committee.
strength of the operational performance of the business and the benefits of the May Gurney acquisition.
On 1 September, Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board as a non-executive director.
With over 20 years experience Despite inflationary price and labour cost pressures in with BP plc, Kirsty brings a broad range of skills and the market, our margins remained solid, particularly in experience, particularly in organisational effectiveness our Services business.
Following the integration of May and business improvement.
I would like to welcome Kirsty Gurney, which transformed the scale and diversity of the to the Board.
Group, the breadth of our capabilities has resulted in new as well as larger contract awards.
We are now able to help Our people our customers maximise the value of their assets as they Kiers success lies in its ability to recruit, retain and develop invest, build, maintain and renew them.
Our capabilities the skills of its employees.
Against a climate of increasing extend from negotiating finance and planning permissions market demand, there are additional pressures to ensure to constructing major buildings and infrastructure, as well we have the right teams in place.
We are ever mindful of our as providing facilities management and environmental responsibility to invest in our teams, ensuring we give them services.
This breadth of capabilities puts us in a good the opportunity to grow their skills.
We aim to excel and position to pursue future growth.
create an engaging and stimulating environment for our people.
I am pleased that at Kier we have an experienced While the economic climate continues to be positive, team with ambition for the Group.
I would like to take this operating margins are under pressure due to inflationary opportunity on behalf of the Board to thank all our employees cost increases in the supply chain.
Cash generation will for their commitment, professionalism and sheer hard work continue to be constrained in the short-term.
strong risk management and our ability to offer a greater range of service offerings positions us well for the future.
Outlook These results demonstrate the continued strength of the The continuing improvements in our operating performance Group.
The business offers a broad set of capabilities and our strong order book mean that we are on course to which, when combined with a strong regional presence, meet the Boards expectations for the current financial year.
Accordingly, our UK divisions are increasingly providing a more integrated offering to customers.
The portfolio of Group businesses Phil White is also a natural hedge against the cyclical nature of the Chairman markets in which we operate, with our Property and Residential businesses at the front, while the Construction and Services businesses come into their own at the back of the cycle.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7
