Strategic Report Chairmans statement I am delighted to announce the start of a programme to return surplus capital to our shareholders, in addition to the annual dividend, the first such programme in Kingfishers 32-year history.
Daniel Bernard Chairman It has been another difficult year for Highlights of the year included another Further progress was made on our retailers, due to the challenging economic very strong performance from Screwfix sustainability agenda through Kingfishers environment which has affected several of in the UK, which continued to expand Net Positive plan, with achievements in th the markets in which Kingfisher operates.
fast, opening its 300 outlet during the responsibly sourced timber, energy usage In France, our biggest market, high levels year.
B&Q had a more difficult year and and community projects.
You can read of unemployment and higher taxes so the B&Q management team was more about these initiatives in the Chief have led to consumer uncertainty, with strengthened in order to better position Executives statement on page 5 and customers opting to save more rather than the business for the opportunities that any the Net Positive section on pages spend more.
In the UK, we saw a tough improvement in the economy should 18 to 19. start to the year but an improvement as provide.
In France, Castorama grew its We are committed to diversity among our the year progressed, helped by falling share of a market that was slightly down workforce and there is further information unemployment and positive signs in the during the year, and we continued to on our diversity policies and metrics on housing market.
expand the Brico Dpt brand, with new pages 18 to 19, 37 and 69. stores in France and Spain, as well as Despite this weak economic backdrop, the acquisition of 15 stores in Romania, As always, I would like to thank our Kingfisher was able to deliver some Kingfishers first new market since 2006.
79,000 staff for their hard work during growth, with adjusted pre-tax profits the year.
In a people business such as increasing by 4.1% on the previous We continued to make good progress retailing their contribution is vital, and year to 744 million.
We generated with our strategic agenda, Creating the it is through them that we can achieve 559 million of free cash flow and Leader, which aims to position Kingfisher Kingfishers purpose of helping our strengthened our balance sheet, finishing as a clear leader in home improvement customers have better homes and the year with net cash of 238 million.
Many of the short-term benefits better lives.
As a result, the Board recommended of this programme have been used to an increase in the full year dividend of support our results in a weaker than 4.7%, making a total of 9.9p.
I am also anticipated economic environment, Daniel Bernard delighted to announce the start of a including improving prices for customers Chairman programme to return surplus capital to in our major markets of France, the UK our shareholders, in addition to the annual and Poland.
dividend, the first such programme in Kingfishers 32-year history.
Key highlights Adjusted basic Basic earnings Adjusted pre-tax profit Profit before taxation earnings per share per share Full year dividend 744m 759m 23.4p 30.0p 9.9p 4.1% 9.8% 4.9% 24.5% 4.7% Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 4 4
