04 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUTLINE 2014 WAS A YEAR IN WHICH THE Our belief in the shape of the year was correct.
We ended the year with all our operational targets met and with the evidence emerging that our STRENGTH OF THE LADBROKES structural improvements are driving improved customer metrics and financial performance.
We enter 2015 confident but not complacent.
BRANDBEGAN TO BE FULLY WORLD CUP CHALLENGE MATCHEDBY A COMPETITIVE OFFER.
The World Cup was the acid test for the business after four years of substantive rebuilding and the Ladbrokes team rose to the challenge.
WEENTERED THE YEAR BELIEVING In what was a fiercely competitive market we competed hard and across all the key metrics we regarded as important, the business delivered.
Overall staking was up 22.4% with the key area of Digital THAT THE FIRST HALF WOULD ALL seeing net revenue up 25.9%.
It was the mobile World Cup as customers chose their mobiles to be the portal of choice and our offer BEABOUT OPERATIONAL DELIVERY more than met their expectations.
Mobile staking growth was up over 1,100% and accounted for 63% of all Sportsbook staking.
Retail, while AND THE SECOND HALF WOULD impacted by the switch to mobile, still delivered with staking up 7.9%.
While the tournament did not start with the bang we hoped, with BEABOUT GROWTH.
results initially weak, we held our nerve, we backed our judgement onthe teams to take on and the teams to avoid and we traded hard.
This resulted in a gross win margin of 24.3% and an overall gross winof28.0m for the tournament.
CORE BUSINESS ON TRACK Aside from the World Cup the litmus test for our competitiveness hasbeen the performance of our Digital business.
We entered 2014 with anew management team and the Playtech partnership still beingimplemented as we exited previous contractual commitments.
Werecognised that the pace of progress caused frustration in the short-term but we remained confident that these were obstacles not barriers to our long-term opportunities and progress.
Our Sportsbook offer and the performance of Mobile are encouraging signs that where we have the product and platform in place the brand can deliver.
The early signs are that Gaming is beginning to reap the benefits of the changes we have put in place.
We enter 2015 with the foundations in place to allow the business to deliver the full potential ofthe Playtech deal.
The retail environment continues to remain challenging but our Retail offer continues to be an engine for the wider Ladbrokes business.
However, we cannot afford to stand still as our market continues to evolve.
We continued to invest in the offer to keep it relevant for the modern customer and in the year we introduced Self Service Betting Terminals SSBTs, a wider and more attractive football offer and more modern gaming machines, all to meet growing customer expectation on service and experience.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 We are not blind to the challenges retail faces in a rapidly changing ability to exploit them.
We looked at our core strengths and the power consumer world.
Customers have more choice on how they want to of our trading and liability management teams and technology to drive consume, more expectations on convenience and greater awareness new business opportunities and efficiencies.
Yet like all retailers, we know that if we can be the customers Perhaps the biggest decision we faced this year was over the number one choice on the High Street and online, we will get a higher leadership of the business.
Richard Glynn joined us as Chief Executive return on that customer.
That is why we believe we have to keep in 2010 with a clear remit to engineer a turnaround in the business and investing in our Retail and Digital offer in unison and win the multimake us competitive once again.
I think in hindsight, none of us channel customer over to Ladbrokes.
realised just how big a task this was.
Richard worked tirelessly in his A key part of the future of Ladbrokes is the need to build income quest to deliver a stronger Ladbrokes.
The journey has not always streams outside of the UK.
As we have seen over the year, the been smooth and shareholder patience has been tested, but as a regulatory and political uncertainty of the UK can hinder a fair Board we strongly believe that we are fundamentally more resilient reflectionof the value of the business.
andcompetitive than we were and that the foundations have been laidto build a stronger more successful Ladbrokes.
That is why it is pleasing to report on the positive steps taken by ourinternational business this year.
In Spain and Belgium we have That naturally led us to consider the composition of the team going established an online presence to complement our retail offer.
In forward and in discussing it with Richard, we came to the mutual Australia we entered the market with a small acquisition at the end conclusion that it was time to let someone new take over the reins.
of2013 and have doubled its size through acquisition and organic Richard leaves with the Boards gratitude and my personal thanks for growth.
Opportunities overseas can take a long time to come to the determination, commitment and passion he brought to the role.
fruition and are often hard fought but we remain alive to the power No one has fought harder for Ladbrokes than Richard in the last five ofour brand to either translate to new countries or to be a credible years and I wish him all the success in the future.
Our positions in China and USAevidence this belief and while currently small, offer potential LOOKING AHEAD long-term opportunities.
Building on the foundations laid over the last few years is the key task facing the new Ladbrokes management team.
As part of that task, we SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY have also looked at the right incentives to have in place.
The Ladbrokes Responsible gambling has always been at the heart of the business, Growth Plan was specifically aimed at incentivising a turnaround and but the greater scrutiny we now have as an industry has led us to ends this summer.
We have consulted on a replacement which looks digdeeper into the organisation to ensure we can not only say it with at having the right incentives in place to meet modern best practice but complete confidence but evidence it.
also to act as a catalyst for management out performance.
We believe we have achieved this and look forward to reporting on it successfully We have established a Board Social Responsibility Committee chaired rewarding management for shareholder performance in the future.
by Senior Independent Director, John Kelly, andissues such as our new Responsible Gambling Policy, our commitment to advertise the As the Group implemented its operational turnaround, the Board benefits of taking a responsible approach to gambling and the link committed to pay dividends of 8.9p per share for 2013 and 2014, between executive remuneration and responsible gambling targets outside our historic dividend policy which is based on earnings cover have all been considered.
The foundation of the Senet Group to drive whilst remaining within our target leverage policy of net debt being in greater responsible gambling messaging across the industry has the range of 1.5 2.0 times EBITDA before exceptional items.
been welcomed widely and we areproud to be a founder member.
The Board currently intends to continue to pay a dividend of 8.9p per However, some in the industry have been slow to react to this agenda share for the 2015 financial year.
and are blind to the threat posed by public discontent at their actions.
We enter 2015 conscious that it will be another challenging year, We are not here to give moral lectures to industry partners but there earnings are forecast to be down reflecting regulatory and tax remains a threat at all levels that the actions of the slowest will hurt us headwinds and we will have to run very hard just to stand still with all.
That is why I am proud that we continue to takeastance as an circa50m of extra tax to be borne.
All this on top of the regulatory industry leader and live the measures throughout the business.
uncertainty the General Election will cause.
However, the progress made in the business in 2014 has been through BOARD FOCUS a focus on the matters that are within our control and this will continue Following the travails of 2013 much of the Board focus has been on to be the mantra for the year ahead.
The business is beginning to see ensuring the key operational targets for 2014 outlined by the executive the benefits of its strategy in key customer metrics which lead to team have been delivered.
We were confident in the ability of the financial performance.
The trends are encouraging but we are not business to deliver and that underwrote our commitment to at least getting carried away.
maintaining the dividend for the year.
However, we have not just focused on the here and now, we realise that shareholder value is created over the longer term and we challenged the executive and senior team to look ahead.
In the year welooked at the rise of the multi-channel customer and what that meant for both our Digital and Retail businesses and our reliance on Peter Erskine the UK market.
We examined the international opportunities and our Chairman
