Laird PLC 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chairmans statement A growing and evolving technology company I was delighted to have been appointed as Chairman of and laid the ground for ever greater collaboration going forward.
I have now visited many Laird sites and We thank all our employees for their efforts over the year.
have always been impressed with the strength and depth We believe that a strong and talented Leadership team is the of our Management team and the loyalty and dedication foundation for global success in the fast-moving technology sector.
Laird is a technology company with Several times during the year, our senior managers meet to exchange great potential.
ideas, best practice and customer insights, and once a year the broader management gather to develop their collective leadership A growing and evolving technology company skills.
In 2015, I, together with the other non-executive directors, will In 2014, we began to see the results of Lairds strategic be joining this meeting.
As well as contributing the Boards collective investment and customer focus over the past two years experience, we look to gain greater visibility and understanding from under David Lockwoods leadership.
Delivering embedded management of the implementation of the Companys plans.
technology that captures value for our customers through Board changes innovation and bespoke solutions is at the heart of our success.
The investment in our operations and facilities My focus is on building a strong and collaborative board that provides meant we successfully met strong demand from a range the leadership and experience to help manage Lairds next phase of customers, strengthening our strategic differentiation of growth.
We have conducted a board effectiveness review to through innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed.
We ensure that the Board collectively possesses the necessary breadth have now reported six consecutive quarters of organic and depth of skills.
I will look to reinforce our skills matrix with growth, averaging 8% for 2014 as a whole.
performance was underpinned by new customer wins and In this context, I am delighted to welcome Mike Parker to the closer partnerships with existing customers over the year.
Laird Board as Senior Independent Director.
He brings significant experience as a director of large listed companies with major Cultural transformation One Laird international operations which will be a very important asset to As always, our people are our most important asset.
Their dedication to delivering the best for their customers I would like to thank Paula Bell, Chairman of the Audit Committee for is the cornerstone of our strategy of being a trusted partner additionally undertaking the role of Senior Independent Director for for our clients.
the previous year and a half.
Over the year, we continued our cultural transformation I would also like to express the Companys particular thanks to under the One Laird banner, promoting improved Jonathan Silver, who retires at the Annual General Meeting, after collaboration across our businesses.
This exchange of serving the company for 29 years, 21 as Chief Financial Officer.
ideas and innovation delivered several new customer wins Jonathan has worked tirelessly for the Company through many changes and we wish him all the very best for the future.
Dividends We remain committed to delivering shareholder value through organic growth and a sustainable dividend policy.
After substantial increases in the dividend over the last three financial years, the Board is adopting a progressive dividend policy, increasing returns to shareholders and taking into account both the underlying profitability of the business and its cash requirements, allowing dividend cover to be rebuilt over time.
This year, the Board has declared a 2014 final dividend of 8.23 pence 2013,7.90 pence, resulting in a 4% increase in the total full year dividend to 12.5 pence per share 2013,12.0 pence.
The Boards expectation is to increase dividends ahead of inflation over time, whilst taking into account underlying profitability, the cash requirements of the business and potential investment opportunities to drive future growth.
The final dividend will be payable on 3 July 2015 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2015.
Outlook Over the past two years we have built a strong foundation for delivering sustainable growth in our business.
Our strategy of diversifying our customer base has created a more robust earnings stream, and the continuing investment in developing integrated modules and systems is leading to new customer opportunities and collaboration across our businesses.
The customer mindshare we are developing across a number of our leading customers will help us remain at the technological forefront of our industry.
All these factors give us confidence in our strategy and our vision.
We continue to focus on delivering shareholder value by executing against this strategy.
After a successful year, 2015 has begun well, and we remain confident in the strength of our business.
Dr Martin Read, CBE Chairman 2 March 2015 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
