Lonmin Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executive Officers Letter Success depends on three clear goals: A robust strategy, operational excellence and the quality of the relationships we have with all our key stakeholders.
Key to Lonmins success is the creation of a stable, predictable operating environment and ensuring the business is sustainable through all cycles.
Restoring performance, mining for value and delivering our vision Ben Magara, Chief Executive Officer reflects on 2014 and outlines the Lonmin strategy for going forward.
Dear Fellow Shareholder, The huge impact of a strike of unprecedented length across the South African Platinum Group Metal PGM sector resulted in Lonmin losing 391,000 equivalent saleable Platinum ounces.
Our majority union downed tools on 23 January 2014, demanding a basic wage of R12,500 at the three largest PGM producers in South Africa, including Lonmin.
The three affected producers were all clear that such demands were impossible to meet if we were to remain viable companies, and protect jobs and investment.
Lonmin negotiated and communicated collectively with its peers.
That was the right thing to do, but it did not stop us working towards building better relationships with AMCU and our employees.
On 24 June 2014 an agreement was reached for a return to work.
We believe we can have real confidence in this three year agreement as there is an undertaking that there would be no industrial action in its duration in respect of the issues covered by the wage agreement.
We also concluded agreements with our minority unions to ensure that every employee can be heard.
Behind the scenes much was being done.
We took early decisive action during the strike to protect the business.
Firstly we anticipated the end of the strike and we planned and prepared.
We also made important operational decisions early and applied a disciplined approach to monitoring and securing the operations during the strike to position ourselves well for a re-start when the time came.
Secondly we resumed our processing operations in May using the knowledge we had to judge the strike was close to coming to an end.
Finally, we were bold in our approach to re-starting all our shafts.
We prioritised shafts which would generate cash early, even though they may have been amongst our smaller and older shafts, before moving to our newer, bigger shafts some of which are higher cost assets.
Without the strike we may have chosen to prioritise differently, but we were clear that we needed to be generating cash as early as possible.
The combination of all this early planning and hard work on relationships meant that we saw 85% of employees return on day one, June 25th.
The huge logistics operation we put in place around key areas like medical health, strike-related poverty and transport proved invaluable.
The end result was an industry leading ramp up achieving full production safely within two months.
We optimised the immediately available ore reserves and built on a rapidly established team ethos at the shafts.
We did so with impressive safety numbers and with equally impressive and at Saffy, record tonnages.
Combined with this, the decisive cash conservation measures we put in place to minimise cash burn, together with the effective management of our stock pipeline drawdown, resulted in much improved financial flexibility as we ramped up.
All of these measures have resulted in a small net debt position of $29 million as at 30 September 2014, leaving significant headroom in the $575 million in banking facilities available to the Company.
In all this our management, from the reconfigured executive leadership team described further below down through the tiers, has performed well, and is delivering.
A year ago we promised to deliver on the following priorities and despite the five month strike, I am proud to tell you that we have delivered on our promises: Focusing on Saffy and Hossy to unlock value Continuous improvement on total cost of ownership TCO Living within our means and maximising cash generation Great credit goes to teams which have delivered this, not least because they have done so in extraordinarily challenging circumstances.
So we have a solid foundation on which to build.
I also promised when I started with Lonmin that we would review the total business.
We have to reduce the underlying costs, reduce TCO, improve capital efficiency and productivity.
We have put robust plans in place to this effect.
The value benefits that we anticipate, denominated in Rand, as most of our expenses are incurred in Rand, are targeted over the next three years to amount to more than R2.0 billion.
More details on these can be found in the section on Our Strategy.
w ww ww w.. llo on nm miin n.. c co om m
