Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 2 Chairmans statement We made these improvements against Governance pro le a challenging economic backdrop.
Our number of independent nonConsumer con dence improved over executive directors is in line with the our financial year but overall increases in UK Corporate Governance Code incomes lagged in ation, meaning that Our Senior Independent nonconsumers did not feel the bene t in executive director is Jan du Plessis their discretionary spending.
We have clear separation of duties Our performance over the year was between Chairman and CEO roles mixed and, as a result, our underlying Performance evaluation of the Board pro ts before tax fell 3.9% to 623m.
and its Committees was undertaken during the year and is externally Our three-year programme of facilitated at least every three years exceptionally high capital expenditure due 2015 associated with our strategic priorities The Directors have all attended an is now completed.
We are working hard acceptable level of Board and to prepare our business for the future, Committee meetings while not forgetting the values that Robert Swannell The Directors all stand for re-election underscored our past.
Now we are Chairman annually focused on delivering the financial results Interim dividend paid on The composition of all Board from this investment.
10 January 2014 Committees complies with the Performance application recommendations of the We made progress in three areas this Code 6.2p year: Food, M&S.
Two members of the Audit Committee Our online business performed ahead have recent and relevant financial Final dividend to be paid on of the market and the new website, experience 11 July 2014 launched in February, was recognised We have a Policy for the award of as industry-leading: our food business non-audit work, which is disclosed on 10.8p is growing faster than the market and our website, and we have disclosed operational ef ciencies were achieved: the non-audit work undertaken Total dividend for 2013 14 and we saw growth in our International The tenure of our external auditor was business, with a strengthened presence over 10 years.
0p and signi cant growth in our priority new statutory auditor for 2014 15, markets.
However, our General subject to shareholder approval Merchandise performance did not meet We disclose our external auditor our own expectations.
The team is appointment policy working hard on a comprehensive plan Details on the internal audit function to address this.
Improvements in product are provided in this report quality and style were welcomed by our A signi cant part of our performanceThe retail industry is going through a customers and, together with operational related pay is delivered through shares period of profound change.
Many of the ef ciencies, now have to be delivered Our reward framework is simple and actions we set out as part of our strategy consistently to translate into the required transparent, designed to support and three years ago, and have since improvements in financial performance.
implemented, put M&S in a stronger position to compete in this new world.
Dividend Our dividend policy remains a international, multi-channel retailer In 2013 14, we delivered major progressive one, with dividends broadly remains unchanged.
Whilst the Board infrastructure projects that strengthened twice covered by earnings.
In line with continues to discuss each element of the our business.
com this policy, we remain committed to strategy, the focus is on execution.
With website and our new distribution centre delivering consistent returns to our demonstrable progress in our Food at Castle Donington are both essential shareholders.
We intend to pay a final and International business, and clear in our strategy to transform M&S from dividend of 10.8p this year, taking the advances in our infrastructure, the a traditional British retailer into an total dividend to 17p, unchanged from attention has been particularly focused international, multi-channel retailer.
on the progress in executing the key We have repositioned our website as our steps to improve our General The Boards priorities agship and its design has been centred Merchandise business performance.
In my first report as Chairman in 2011, on the needs of our customers.
Castle Iwrote that the Board focuses its work In relation to people and succession, Donington is one of the largest dedicated on three main areas: strategy and there have been a number of changes to e-commerce sites in the UK and is execution, people and succession, and the Board this year.
All of these have capable of processing over one million values.
been carefully managed to ensure products a day.
We are now working to effective succession plans were in place.
ensure these projects deliver at their full Our strategy to transform M&S from operating capability.
a traditional British retailer to an Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 3 retail branch networks, and I welcome our strategy, and employees are regularly Our governance principles her to the Board.
updated on our plans through a wide Leadership range of activities, including our Within our executive team, Steve Sharp, Your Board rigorously challenge each employee magazine and online news our long-standing Executive Director of other on strategy, performance, updates.
All employees have access Marketing, was succeeded in this role responsibility and accountability to to Yammer, an internal social network.
by Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne following ensure that the decisions we make are This year, our non-executive directors Patricks election to the Board at the of the highest quality.
increased their engagement with AGM last year.
Steve left M&S in Read more on page 40 colleagues in the business through our February 2014 with our thanks for the popular Employee Breakfasts and signi cant role he played in shaping the Effectiveness Non-Executive Lunches.
M&S brand over the last 10 years and for The Boards performance is scrutinised his help in introducing Patrick to the role.
in an annual effectiveness review.
This Looking ahead examines the progress we are making Our capital expenditure will fall in the Our heritage, values and Plan A against our plan, our collective and year ahead as we complete projects M&S has been trading for 130 years.
Our individual effectiveness, and the that accounted for exceptional success over that time stems in large independence of our non-executive capital expenditure as part of our part from our commitment to clear core directors.
values, including quality and trust.
Just Read more on page 40 as enduring values have fide ned our Our priority now is to deliver on the past, so they are crucial to our future.
In investment we have made and to make Risk management recent years public mistrust has spread M&S more pro table, as well as a All of our decisions are discussed through many areas of business and this stronger, well-equipped business.
There within the context of the risks involved.
stems from the absence of clear values.
is real potential for further pro table Effective risk management is central to This is not the case at M&S, where an growth, both in the UK and overseas.
us achieving our strategic objectives.
emphasis on integrity is at the heart of We have highlighted the opportunities for Read more on pages 15 and 44 the way we do business.
We expect to growth and performance improvements be held accountable by our customers, in each area of our business in this Engagement shareholders and other stakeholders in report and at our recent investor days: Maintaining strong relationships with this respect.
this applies in both our Food and our shareholders, both private and General Merchandise businesses, institutional, is crucial to achieving our Nothing demonstrates our commitment whether in store or online, in the UK aims.
We hold numerous events to our values more than Plan A, our or internationally.
throughout the year to maintain an programme to become the worlds most open dialogue with investors.
We have Finally, we are fortunate to have Read more on page 45 deliberately set the bar high for exceptionally talented and dedicated ourselves.
We strive for excellence in this employees.
I never cease to be eld and are candid when we dont impressed by their commitment to M&S In June 2013, Jeremy Darroch, a measure up.
Doing the right thing and their pride in what they do.
One of non-executive director and Chairman of makes economic as well as ethical and the great highlights of my year is meeting our Audit Committee, stepped down moral sense: a sustainable business is the many who have given 25 and 40 from the Board after six years.
Andy also a pro table business.
We have just years service.
There are some quite Halford, who joined us in January 2013, launched a new set of commitments that remarkable stories amongst them and has taken over as Chairman of that will refocus Plan A to ensure M&S is set they exemplify the spirit alive in the committee, as planned.
up to respond to the new models of company.
We thank every one of our As we announced last year, our longest sustainable change.
The commitments employees for their contribution through serving non-executive director Steven will also ensure that PlanAs values are a period of considerable change.
Holliday will leave the Board after the clearly communicated to customers.
AGM this July, having spent a decade Stakeholder engagement with us.
I would like to thank Steve for his We take time to inform our stakeholders outstanding contribution, and in about progress in the business and we particular for his role as Chairman of the have found this is particularly important Robert Swannell Remuneration Committee for the last at a time of major transformation.
Vindi Banga will replace have held 10 investor days on different Steve as Chair on his departure.
aspects of our business since August Ahead of Steves departure, Alison 2012.
All information shared at these Brittain was appointed as a nonevents is available to shareholders at executive director in January of this year.
As Group Director for the Retail Division We also have strong internal channels of of Lloyds Banking Group, Alison brings communication to keep employees strong financial and commercial informed.
Our annual internal Business experience, along with a wealth of Conference ensures both our retail and knowledge from running customer-facing head of ce leadership teams understand
