Chairmans Statement GOOD PROGRESS IN STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES We have also been able to take advantage of low interest rates to secure I am pleased to report a satisfactory outcome long-term finance for our new-build programme at attractive rates.
to raise sensible finance is helped by our freehold ownership of a substantial percentage of the pubs in our estate and that is something that I believe is Performance summary important to our shareholders, and to us operationally.
Some of our future The performance of our pubs and beer brands has been robust, and we have growth may, of necessity, be in leasehold sites but we will not compromise made good progress implementing our key strategic initiatives.
Although the our strong balance sheet.
underlying numbers for profit before taxation and earnings per share are lower than last year, this is a consequence of planned disposals and the fact Board changes that 2013 contained a 53rd trading week: the core business achieved good I am delighted to welcome Carolyn Bradley and Catherine Glickman to the growth from building new pub-restaurants.
Board and I am confident they will help us as we respond to a fast changing market.
Roz Cuschieri will be standing down from the Board after the Annual Strategy General Meeting after eight years and I thank her for her contribution to our Our strategy benefits from being clear and is capable of being achieved development in that time.
We consider acquisition opportunities carefully but we already have a sound plan: we are building 20-30 new pub restaurants Dividend each year, achieving high returns, and selling pubs which are no longer able to In summary, our performance has been good relative to our peer group, we are offer customers what they want.
Since 2009, we have built over 100 new well positioned for future growth and we are making sound progress against our pub-restaurants creating 5,000 jobs in the process and sold around 600 strategic objectives.
We are confident in our prospects and, as a consequence, are smaller wet-led pubs.
The business is changing and becoming more pleased to recommend an increase of 4.9% in the final dividend to 4.3 pence per responsive to our customers needs.
share, representing a full year dividend of 6.7 pence per share an increase of 5% on 2013.
Our ability to develop new ideas and implement them effectively is important to our future growth.
Marstons has a reputation for breaking new ground: the Finally, and most importantly, I thank our people for their commitment and new-build programme demonstrates our appetite for transforming our pub enthusiasm for Marstons, which is much in evidence in our pubs, our breweries estate: the franchise agreements we launched in 2009 have transformed our and support operations.
community pubs: and fastcask continues to contribute to the success of Marstons Beer Company.
This year we have formed a youth board in conjunction with The Sun newspaper to design The Pub of the Future.
We are optimistic that this forum will generate good ideas.
Market The market remains tough, although most economic indicators are showing steady signs of improvement.
That has not yet fed through to customers pockets and so value for money remains vitally important for many pubs in Roger Devlin our estate.
Nevertheless, we are seeing good opportunities for developing Chairman more premium offers, as the success of our Revere pubs, Pitcher & Piano bars and many of our leased pubs demonstrate.
Our broad market positioning is a strength.
2 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
