888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 01 Highlights Net Gaming Revenue for the year rose to US$271 million, an increase of 52% above 2004 Net Gaming Revenue from Casino during the year rose to US$161 million, an increase of 16% above 2004 Net Gaming Revenue from Poker during the year rose to US$110 million, an increase of 179% above 2004 Profit after tax for the year rose to US$65 million, an increase of 59% above 2004 Adjusted EPS for the year rose to 19.3, an increase of 58% above 2004 Net cash generated from operating activities rose to US$88 million, an increase of 72% above 2004 Financial Highlights Operational Highlights NET GAMING REVENUE US$million REGISTERED MEMBER ACCOUNTS AT YEAR END million 2005 271.0 2005 23.2 2004 177.9 2004 17.9 2003 122.5 2003 13.2 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 5 10 15 20 25 PROFIT AFTER TAX US$million REAL MONEY REGISTERED 2005 65.2 MEMBER ACCOUNTS million 2004 41.1 2005 5.5 2003 19.5 2004 3.7 0 20 40 60 80 2003 2.5 1 2 0 3 4 5 6 NET GAMING REVENUE US$million 77.2 Q405 ACTIVE CASINO MEMBERS 000 70.0 Q305 Q405 97.6 65.0 Q205 Q404 66.1 Q105 58.8 Q403 42.9 Q404 49.7 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 Q304 44.8 Q204 41.8 ACTIVE POKER MEMBERS 000 41.6 Q104 Q405 233.3 0 20 40 60 80 100 Q404 123.4 Q403 21.7 NET GAMING REVENUE: CASINO US$million 0 50 100 150 200 250 2005 161.2 2004 138.6 2003 114.5 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 NET GAMING REVENUE: POKER US$million 2005 109.8 2004 39.3 2003 8.0 0 40 80 120 160 Excluding share bene t charges 02 888 at a Glance 888 is one of the worlds most OPERATIONS: 888S OPERATIONAl ARm IN GIbRAlTAR IS RESPONSIblE fOR ThE dAy-TO-dAy popular online gaming entertainment RuNNING Of ThE GROuPS flAGShIP GAmING companies.
888 develops and bRANdS ANd PROducTS, INcludING mEmbER manages all significant aspects of its RElATIONShIP mANAGEmENT, PROmOTIONS, business in-house, including software lOyAlTy PROGRAmmES ANd RISk mANAGEmENT.
development, marketing, business development, back-office payment processing, risk management and member relationship management.
mARkETING: 888S mARkETING IS PRINcIPAlly PlANNEd, SOuRcEd ANd ExEcuTEd ThROuGh ITS IN-hOuSE mARkETING ARm whIch hAS AccumulATEd SIGNIfIcANT cREATIvE ANd mARkETING ExPERIENcE fOcuSING ON AchIEvING hIGh RETuRN ON ITS INvESTmENTdRIvEN cAmPAIGNS.
TEchNOlOGy: 888 dEvElOPS IN-hOuSE All Of ThE cORE TEchNOlOGy ASPEcTS Of ITS mulTI-PlAyER cASINO ANd POkER ROOm GAmING SOfTwARE.
PAymENT SOluTIONS: EffIcIENT ANd RElIAblE PROcESSING Of PAymENTS IS cRucIAl TO mEmbER AcquISITION ANd RETENTION.
888 OffERS ITS mEmbERS A wIdE RANGE Of ONlINE, REAl-TImE PAymENT OPTIONS.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 03 NET GAMING REVENUE BY 1 4 GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET 1.
REST OF THE WORLD: 8% 2 We have over 23 millioN regisTered member aCCouNTs WorldWide WiTh members sPaNNiNg 177 CouNTries.
CasiNo-oN-NeT is NoW offered To members arouNd The World iN 11 laNguages.
PaCifiC Poker is offered iN four laNguages.
888 has Nearly 900 eNThusiasTiC aNd TaleNTed emPloyees WorldWide.
1 oNliNe CasiNo aNd Poker room
04 Marketing Our marketing strategy is driven by AT ANy ONE TImE, ThERE hAvE bEEN huNdREdS Of Ad cAmPAIGNS IN 10 dIffERENT lANGuAGES, three key principles: SPANNING 30 dIffERENT cOuNTRIES, ExPOSING Relevant and motivating member OuR PROducTS TO ThE wIdEST POSSIblE proposition: consumer needs AudIENcE.
Understanding player behaviour informs our product development.
Localising our offer by both country and consumer segment is a key component of driving both trial and repeat usage of our products.
Quality of brand: one umbrella brand 888. com serves all our products.
This helps to maintain high awareness and ensure flexibility in targeted local communication by SPONSORING TElEvISEd SPORTING EvENTS, whilst guaranteeing global TEAmS ANd AThlETES, wE ARE STRENGThENING consistency in messages.
OuR dEAl wITh mIddlESbROuGh fOOTbAll club IS ONE Of whIch wE ARE Integrated marketing campaigns: a PARTIculARly PROud ANd IS NOw IN ITS consistent communication approach SEcONd yEAR.
with tailored activities leveraged through all channels.
For example, the sponsorship of the 888. com World Snooker Championship will feature traditional PR and advertising, as well as web-based and viral marketing activity online.
SOmE 15 NEw bANNERS ARE cREATEd ON A dAIly bASIS ANd AddEd TO A bANNER bANk NumbERING mORE ThAN 20,000.
IN 2005 OuR TOTAl mARkETING SPENd ExcEEdEd US$100 mIllION AcROSS OuR vARIOuS mARkETING chANNElS ONlINE mEdIA, AffIlIATES, OfflINE ANd OThER mARkETING ANd PROmOTIONAl INITIATIvES.
06 Technology Having the expertise to develop all 888 hAS APPROAchEd ThE GAmING INduSTRy AS AN INfORmATION TEchNOlOGy cOmPANy RAThER significant aspects of gaming software ThAN AS A bOOkmAkER ThAT IS mOvING ONlINE.
in-house allows us to control and provide a flexible, secure and userfriendly platform for members.
Our information technology platform not only handles over one million site visitors a day with more than 10,000 members playing concurrently at peak times, but it also enables 888 to provide a distinctive product and brand feel.
The front-end playing experience is key, but robust back-office systems, such as payment processing, risk 888S RESIlIENT, ScAlAblE ANd dIvERSIfIEd management and data mining, are INfORmATION TEchNOlOGy INfRASTRucTuRE also vital.
cOmPRISES huNdREdS Of SERvERS SuPPORTING NumEROuS wEb SySTEmS, PROPRIETARy GAmING PlATfORmS ANd bAck-OffIcE SySTEmS.
888S STRONG INfORmATION TEchNOlOGy PlATfORm IS bEING dEvElOPEd TO INcREASE ThE EffIcIENcy wITh whIch 888 INTEGRATES NEw GAmES, ENAblING IT TO ExPANd ORGANIcAlly ANd TO INcREASE ThE ScAlAbIlITy Of ITS OPERATION.
EffIcIENT ANd cOST-EffEcTIvE PAymENT PROcESSING hAS bEcOmE ESSENTIAl fOR SuccESS IN ThE ONlINE GAmING mARkET.
08 People 888 has nearly 900 enthusiastic and ThE GREATEST ASSET 888 hAS IS ITS PEOPlE.
ThE TAlENTEd TEAm bASEd AROuNd ThE wORld talented individuals.
Our member cREATE, dESIGN, mANufAcTuRE ANd dElIvER support team is both multiskilled and OuR SySTEmS.
multicultural enabling us to provide continuous support in 11 different languages, 24 7.
By taking our recruitment to the source through a variety of global Open Days, we enhance the quality of our service through the deployment of people who truly understand the local culture they are serving.
In all our training and development strategies and initiatives the primary focus is on maintaining excellent member service.
The member is at the centre of all OuR SAlES ANd mARkETING GROuPS hAvE our activities.
SuccEEdEd IN chAllENGING mARkETS wITh At 888 we believe that successful wIdE-RANGING cAmPAIGNS GOING lIvE EAch business progression comes from an dAy ANd mARkET lEAdING SPONSORShIP inclusive perspective.
We therefore dEAlS REcORdING ExcEllENT RESulTS.
strive to ensure that the feelings and ideas of all employees are heard, discussed and, where appropriate, acted upon.
2006 will see the launch of the 888 Certification Scheme, an initiative that develops all employees regardless of level covering a range of disciplines unique to our brand.
Through this initiative we fully expect to develop and motivate our dedicated employees even further.
wE PROvIdE 24 7 cONTINuOuS mEmbER SuPPORT IN 11 lANGuAGES fOR cASINO-ON-NET ANd fOuR lANGuAGES fOR PAcIfIc POkER ThROuGhOuT ThE wORld, wITh TOll-fREE NumbERS AvAIlAblE IN 25 cOuNTRIES.
ThESE PEOPlE, ANd huNdREdS mORE lIkE ThEm, ARE ThE mAIN REASON why 888 IS TRuly A wORld lEAdER IN ThE ONlINE GAmING INduSTRy.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 09 relaTioNshiPs based oN TrusT
10 Chairmans Statement our sTreNgThs A proven, resilient business model Experienced Directors and long serving senior management who are industry pioneers Fully integrated proprietary operating software infrastructure Scalable technology platform Industry leading in-house marketing capabilities Industry leading member relationship management Richard Kilsby, Chairman Sophisticated, effective payment processing and risk 888 is Well PlaCed To beNefiT from management systems exPaNsioN iNTo NeW geograPhiC markeTs as iNTerNeT PeNeTraTioN CoNTiNues aPaCe The Board of 888 Holdings Public developed our positions in both Limited Company is pleased to Casino and Poker by building on present its first set of full year our key strengths of an industry results since the Companys leading brand, a highly diversified flotation in October 2005 a major gaming offering and a widening step forward and the successful geographic footprint.
result of a long-term growth plan for the business.
In the year to 31 December 2005 we achieved total Net Gaming These results demonstrate the Revenue of US$271 million and strength and growth potential of our underlying Profit after tax excluding business which is, today, one of the share benefit charges of US$65 worlds most popular online gaming million.
Continuing to build profitable entertainment companies.
During sustainable topline momentum is the year we continued to improve key to our long-term success.
We 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 developed a series of self-regulatory global online gaming industry, providing Our strategy is clear.
We aim to guidelines for the online gaming our members with a comprehensive create sustainable shareholder industry.
As online gaming develops selection of uniquely-created gaming into a mainstream leisure activity we activities and offering a secure, trusted value by becoming the market believe further clarification of the entertainment experience.
leader in the global online regulatory position in relation to online gaming industry, providing our gaming would be a positive driver I am pleased to report that we have members with a comprehensive for growth by enhancing consumer already begun the new financial year selection of uniquely-created confidence and trust in the sector.
2006 will see continued investment in the 888 gaming activities.
board brand through worldwide innovative I am pleased to have the opportunity to marketing initiatives, such as the By the end of the year we had more chair 888 and to welcome to the Board recently announced five year than 23 million registered member three new Non-executive Directors: sponsorship of the World Snooker accounts and over 330,000 active since August 2005, Michael Championship, which will be known members, representing 177 different Constantine, a former Inspector and as the 888. com World Snooker countries and supported 11 different Acting Commissioner of the Gibraltar Championship.
languages for our Casino-on-Net Financial Services Commission and offering a real testament to the Brian Mattingley, former Executive 888 is well placed to benefit from strength and global appeal of our brand.
Director of Gala Group Plc: and from expansion into new geographic March 2006 Amos Pickel, Chief markets as Internet penetration The significant achievements of this Executive of Red Sea Hotels Ltd. continues apace and we react to local year would not have been possible regulatory developments.
We will also without the support, contribution and With their outstanding complementary look to extend the range of products dedication of our staff whose passion, experience, I am confident that our so that we can offer members the knowledge and enthusiasm gives us a new Non-executive Directors are complete online entertainment further competitive advantage in this superbly qualified to provide invaluable experience.
All of this gives me great fast moving market.
support to our executive team in the confidence about our future prospects.
The online gaming market is maturing and, whilst online regulation is still in its The Boards commitment to the infancy, we welcome the UKs entry into highest standards of corporate the online space through the Gambling governance and corporate social Act 2005.
Of note is the Gibraltar responsibility is detailed in the Gambling Ordinance which introduces a Corporate Governance section of bespoke regulatory regime in Gibraltar this report on pages 24 to 28.
Richard Kilsby for remote gaming and further Chairman consolidates Gibraltars position as a Finally, on behalf of the Board, I first-class online gaming jurisdiction.
would like to express the Groups appreciation to Marie Stevens for Generally, we are seeing a change her contribution.
in emphasis of regulators, who are looking beyond the grant of licences dividend and are focusing more on compliance The Board intends to implement, in and codes of conduct within the 2006, the dividend policy set out in industry.
This is an area where 888 the Financial Review on page 19. has sought to take the lead.
We were one of the founding members outlook of eCOGRA e-Commerce Online Our strategy is clear.
We aim to create Gaming Regulation and Assurance, sustainable shareholder value by an independent body which has becoming the market leader in the
12 Chief Executives Review our sTraTegy Investment in and leverage of the 888 brand Expansion into new geographic markets Development and expansion of software platforms to provide a one stop shop through organic growth and selective acquisitions Leveraging 888s large member database to maximise cross-selling and up-selling opportunities Continued development of efficient payment processing John Anderson, Chief Executive Officer options that suit new target markets and audiences The TWo mosT imPorTaNT Words iN our iNdusTry, TrusT me 888 is an industry-leading brand where consolidation is inevitable which is synonymous with quality, and I intend that 888 will be at fairness and trust.
As a business the heart of this.
Our industry it has delivered a number of has arrived and will be here on consecutive years of growth in a permanent basis.
2005 was no exception, and we are delighted to report Profit The business is in great shape, after tax for the year excluding and the year to 31 December 2005 share benefit charges of US$65 saw us achieve record Net Gaming million, up 59% on 2004, a more Revenue and Profits.
New member than satisfactory increase.
registrations in both Casino and Poker were significantly up at Our flotation in October on the 5.3 million.
London Stock Exchange marked an important step in our goal to The main driver behind our become the market leader in the outstanding growth has been our global online gaming entertainment in-depth knowledge and experience industry.
This will enable us to of the industry built up since our increase further our brand profile, inception in 1997.
We understand recognition and credibility and what our members want and we are will also give us an acquisition continually upgrading our product currency.
This is a key part of offering to retain existing and our strategy and we believe the attract new players.
Most industry has matured to a stage importantly, we continue to provide 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13 No business should have an overreliance on any one particular market and those in our industry are no exception.
We dont believe in having all our eggs in the one basket and I personally consider our geographic mix of business to be the widest in the industry.
members with a secure and trusted sponsorships.
We will be repeating experience to enhance their playing environment in which to play.
In the this strategy of awareness throughout environment.
We also plan to add an interests of consumer protection, we mainland Europe in the coming year.
additional language to our Casino in were a founding member of eCOGRA, the first quarter of 2006. the pre-eminent industry benchmark our Product offering and I am a member of its board.
During the year we have succeeded in The online poker market has growing Net Gaming Revenue and new experienced remarkable growth since Whilst member acquisition is key, player sign-ups across all our categories.
2002 and I have no doubt it is fast member retention is paramount.
becoming a mainstream entertainment As well as the products we offer, we In 2004 the total amount wagered in activity.
Poker has always been played have invested in the highest quality the online casino market was estimated in the USA and in fact is part of the infrastructure and systems to ensure at US$53.9 billion source: CCA.
People of all ages, that we sustain our members interest including families, have always played and do not give them a reason to play Since its inception in 1997 our Casino Poker as part of their recreational anywhere else.
We will continue to add product, Casino-on-Net, has continued time.
More and more countries new entertainment options through to be the leading online casino brand throughout the globe are playing the selective acquisition or in-house with member numbers now at a level game and this is resulting in a decline development and we will expand of 4 million real money registered in the dominance of the USA market.
our software platforms to allow for member accounts.
Poker is cool and here to stay.
2005 saw continued growth in Net Our Poker product, Pacific Poker, was geographic spread Gaming Revenue from US$178 million ranked four in 2005 and in the year, No business should have an overto US$271 million, an increase of 52%.
Net Gaming Revenue from our Poker reliance on any one particular market This is mainly attributable to the business exhibited strong growth, and those in our industry are no expansion of our online and offline increasing by 179% to US$109.8 exception.
We dont believe in having marketing programmes and the million 2004: US$39.3 million.
This all our eggs in the one basket and I introduction of new distribution channels result partly reflects an increase in personally consider our geographic mix through our affiliate programmes.
888s marketing efforts but is also a of business to be the widest in the by-product of the exponential growth of industry.
By making our product We also operate an additional Casino the phenomenon that is online poker.
available in up to 11 languages we brand, Reef Club Casino, that we have grown our non-USA business introduced in 2002.
By offering We are continually upgrading our at such a rate so as to reduce our members another Casino brand we proprietary products and have recently dependence on the USA, to 55% optimise their choice which in turn upgraded our Poker offering with a multiof our business without sacrificing underpins our member retention by language format.
It is now operational in volume.
Our second largest revenue keeping players on our sites.
English, German, Italian and Swedish.
stream comes from the UK market, We introduced a new e-wallet focusing representing 20% of our mix.
In the In January 2006, 888 launched an on Spain, Germany, Netherlands, Italy UK, 888 has come from nowhere in entirely new Casino product with a new and France, thereby expanding further 2003 to become the top brand in the graphical user interface, new industry our geographical presence in non-USA industry in 2005.
This success is leading video-slot machines and markets.
888 plans to roll-out a further mainly due to the highly successful promotion features to provide two new languages and a new Jackpot offline advertising campaigns we ran our members with an even more feature for Pacific Poker in the first in the UK and high profile selected sophisticated visual and interactive quarter of 2006.
14 Chief Executives Review Betmate, our betting exchange, is a basis all jurisdictions to ensure white label product in conjunction we understand local regulatory with Betdaq, the second largest positions and are alerted early to betting exchange in the UK.
It has any potential developments.
The been in operation since 2004 and world has still to get to grips with acts as a member retention tool this industry and the laws which do by complementing our Casino exist can change very rapidly.
It offers access to a what we must do as an industry is to betting exchange for non-USA lobby all of the countries of the world members only.
It has performed so that legalisation and licensing of satisfactorily over the period.
Internet gaming becomes the norm rather than the exception.
In order for us to give our members a one stop shopping experience innovative marketing approach we need to offer them a The 888 brand is a core aspect sportsbook.
We are currently of our marketing strategy and is examining our options to achieve key to building and maintaining this.
We will not take sports bets our business.
Strong branding is from US citizens, however we will not only critical in differentiating take bets on American sports our business but a recognisable events from non-US citizens.
brand builds trust which is a key consideration affecting a regulatory developments consumers choice of provider.
Whilst the application of existing laws to online gaming is still to be Our marketing strategy includes both clarified in most jurisdictions, in online advertising, such as search April 2005 the UK Government engine optimisation and offline passed the Gambling Act, which activities.
This includes mass media includes the licensing of online advertising, direct mail, sports gaming.
I believe the UKs position marketing and sponsorship, such as is the first domino in what will that of Middlesbrough Football Club become a legislative network where our shirt sponsorship deal throughout mainland Europe.
Recently we also signed up to be the sponsor We continue to monitor the of the iconic World Snooker legislative position in the USA, Championship.
The event is held where many attempts have been at the Crucible in Sheffield, UK and made in the past to prevent the is the most important event in the instruments for the financial snooker calendar.
Our sponsorship payment of internet gaming to take not only catapults us into emerging place.
It is our view that this will markets such as China and the Far continue to be our main challenge.
East, where snooker has a huge We also monitor on a continual following, but our brand will be fully 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15 Payment systems future Prospects There is no doubt that this is an Payment systems are the lifeblood of I have no doubt that this industry industry which is here to stay and our industry.
The number of options we is here to stay and the market will use has increased from four in 2000 continue to grow in line with increasing the market will continue to grow to 22 in 2005.
We must continually Internet penetration throughout the in line with increasing Internet upgrade and seek new systems in order world.
As stated at flotation, our goal penetration.
to give all of our members in different is to become market leader and offer markets local methods enabling them a one stop shop online leisure exposed for hundreds of hours in the to pay and play seamlessly.
This expansion will be UK and Europe.
We consider the deal achieved both organically and through to be a major step in continuing to I cannot emphasise enough the selective acquisition.
spread global awareness of the 888 importance of making available a brand.
As part of this 888 will also be wide variety of payment methods to Our 2005 results confirm we are an associate sponsor of the Masters, support members in different locations heading in the right direction to Grand Prix and UK Championship and with different needs.
We are confident that the snooker events.
shatters the myth that barriers to continued focus on our strategic goals, entry to our industry are low.
The fact through a systematic and evidencemember relationship management is that barriers to successful entry are based approach, will provide the 888 has a first class reputation for extremely high.
opportunities to deliver further positive its member relationship management.
Our member support is as international back-office support as our member base and we currently Our proprietary back-office systems The, albeit early, trends in 2006 provide support in up to 11 languages, are state of the art and form an confirm our confidence in the future.
Our call centres offer excellent base to keep our members This year we will expand into more interactive services and support tollsatisfied.
We spend a lot of money countries with better products and free free-phone numbers, email and to attract new members and it is vital we will continue to pursue excellence web-chat platforms as well as online we create a service environment that in every facet of our business.
Our staff are all highly keeps them.
trained and undergo an ongoing training programme to ensure we remain at the People cutting edge of service excellence.
Our people are totally dedicated and include many of the pioneers of the We have consistently focused on industry.
They are not only good at maintaining and enhancing our what they do and have a tremendous member support services and have track record but are focused on the John Anderson developed a valuable proprietary future success of the Group.
I would Chief Executive Officer member database of over 23 million like to add my personal thanks to each registered members.
We believe there one of our employees worldwide for is significant opportunity in both the what they have achieved in 2005. cross-selling and up-selling of this Our success is their success.
database to maximise member retention and lifetime value.
16 Financial Review highlighTs 2005 was a record year for 888 characterised by strong growth, record profits and cash generation coupled with accelerated geographic diversification, all achieved during a busy IPO year 888 finished 2005 with a 250 strong balance sheet and a original 225 positive cash position 200 Net Gaming Revenue during 175 the year rose to US$271.0 150 million, an increase of 52% 125 above 2004 100 Profit before tax and share Aviad Kobrine, Chief Financial Officer benefit charges during the year rose to US$67.4 million, an increase of 56% above 2004 5.3 millioN NeW regisTered Net cash generated from member aCCouNTs Were oPeNed operating activities rose to of WhiCh 1.8 millioN Were real US$88.3 million, an increase of 72% above 2004 moNey member aCCouNTs 888 SHARE PRICE a year of Transformation, the Company was admitted to 250 growth and diversification the FTSE 250 Index and as at Flotation on the London 30 December 2005 the last 225 Stock Exchange trading day of the year the 200 2005 saw the transformation of closing share price was 1.94.
888 from private to public company 175 and, on 4 October 2005, Ordinary Growth 150 Shares of the Company were The year was characterised by 125 admitted to the main list of the record growth with Net Gaming London Stock Exchange at an offer Revenue reaching US$271.0 million 100 price of 1.75, representing a 2004: US$177.9 million, a 52% market capitalisation of 590 increase over 2004 and Profit after million.
NON-USA: 45% GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION, THE UK, NET GAMING REVENUE 20022005 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION, 1.
UK: 44% 2005 101 148 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION, NET GAMING GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION, 3 2.
EUROPE: 38% 22 NET GAMING REVENUE 2003-2005 GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTATION, NET REVENUE 20032005 US$million G 1.
AMERICAS: 10% GAMING REVENUE NON-USA 2005 GAMING REVENUE NON-USA 2005 2.
REST OF THE WORLD: 8% 13 64 2 2004 62 62 45 2004 2003 64 13 13 13 2 45 2003 2 0 40 64 80 120 160 64 13 USA Europe Rest of the World 45 45 2003 2003 0 40 80 120 160 13 USA 13 Europe Rest of the World 0 40 80 120 160 0 40 80 120 160 opened 2004: 4.7 million of which recruited the majority of first-time USA Europe Rest of the World USA Europe Rest of the World The rake from ring games plus 1.8 million were real money member depositors from outside the USA.
net tournament fees for Poker accounts compared to 2004 at Members from 177 countries played on 1.2 million.
As at 31 December 2005 888s sites with 55% of Net Gaming grew rapidly during 2005 the Group had 23.2 million registered Revenue derived from the USA, 20% achieving a rake in December member accounts 2004: 18 million from the UK, 17% from the rest of 2005 that was 108% higher including 5.5 million real money Europe and 8% from other countries.
than in December 2004. member accounts 2004: 3.7 million.
Whilst growth of Net Gaming Revenue in the USA market achieved 44% over charges reaching US$65.2 million During the final quarter of the year 2004 levels, the rest of the world far 2004: US$41.1 million, a 59% the Group recorded 330,962 active exceeded this growth rate at 64%.
This growth members representing a 75% increase accelerated during the second half of over the same period in 2004.
An Casino the year with Net Gaming Revenue and active member is a member who Net Gaming Revenue for Casino Profit after tax, excluding share benefit has made a game-related balance increased by 16% to US$161.2 million charges increasing in comparison movement in a real money account.
2004: US$138.6 million and active to the first half of the year by 19% Casino members increased by 48% to and 66%, respectively.
The Groups quarterly Net The Group continued its geographic Gaming Revenue per active member Member Accounts diversification in 2005 and further indicator tends to fluctuate over time The Group further increased its diluted concentration of Net Gaming as a result of various promotion and member base in 2005.
5.3 million Revenue from the USA to 55% 2004: data mining activities.
Some of these new registered member accounts were 58%.
Further, in 2005 the Group campaigns are targeted at dormant 18 Financial Review members or members at the later in December 2005 that was 108% stages of their spend profile who higher than in December 2004. tend to spend less than newly recruited members.
Due to such expenses promotion activities quarterly Net Operating Expenses Gaming Revenue per active Casino Operating expenses for 2005 were member in the final quarter of 2005 US$73.0 million representing 27% of was US$419.
Net Gaming Revenue, a reduction compared to 2004 28%.
2.9 million new registered Casino member accounts were opened Research and Development 2004: 3.2 million of which 0.9 An increase of 65% in research and million were real money member development expenditure in 2005 accounts compared to 2004 at from US$6.9 million to US$11.3 0.7 million.
As at 31 December million further demonstrates the 2005 the Group had 18.9 million Groups continued commitment to registered Casino member accounts invest in technology.
This continues 2004: 16 million including 4.1 to enhance the offering of innovative million real money member Casino gaming products to members.
Selling and Marketing Poker During the year the Group continued Net Gaming Revenue for Poker rose its long term strategy of investment dramatically by 179% to US$109.8 in its global brand, 888, which is million 2004: US$39.3 million.
not language dependent, by utilising Active Poker members increased by a wide variety of marketing channels 89% to 233,301.
In the final quarter to attract new members to its web of 2005 quarterly Net Gaming sites.
These include online media, Revenue per active member was affiliates and offline campaigns, as US$156.
well as other innovative promotion and marketing activities.
Selling and 2.3 million new registered Poker Marketing costs were US$100.0 member accounts were opened million 2004: US$64.5 million 2004: 1.5 million of which 0.9 whilst cost per acquisition, million were real money member excluding members recruited by accounts compared to 0.5 million in affiliates on a revenue share basis, 2004.
As at 31 December 2005 remained competitive in 2005 at the Group had 4.3 million US$183 2004: US$192.
registered Poker member accounts 2004: 2.0 million including 1.5 Administration million real money Poker member Administrative costs, excluding share accounts 2004: 0.6 million.
benefit charges, were US$20.1 The rake from ring games plus net million 2004: US$13.6 million tournament fees for Poker grew representing a slight reduction to 7% rapidly during 2005 achieving a rake of Net Gaming Revenue 2004: 8%.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19 Investment in Human Capital Israel.
As a result the tax charge in million representing 132% of As at year end the Group had 886 2005 was unchanged on the prior year Operating Profit for the year before employees 2004: 689 at the at approximately US$2 million.
Cash generated following locations: Gibraltar 391: after tax excluding share benefit has been used mainly for dividends Israel 369: Antigua 115: and charges was 59% higher at US$65.2 declared and partly paid prior to London 11.
As part of its strategic million 2004: US$41.1 million.
flotation of US$63.1 million 2004: investment in human capital, at the US$26.1 million.
Cash increased for time of flotation of the Company on earnings per share the year by US$21.9 million 2004: the London Stock Exchange, eligible Basic earnings per share excluding US$10.7 million resulting in a cash management and employees received share benefit charges was 19.3 being position at year end of US$62.2 share awards including share options a 58% increase over 2004.
under the 888 All-Employee Share earnings per share excluding share The Group has no debt.
In addition, the Principal benefit charges was 19.3 being a Shareholder Trusts made a one-time 58% increase over 2004.
Basic accounting standards grant of immediately vested shares earnings per share was 14.2.
The Groups gaming products are to management and employees, all denominated in US dollars and details of which are set out in the dividends accordingly, the Groups functional Remuneration Report on page 31.
During the year dividends paid totalled and reporting currency is the The grants had no cash impact on US$63.1 million 2004: US$26.1 US dollar.
The 2005 financial the Group, but under the applicable million.
The Group has adopted a statements are prepared in accounting standard IFRS 2 this dividend policy whereby it intends to accordance with International results in a charge in respect of share pay dividends to holders of Ordinary Financial Reporting Standards.
benefit against income calculated Shares and Depositary Interests on a phased basis as set out in the representing 50% of annual profits in summary and outlook accounting policies on page 42.
Approximately one third of 2005 saw the transformation of 888 two grants resulted in a charge to the the amount for the year will be declared into a public company characterised by Consolidated Income Statement of as an interim dividend.
The first strong growth, profitability and cash US$2.1 million and US$15.1 million, dividend is expected to be declared in generation.
Within the 2005 Annual relation to the results of the Group for strength, continued investment in the Report and Accounts these are the first six months of 2006 on the brand and technological innovation collectively referred to as the share basis as set out in the Prospectus.
comprise the robust foundation benefit charges.
required to achieve our goals.
Cash flows and balance sheet Tax and Profit In accordance with the Groups Operating Profit before share benefit practice, members are required to charges for the year was 56% higher deposit funds into their accounts prior at US$66.7 million 2004: US$42.8 to participating in any real money million with Operating Profit margin activity.
As a matter of policy the before share benefit charges having Group keeps sufficient liquid resources increased to 25% 2004: 24%.
In 2005 in US dollars to meet the possible Aviad Kobrine the Group continued to benefit from a withdrawal of all member balances Chief Financial Officer low effective tax rate as a result of at any time.
The Group is highly cash its exempt status in both Gibraltar generative with net cash generated and Antigua, and a transfer pricing from operating activities in 2005 of agreement with the tax authorities in US$88.3 million 2004: US$51.4
20 Board of Directors 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21 1996 to 2000.
He is also a board and was previously Chief Executive of member of IGC and eCOGRA.
He held Gala Regional Developments Limited a number of senior executive positions until 2005.
From 1997 to 2003 he was within Ladbrokes plc and from 1990 Group Finance and Strategy Director of to 1996 he served as an Executive Gala Group Plc, prior to which he was Director.
Chief Executive of Ritz Bingo Limited.
He has held senior executive positions 3 aviad kobrine within Kingfisher Plc and Dee Chief Financial Officer Corporation Plc.
Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial Officer of the Company since June 6 michael Constantine 2005 and was appointed to the Board Independent Non-executive Director in August 2005.
From October 2004 Michael Constantine was appointed he was a consultant to 888. in August 2005.
He is a chartered 1 richard kilsby Previously, he was a banker with the accountant and a member of the Non-executive Chairman Media Telecoms Investment Banking Compliance Institute.
From 1996 to Richard Kilsby has been Chairman Group of Lehman Brothers and prior 1998 he was Deputy Superintendent of since March 2006 having previously to that, he was a senior associate the Turks and Caicos Islands Financial been Deputy Chairman of the Company with Slaughter and May.
He holds a Services Commission and in 1995 he from August 2005.
He is currently a Masters in Finance from the London was head of the Financial Supervision director of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
Business School Distinction, a BA in Unit of the Mauritius Offshore Business Since 2001 he has held several board Economics and an LLB from Tel Aviv Activities Authority.
From 1991 to 1995 and management positions in various University.
Age 42. he was an Inspector at the Gibraltar private and venture-capital funded Financial Services Commission, latterly companies.
In 2004, he acted as 4 shay ben-yitzhak Acting Commissioner.
Prior to this he independent monitor for the SEC and Chief Technical Officer was a Partner of Spain Brothers & USA Department of Justice.
From 1999 Shay Ben-Yitzhak is one of 888s Company and served in the Royal Naval to 2002, he was Chief Executive of founders and has been the Chief Reserve reaching the rank of Tradepoint and subsequently Executive Technical Officer of the Company and Commander.
Vice Chairman of virt-x plc.
From 1995 in charge of research and development to 1998 he was an Executive Director since the establishment of its research 7 amos Pickel of the London Stock Exchange prior and development centre in Tel Aviv in Independent Non-executive Director to which he was a Managing Director 1998.
Previously he was a software Amos Pickel was appointed in March for Bankers Trust from 1992 to 1995. engineer for Tower Semi Conductor 2006.
He is currently Chief Executive He was also Vice Chairman of Limited and CIBAM Technologies Officer and member of the Board Charterhouse Bank from 1988 to 1992 Limited.
He holds a BSc in computer of Directors of Red Sea Hotels Ltd. and a partner of Pricewaterhouse from science from Technion the Israel Formerly a Non-executive Director 1984 to 1988.
Age 37. of Gresham Hotel Group Plc, he is a solicitor holding a Masters in Law from 2 John anderson 5 brian mattingley New York University and a BA in Law Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior from Tel Aviv University.
John Anderson has been the Chief Independent Non-executive Director Executive Officer of the Company since Brian Mattingley has been Deputy September 2000.
He is currently Chairman since March 2006 having Committee Memberships Audit Non-executive Chairman of Burford been appointed to the Board in August Nomination Holdings plc and was Chief Executive 2005.
He is currently Non-executive Remuneration Officer of Burford Holdings plc from Chairman of the Academy Music Group Regulatory and Compliance
22 Responsible Gaming As a pioneer in the online gaming industry 888 has sought our member support staff proactively monitor members to take the lead in setting the industry standards for activity, such as total spend, time, length and frequency selfregulation and is fully committed to responsible gaming.
of playing sessions, in order to identify potential problem gamblers: Gaming is a form of entertainment enjoyed by many in cases where members are confirmed as having a people and it is 888s aim to provide members with a gaming problem or financial difficulties their accounts comprehensive selection of gaming activities in a secure, are immediately blocked and can only be opened again trustworthy environment.
after a suspension period and after ascertaining that the financial or other problems have been resolved: and Self-Regulation our member support team is trained in all the above 888 was a founding member of eCOGRA eCommerce Online issues to be able to identify and deal with such problems Gaming Regulation and Assurance, an independent body at the earliest practicable stage.
that has developed a series of selfregulatory guidelines.
888s Casinos have adopted the recommendations and Underage Gaming procedures laid down by eCOGRA.
Compliance with these 888 takes underage gaming extremely seriously, acting recommendations and procedures is subject to independent quickly to close an account and return monies whenever a review.
This review bolsters and supplements the internal complaint or suspicion is raised regarding a members age.
control procedures in place at 888 in order to ensure that objectives of player protection, fair gaming and responsible 888 is involved in continuous dialogue with payment conduct are met.
888 was awarded a seal of approval by processors, the industry and industry regulatory bodies, eCOGRA for its casinos following a due diligence audit such as eCOGRA, to establish and implement the best process by an independent committee of the board possible solutions to prevent underage gaming.
In the UK, where some debit cards are issued to minors, 888 is a founding member of the Gibraltar Betting and we have developed specific systems to deal with underage Gaming Association which has been set up to represent gaming.
888 has created its own tools for identifying the gaming industry in Gibraltar.
possible underage gaming by SOLO, Switch and Visa Electron card holders.
888 is also an active participant in the Interactive Gaming Council IGC an online gaming trade association, which Additionally, 888 has recently installed the stateoftheart was founded to establish, promote and enforce a uniform URU You Are You system, a new eauthentication scheme code of conduct across the entire online gaming industry for age and identity verification launched by British Telecom and has adopted the IGCs Code of Conduct.
and a data management software provider, GB Group.
URU does not require members to create an online identity by Problem Gaming providing personal details to the service, which then To promote responsible gaming 888 has a number of authenticates them but instead uses existing information technological and policy measures in place to identify to verify an individuals identity.
The system can confirm an irregular playing patterns.
Systems exist to identify individuals identity in seconds by checking a number of behaviour patterns that may indicate problem gaming, public and private databases.
including the following: all our sites have clear and visible links to assist 888 strives to take the lead in evolving best practice, with gaming problems Gamblers Anonymous and developing new systems and keeping its policies and Helping Hand : procedures under continuous review.
there are progressive limits on deposits, as well as table limits, that are in place to prevent members from spending large amounts of money over a short period of time:
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23 Regulatory and Compliance Review The regulatory framework of online gaming in different In Italy, authorities have recently ordered local Internet countries around the world remains as dynamic and rapidly Service Providers to prohibit access by Italian users to evolving as ever.
While some jurisdictions have moved to foreign gaming sites.
The Board is carefully monitoring this curtail the activities of online gaming sites, others are development and, together with others in the online gaming currently contemplating liberalisation and regulation of the industry, is weighing up its potential responses, especially industry.
The Board note that there are significant risks, in light of the fact that this legislation is perceived to be in unique to the online gaming industry, including in the USA contravention of European law.
where members of 888 generated 55% of our Net Gaming Revenue in 2005.
The Board remains committed to In Israel, law enforcement authorities have raided the monitoring closely and addressing regulatory changes as offices of several Internet portals and arrested several they occur, and to fostering, so far as possible, the trend individuals on the suspicion that they had advertised online towards liberalisation and regulation of online gaming gaming sites in Israel, in contravention of the Israeli Penal throughout the world.
888 does not allow Israelis to wager on its websites and has systems to prevent them doing so.
888 is licensed and regulated in Gibraltar.
In December 2005, the Government of Gibraltar enacted a new Gambling However, 888 has been advised that since it does not Ordinance.
The Ordinance introduces a tailormade regime facilitate, offer or provide gaming activities prohibited under for the regulation of remote gaming.
888 has actively the Penal Law to Israeli residents, the Penal Law will not be supported the introduction of such legislation and the Board applicable to 888 since no offence is committed wholly or in looks forward to full implementation in the coming months, part within Israeli territory.
which will include the appointment of a new regulator.
The Board continues to monitor these developments closely In the USA, several members of Congress have proposed and is alert to changes as they may occur in areas where various Bills aimed at prohibiting online gaming in the USA the Group operates.
or financial transactions with online gaming sites.
These Bills are currently in their preliminary legislative stages and the Board will continue to monitor their progress closely.
24 Corporate Governance 888 is listed on the London Stock Exchange, but it is not Non-executive review and performance appraisal technically subject to the UK Combined Code on Corporate The Chairman plans to hold meetings at least one per year Governance issued in July 2003 the Code because it is with the Nonexecutive Directors without the Executive a Gibraltar registered company.
The Directors support the Directors being present.
Led by the Senior Independent high standards of Corporate Governance set out in the Director, the Nonexecutive Directors also plan to meet Code and will apply the principles as far as practicable for without the Chairman present at least once a year to a company based outside the UK.
This statement sets out appraise the performance of the Chairman.
In the period how the Board has applied the principles set out in Section from flotation to 31 December 2005, no such meetings 1 of the Code, from the date of the Companys flotation on were held.
The Directors have wide ranging business 4 October 2005. experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
The Board The Directors consider it essential that the Company should The Board considers that Brian Mattingley, Michael be both led and controlled by an effective Board.
Constantine and Amos Pickel satisfy the criteria of the Code to act as Independent Nonexecutive Directors.
The Board Composition is satisfied that, at flotation, the former Chairman met the The Board consists of three Independent Nonexecutive independence criteria of the Code, as did Richard Kilsby Directors, a Nonexecutive Chairman, and three Executive upon his appointment as Chairman.
The Chairman is not Directors, comprising Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial considered as independent for the purposes of assessing Officer and Chief Technical Officer.
The biographical details the balance of the Board pursuant to the Code.
of all the Directors are given on page 21.
Brian Mattingley was appointed Deputy Chairman and Strategic approach Senior Independent Director on 9 March 2006.
The Board focuses upon the Groups longterm objectives, strategic and policy issues and considers management of Reserved powers and delegation key risks facing the Group.
The Board is responsible for A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been acquisitions and divestments, major capital expenditure adopted and its content is being kept under review as the projects and considering Group budgets and dividend policy.
business develops, to align it with operational needs and The Board also determines key appointments.
The Board the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, receives regular updates on shareholders views and more approve matters of substance to the Group as a whole.
detailed briefings are to be given to the Board immediately Senior executives have given written undertakings to ensure following the publication of the Companys annual and compliance within their business operations with the interim results.
Boards formal schedule of matters reserved for itself for decision or approval.
Within these parameters, a framework The Board has established a calendar of business within of delegated authorities is being developed to ensure that which it is currently working, post flotation, to structure the management can exercise on an ongoing basis requisite conduct of its activities going forward.
This provides for the authority for an effective business operation.
financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and performance selfassessments, as well as the conduct of Division of responsibilities standing business.
The calendar is intended to form the The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally basis for effective integration of business activities as defined, with the Chairman being responsible for the between the Board and its principal Committees see pages effective operation of the Board as a whole and supporting 25 and 26, which individually consider their own operating key external relationships.
frameworks against the Boards business programme.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the daytoday The Board plans to meet eight times a year.
In the period management of the business.
The Chief Executive Officer from flotation to 31 December 2005, the Board met twice chairs an Operations Forum, which is a working group and all of the Directors attended each of the Board meetings.
Its principal function is Adhoc meetings can be convened to attend to any matters to act as a conduit for communication between different requiring Board consideration in between regular meetings.
areas of the Groups business and allow the interchange of ideas, as well as feedback, between the research and The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas development, marketing and operational functions across for Board meetings are set in advance.
Executive Directors meet individually and are, where practicable, issued to Directors sufficiently collectively with heads of functions and line management in advance of meetings to facilitate both informed debate to coordinate business priorities.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25 Other issues The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on All Directors have access to the advice and services of request to the Company Secretary and are included on the the Company Secretary and the Companys nominated Companys website, www.
advisers, who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Directors are able to seek In summary, the Committee assists the Board in independent professional advice, if required, at the discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial Companys expense provided that they have first notified reporting, external and internal audits and controls, their intention to do so.
The appointment or removal of the including reviewing 888s annual financial statements, Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
considering the scope of annual audit and the extent of nonaudit work undertaken by external Auditors, The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous approving 888s internal audit programme, advising and transparent procedure for the induction of new on the appointment of external Auditors and reviewing Directors, which is to be formulated with the guidance the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Following a review in 2005 by the Audit Committee, The opportunity to hold office as Nonexecutive Directors of the Board adopted on 31 January 2006 a Groupwide other companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their framework enabling employees to raise any concerns under experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
a formalised Whistleblowing policy, in confidence, and Executive Directors may be allowed to accept Nonexecutive with the assurance of employment protection under the appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long as policy.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Directors and reviewing the operation of this policy.
may be required to account for fees received from such other companies.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition of any legal action against its Directors.
To the extent of the Board.
The Nominations Committee is responsible permitted by Gibraltar law, the Company also indemnifies for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the Board, the Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity determining succession plans for the Chairman and Chief provides cover where a Director has acted fraudulently Executive Officer, and identifying and recommending or dishonestly.
suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference are available Re-election of Directors on request to the Company Secretary and are included on All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders the Companys website, www.
at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of The Nominations Committee comprises three Independent Association of the Company, at intervals of no more than Nonexecutive Directors, Michael Constantine Chair, Brian three years.
Richard Kilsby Nonexecutive Chairman, Mattingley, Amos Pickel and Richard Kilsby, Chairman.
Brian Mattingley, Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel The Nominations Committee did not meet during 2005 the Independent Nonexecutive Directors are appointed and at this early stage from flotation, has not undertaken for an initial period of three years, following reappointment, a formal evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and if approved, by shareholders at the first Annual General experience on the Board.
This extends to director training, Meeting after their appointment.
Audit Committee The Nominations Committee will, in 2006, be considering The Audit Committee comprises three Independent a structured framework for Board, Committee and Director Nonexecutive Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael evaluations and other matters within a programme of Constantine and Amos Pickel.
During 2005, Richard Kilsby activities designed to address its assigned terms was Chairman of the Audit Committee until his appointment of reference.
as Chairman of the Company in March 2006.
The Board is satisfied that Brian Mattingley has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by invitation, the Chief Financial Officer and Internal Auditor attend Committee meetings, as can representatives of the external Auditors.
In 2005, the Committee met once and all of the Committee members attended the meeting.
26 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee on internal control, and for reviewing the effectiveness The Companys Remuneration Committee was formed at of internal control.
It is managements role to implement flotation and comprises solely Independent Nonexecutive Board policies on risk and control, including reporting.
Brian Mattingley chairs the Committee and its system of internal control is designed to manage rather than other members are Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Richard Kilsby was a member of the Committee up until his and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, appointment as Chairman of the Company.
The Remuneration assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Both meetings of the Committee were attended by all of the Committee members The Regulatory and Compliance Committee has during the period.
It anticipates meeting not less than twice responsibility for assisting in the implementation of in 2006 to address its responsibilities under its formal terms an effective framework of policies and procedures, of reference, through the creation of a considered schedule Groupwide.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit The Committee assists the Board in determining its Committee to review, ongoing, the appropriateness responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including and adequacy of systems of internal control and make making recommendations to the Board on 888s policy recommendations to the Board.
The Company has an on executive remuneration, determining the individual Internal Auditor who reports to the Audit Committee, remuneration and benefits of each of the Executive whose audit program for 2006 has been reviewed by Directors, and recommending and monitoring the the Audit Committee.
remuneration of senior management below Board level.
888s risk management team, based in Gibraltar, has The Remuneration Report, which outlines the Committees developed stringent risk management and fraud control work and details of Directors remuneration, is on procedures.
The team makes use of external and internal pages 29 to 34.
The Remuneration Committees terms systems to manage the risks faced by 888s operational of reference are available on request to the Company systems.
Detailed procedures exist throughout the Secretary and are included on the Companys website, Companys operations and compliance is monitored www.
by operational management and the Internal Auditor.
Regulatory and Compliance Committee An extensive risk review was conducted preparatory to Although not specifically recommended by the Combined the flotation in October 2005: Part II of the Prospectus Code, the Board has established a Regulatory and described risk factors faced by the Group.
The Directors Compliance Committee to assist 888 to conduct its have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems operations in accordance with the highest ethical of internal control, taking account of key risks identified standards.
In particular, the Regulatory and Compliance during the flotation process.
The review considered Committee assists the Board in relation to compliance individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines and with all current and prospective applicable regulatory qualitative assessments of residual risks.
The results and legal requirements, as well as the development and have been discussed by the Audit Committee, which has implementation of 888s internal codes and policies.
advised the Board on the ongoing development of corporate controls.
The Audit Committee is guiding internal audit on The Committee comprises Michael Constantine Chair the establishment of a framework for the monitoring of since March 2006, Richard Kilsby, Amos Pickel and John management processes operated to develop, integrate Anderson.
The Committee did not meet during 2005 but has and embed effective Groupwide controls.
done so since the year end to plan a calendar of activities and determine interaction with the Audit Committee.
Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial Audiences The Regulatory and Compliance Committees terms of The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue reference are available on request from the Company with principal and institutional shareholders and sellside Secretary and are included on the Companys website, analysts through a planned programme of investor relations www.
The outcome of these meetings is reported to the whole Board to ensure it keeps in touch Risk Management and Internal Control with shareholder and City opinion.
The programme includes The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for formal presentations of full year and interim results.
the Companys system of internal control, for setting policy 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27 Brian Mattingley, the Senior Independent Director, is Other aspects which 888 promotes include: available to shareholders to address any issues that normal providing the highest levels of service and support contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief to the Groups members: Financial Officer has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
protecting member privacy and the proper handling and use of data in accordance with applicable law: All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2006 Annual ongoing training, development and motivation of General Meeting and private investors are encouraged to employees to retain the widest possible range of take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
talented staff: and The Chairmen or nominated members of the Audit, provision of a safe and healthy workplace in accordance Remuneration, Nominations and Regulatory and Compliance with relevant legislation.
Committees will attend the meeting and be available to answer questions.
Service and Support to Members 888 is committed to providing the highest levels of service Compliance with the Code Provisions and support to its members.
There is a dedicated team As 888 Holdings Public Limited Company is registered in of inhouse trained member support representatives Gibraltar, it is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory for each of the Groups brands providing support 24 7 requirements and is not technically bound by the UK in up to 11 different languages.
A separate, highly skilled Combined Code.
The main legislation relevant to companies team is dedicated to VIP members.
Member support in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance, which is representatives are strictly monitored and benefit from based on the UK Companies Act 1929. ongoing refresher training courses.
888 has retained leading call centre experts to further enhance the quality The Board of Directors confirm that, since flotation, the of its member support.
Company has complied with the majority of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exception Protecting Member Privacy is the performance evaluation of the Board which has not All 888s online products maintain a privacy policy which been undertaken given that there has been insufficient is clearly accessible from each of the Groups websites, time, since flotation, for it to be meaningful.
explaining how the Group deals with members personal data.
All processing of members personal data is Going Concern undertaken inhouse and where personal data is transferred After reviewing the Groups budget for 2006 and its medium between Group companies, appropriate intraGroup term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company processing contracts are put in place.
and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The EU Directive on Data Protection has recently been They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern enacted in Gibraltar but has not yet been brought into force.
basis in preparing its financial statements.
888 has for some time carried out the processing of its members personal data accordingly, in accordance with Corporate and Social Responsibility Statement the EU Directive.
The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for monitoring corporate and social Employees responsibility within 888.
The Board receives periodic The Group respects individuals human rights and treats reports on the Groups activities in this area from the individuals with dignity and respect.
The Board supports Chief Executive Officer.
high standards of employment practice, including providing equal opportunities in the workplace in terms of selection, Members promotion, training and development and a safe The Board is eager to promote online gaming as a environment in which to work.
The Group has reviewed responsible, selfregulating industry which is prepared its compliance with health and safety legislation in its to submit itself to regulatory licensing and believe this is a various locations.
key factor in attracting more participation in online gaming activities.
888 has sought to take the lead in setting the industry standards and a separate report on Responsible Gaming is set out on page 22.
28 Corporate Governance Training and Development Communication Training and development is provided to individuals The Board values the involvement of all the Groups throughout their career to enable employees to maintain employees and is committed to communicating effectively and improve standards of performance, deal effectively with them through formal and informal meetings and with any changes to the work environment and to develop internal publications, including inhouse newsletters their abilities and realise their potential.
Selection for and employee reports.
further training and development is based upon individual and business needs.
2006 will see the launch of the Community 888 Certification Scheme, an initiative that develops Sponsorship all employees, regardless of level, covering a range of 888 is a sizeable employer with a visible presence in disciplines unique to our brand.
Gibraltar and enjoys a good relationship with the local community.
During 2005 the Group has reinforced this Equal Opportunities relationship by making contributions to a number of local 888 is an equal opportunity employer.
No employee or causes, primarily educational.
potential employee will therefore receive less favourable treatment due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic Charities origin, religion, political or other opinion, affiliation, gender, In 2005 the Group made regular donations to Free the sexual orientation, marital status, family connections, Children, EarthAction and NetAid.
The Group also made membership or nonmembership of a trade union a donation to the Disasters Emergency Committee or disability.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Remuneration Report This is the first Remuneration Report of the Board as a Remuneration Policy UK Listed Public Company.
The Company is not required Executive Directors to comply with the directors Remuneration Report Remuneration packages must be sufficient to attract, retain requirements in Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act and motivate Directors of the calibre appropriate to a global 1985, but has chosen to prepare this Remuneration business in a competitive environment.
Report on the basis of those requirements.
The current remuneration packages of the Executive Directors The report sets out the structure and details of the were implemented preparatory to the October 2005 flotation.
remuneration of the Directors for the year ended Each Executive Director signed a new service agreement on 31 December 2005.
It also describes the Boards 14 September 2005.
The components of the remuneration approach to the Principles of Good Governance relating structure are set out on page 30. to Directors remuneration.
At least half of the total potential remuneration of the Chief A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is represented proposed, annually, to shareholders for approval.
This first by a variable element, dependent on the performance of the Remuneration Report will be put to shareholder vote at the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers that these 2006 Annual General Meeting.
represent achievable and motivational levels of personal rewards commensurate with stipulated levels of corporate Remuneration Committee performance.
The Chief Technical Officer receives only a base The Remuneration Committee consists solely of independent salary and no additional performance related remuneration.
Nonexecutive Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael His significant share interest in 888 is considered to provide Constantine and Amos Pickel.
Since flotation up to his substantive linkage to corporate performance.
appointment as Chairman of the Company, Richard Kilsby was also a member of the Committee.
Details of attendances The Remuneration Committee is mandated by the Board at Committee meetings are contained in the statement on to satisfy itself that the level of the Directors and senior Corporate Governance on page 26.
The Remuneration managements remuneration is appropriate having regard Committee has formal terms of reference which are available to pay and conditions throughout the rest of the Group.
It on request in writing to the Company Secretary and on the will further satisfy itself that such remuneration aligns with Companys website, www.
the risks and rewards to shareholders.
In this context the Remuneration Committee will regularly review individual and The Board has overall responsibility for determining the corporate performance targets.
framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any recommendation made by the The 888 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved prior Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration, to flotation but no awards have been granted under the LTIP.
benefits and employment packages of the Executive Directors Performance criteria are to be set in relation to the planned and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
operation of the LTIP see pages 30 to 31, and it is intended that they will be suitably stretching and linked Independent Advice to the Companys performance.
The Board intends that executive remuneration policies be both formal and transparent.
It further acknowledges the In 2006, after taking independent advice and with due importance of taking into consideration independent advice regard to existing contractual arrangements and relevant in setting remuneration policies and benefit levels.
statements made at flotation, the Remuneration Committee will consider, and thereafter keep under review, the level In the preparatory period for the Companys flotation on and composition of executive remuneration within 888. the London Stock Exchange, the Board was advised by The Committee acknowledges the importance of balancing BDO Stoy Hayward LLP which also acted as reporting fixed and performancerelated remuneration elements, Accountants on its initial policies, Freshfields Bruckhaus such that appropriate targets and aspirational levels for Deringer as English legal counsel and Herzog, Fox & executives align with the corporate objectives set and the Neeman as Israeli counsel.
Since the end of the financial successful operation of business strategies.
The review will year, a process has been commenced to identify an take into account the balance between fixed and variable independent executive remuneration adviser to advise the remuneration, and short and long term components of Remuneration Committee.
The selected adviser will be remuneration, together with the justification for any salaries familiar with benefit structures operated within comparable exceeding a comparator group median.
technology businesses, with a global spread and the leisure sector.
Non-executive Directors The Chairman and the Nonexecutive Directors receive fees only, and are not eligible to participate in any bonus plan, 30 Remuneration Report pension plan, share plan, or longterm incentive plan Long Term Incentives of the Company.
The Chairman and the Executive On 30 August 2005 the Company adopted two employee Directors determine the fees paid to the Nonexecutive share incentive plans which took effect from flotation: i the Directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan, and ii the 888 Long Term Remuneration Committee.
On flotation, awards were granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan.
During 2005, no awards were Fees paid to the Nonexecutive Directors were set by granted under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan and none reference to an assessment of the time commitment and have been made to date.
responsibility associated with each role.
Levels take account 888 All-Employee Share Plan of additional demands placed upon individual Nonexecutive All employees and Executive Directors of the Group who Directors by virtue of their holding particular offices, such are not within six months of their normal retirement age are as Committee Chairman and or Deputy Chairman.
The eligible to participate in the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan at fees paid to each Nonexecutive Director during 2005 the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
At the 2006 are disclosed in the Directors remuneration summary Annual General Meeting shareholder approval will be sought on page 32. to extend the definition of eligible participants to include Remuneration Structure consultants of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Base Salary and Benefits Awards under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan can either be Base salaries are subject to annual review with the first granted for no nominal consideration or with a nil exercise review following flotation taking place in June 2006 for price or at an exercise price that will normally not be less Aviad Kobrine and Shay BenYitzhak.
In considering reviews than the market value of an Ordinary Share at the time of in the future, it is anticipated that the Remuneration grant.
In countries where an award or option involving real Committee will take into account key factors, including shares is not appropriate or feasible for legal, regulatory or individual performance appraisals, market competitive levels, tax reasons, a phantom award may be used.
geographic issues and the salary levels of other higher paid executives across the organisation as a whole.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares that an eligible employee may acquire pursuant to share awards or options To assist the Remuneration Committee in their judgements, granted to him in any calendar year under the 888 All benchmark comparator group information comprising the Employee Share Plan may not have an aggregate market Companys principal competitors and other companies value, as measured at the date of grant, exceeding 200% of similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250 is of his annual base salary or such higher limits as the to be commissioned for compilation from independent Remuneration Committee may determine is appropriate in remuneration consultants.
The positioning of 888s executive any individual case.
Awards vest in instalments over a fixed salary levels within the benchmark group distribution will period of up to four years.
The Remuneration Committee may then be submitted to the Remuneration Committee for determine that the vesting and release or exercise of share consideration with independent advice.
awards and options under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan Benefits provided to senior executives include a car is subject to performance conditions imposed at the time of allowance, and health, disability and life insurance.
The initial grant of awards upon flotation under this scheme was not subject to performance conditions, other Annual Cash Bonus than the actual occurrence of the flotation.
John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine are each entitled to an annual cash bonus subject to the achievement of a 888 Long Term Incentive Plan predetermined level of net earnings by their respective All employees and Executive Directors of the Group who employers in the case of John Anderson, the Company and are not within six months of their normal retirement age are in the case of Aviad Kobrine, the Company and Cassava eligible to participate in the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan Enterprises Gibraltar Limited.
The maximum annual cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
bonus entitlement for John Anderson is 200% of basic salary Share incentives under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan can and for Aviad Kobrine, 100% of basic salary.
Shay BenYitzhak be awarded either for no nominal consideration or with a nil is not entitled to an annual cash bonus.
exercise price or granted as an option at an exercise price Pensions that will normally not be less than the market value of an John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine are each entitled to an Ordinary Share at the time of grant.
In both cases, the share annual contribution to their personal pension schemes award or option vests subject to, and to the extent that, of 15% of their respective basic salaries in the case of performance conditions determined at the time of grant Aviad Kobrine, 15% of his basic salary under both service are satisfied during the applicable performance period.
Shay BenYitzhak is entitled to an annual Performance conditions are not capable of being retested, so contribution to his personal pension scheme and managers that any proportion of a performance share award or option, insurance scheme of 13.33% of his basic salary.
which does not vest on the normal vesting date will lapse.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31 In countries where a share award or option involving real Employee Trusts shares is not appropriate or feasible for legal, regulatory or The Company has established two Trusts to further the tax reasons, a phantom award may be used.
The maximum interests of the Company, its subsidiaries and shareholders number of Ordinary Shares that an eligible employee may by providing share incentives to employees including acquire pursuant to share awards or options granted to him Executive Directors of any Group company to enable the in any calendar year under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan Group to attract, retain and motivate employees.
may not have an aggregate market value, as measured at The 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Share Plan the date of grant, exceeding 200% of his annual base salary Trust was created pursuant to a Trust Deed dated or such higher limits as the Remuneration Committee may 14 September 2005 and operated in connection with share determine is appropriate in any individual case.
awards made to certain employees upon the 2005 flotation.
No share award or option may be granted to an employee The Trust currently holds no shares in the Company.
under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan in any calendar The 888 IPO Share Award Trust was created pursuant to year if he has previously been granted a share award a Trust Deed dated 14 September 2005 and operated in or option under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan in the connection with the grant of share awards and nil cost same calendar year.
options to employees of the Group upon the 2005 flotation.
Subject to the satisfaction of applicable performance The Trust currently holds 211,432 Ordinary Shares in conditions, performance share awards and options will the Company.
normally vest in equal tranches over a fouryear vesting Director Appointments Service Contracts period, on each anniversary of the date of the grant or on and Directors Fees such other period or such other basis as the Remuneration Executive Directors Committee may decide.
In accordance with the Combined Code, each Executive As at the date of this report, no awards have been granted Directors service agreement is terminable on no more pursuant to the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan.
In the Prospectus than 12 months written notice.
Each Executive Directors published at flotation, the Remuneration Committee anticipated employment can be terminated by making a payment equal granting awards under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan to to the salary and pension contributions and the value of members of the senior executive management team including other contractual benefits due to the Executive Director the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has yet in lieu of any unexpired notice period.
John Anderson and to consider and determine how many shares will be subject to Aviad Kobrine continue to be entitled to be paid a bonus such awards or what performance conditions will apply to them.
during any unexpired part of the notice period even if the It is intended that they be suitably stretching and linked to the employment is terminated by making payment in lieu of Companys performance.
Awards granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan to John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine pursuant to their Policy on Long Term Incentives service agreements and conditional upon flotation as The Remuneration Committee will obtain and consider described in the Prospectus shall continue to vest during independent advice in setting policy on the grant of options any unexpired part of the notice period and they shall be and awards, the performance criteria to which options and treated as a good leaver under the terms of the 888 awards are subject and the period over which options AllEmployee Share Plan where their employment has been and awards will vest when operating the 888 AllEmployee terminated by making a payment in lieu of notice.
No other Share Plan and 888 Long Term Incentive Plan in future.
The benefits upon termination of employment are payable.
An Remuneration Committee will also have regard to the total Executive Directors entitlement to share awards and share remuneration packages of all senior executives and Directors options under any share incentive plan on termination of when determining the amount of share awards.
employment will be governed by the terms of the relevant plan and in the case of John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine Scheme Limits by the relevant provisions of their service agreements.
Awards and options granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan and the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan may be Resignations satisfied through the issue of new shares.
In accordance with Peter Montegriffo and Eyal Shaked resigned from the Board the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Executive in August 2005.
Eyal Shaked did not have a service contract Remuneration, grants of options and awards are to be and Peter Montegriffo served under a Letter of Appointment planned so as not to exceed 5% of the issued Ordinary Share for a fixed one year term subject to the Companys articles capital in any rolling 10 year period for the 888 Long Term of association and the Board resolving to reappoint Incentive Plan, and 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital Mr Montegriffo for a further term.
Clive Needham, whose in any rolling 10 year period for both the 888 AllEmployee services were provided to the Company by Skyefid Limited Share Plan and the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The until his resignation in February 2005, did not have a Letter Committee intends to have regard to appropriate annual flow of Appointment.
rates so as to ensure that these limits are not breached.
32 Remuneration Report Annual Document Name Position Employer contracting party salary fee date 1 John Anderson Chief Executive Officer The Company 475,000 14 09 2005 Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer The Company 112,500 14 09 2005 2 Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited 137,500 14 09 2005 2 Shay BenYitzhak Chief Technical Officer Random Logic Limited US$250,000 14 09 2005 1 John Anderson is Nonexecutive Chairman of Burford Holdings plc and is not required to account to the Company in respect of his earnings from that company.
He does not receive fees in respect of his directorships of IGC or eCOGRA.
3 The unexpired term of the Executive Directors Service Agreements is 12 months.
Chairman and Nonexecutive Directors The Chairman and the Nonexecutive Directors do not have service contracts but have entered into Letters of Appointment.
Nonexecutive Directors appointments may be terminated by the Company without notice in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance, except for the Chairman who is required to be given six months prior written notice of termination.
No compensation is payable on the termination of the appointment.
Each of the Nonexecutive Directors is appointed to serve until the 2006 Annual General Meeting and, if renewed at the Annual General Meeting, each Directors appointment will continue for a term of three years.
Annual Document Name Position Employer contracting party salary fee date Richard Kilsby Chairman The Company 140,000 14 03 2006 Brian Mattingley Deputy Chairman The Company 80,000 14 03 2006 Michael Constantine Nonexecutive Director The Company 60,000 14 09 2005 Amos Pickel Nonexecutive Director The Company 60,000 14 03 2006 Directors Remuneration Summary The cash emoluments or fees received by the Directors for 2005 are shown below: Base Annual Total Total salary fees bonus Benefits 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Executive John Anderson 847 1,100 217 2,164 1,678 2 Aviad Kobrine 147 250 37 434 3 Shay BenYitzhak 63 12 75 Eyal Shaked 66 42 22 130 148 Non-executive Marie Stevens 222 5 227 Richard Kilsby 46 46 Brian Mattingley 35 35 Michael Constantine 35 35 4 Clive Needham 3 3 1 Peter Montegriffo 27 27 31 Total 1,491 1,392 293 3,176 1,858 1 Where Directors remuneration is denominated in Sterling, costs have been converted at the applicable rate of exchange at the transaction date.
2 Part of Mr Kobrines remuneration is paid by one of his employers, Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited, a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company.
3 Mr BenYitzhaks remuneration was paid by his employer, Random Logic Limited, a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company.
4 The fees in relation to the services provided by Mr Needham were paid to Skyefid Limited.
The Bonuses became payable to John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine upon achievement of the corporate performance target which requires that Net Profit excluding share benefit charges for 2005 exceed US$60 million.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The notified interests of Executive and Nonexecutive Directors in the issued share capital of the Company are: Ordinary Shares 2 1 31 December 2005 1 January 2005 Executive John Anderson 724,758 Aviad Kobrine 55,621 3 Shay BenYitzhak 57,522,356 77,238,562 3 Eyal Shaked 86,283,535 115,857,845 Non-executive Marie Stevens 142,857 Richard Kilsby 114,285 Brian Mattingley 142,857 Michael Constantine 22,857 Clive Needham Peter Montegriffo 1 Or date of appointment if later and adjusted for the share capital restructures during 2005.
2 Or date of resignation if earlier.
3 These shares are held on Trust and are subject to a Relationship Agreement dated 14 September 2005 between, among others, the Company and the Principal Shareholder Trusts.
Further details can be found on page 35.
Details of share capital restructures made during 2005 are explained in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
No changes in Directors share interests have been notified between 31 December 2005 and the date of this report.
Except where stated, all interests were held beneficially.
None existed on or prior to 1 January 2005.
No consideration was paid for the grant of any awards.
1 At the date of Exercise Transfer the market price of an Ordinary Share was 175p.
3 Awarded as a nil cost option.
34 Remuneration Report The market value of one Ordinary Share was 194p at 30 December 2005.
The highest market value during 2005 was 197.5p and the lowest was 134p.
No Director was materially interested during the year in any contract which was significant in relation to the business of the Company otherwise than as disclosed in the Prospectus or these Report and Accounts.
Graph of Total Shareholder Return The period between flotation and 31 December 2005 is considered too short to provide a meaningful comparison of 888 total shareholder return against a benchmark group and has not been shown in this first report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Brian Mattingley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 March 2006
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 35 Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual John Anderson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Report and Accounts of the Group for the year ended Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for reelection.
The report on Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 29 Amos Pickel, who was appointed as an Independent Non respectively, form part of this Directors Report.
executive Director on 14 March 2006, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself Principal Activities for reelection.
During 2005 the Groups principal activities were the provision of online gaming entertainment.
A review of the Share Capital business is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 Changes in the Companys share capital during the period are to 11, the Chief Executives Review on pages 12 to 15 and given in note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
the Financial Review on pages 16 to 19.
Substantial Shareholdings The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 52.
As at 16 March 2006 the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its Share Capital: Results and Dividends Number of % Issued The Groups Profit for the financial year of US$48.0 million shares share capital is reported in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 38.
As stated in the Prospectus, a final dividend will not E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,535 25.60 be paid in respect of the financial year but that it is the O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,535 25.60 intention of the Directors to declare an interim dividend BenYitzhak Family Shares Trust 57,522,356 17.06 payable in October 2006.
As disclosed in the Prospectus, a Relationship Agreement Directors and their Interests governing the relationship between the above Principal Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are Shareholder Trusts and the Company was entered into in shown on page 21.
The Directors who served during the connection with the Companys flotation.
The Relationship year are shown below: Agreement provides that all transactions between the Group and the Principal Shareholder Trusts will be on a normal business basis, that the Group will be allowed to carry on John Anderson business independently of them and that the Principal Marie Stevens appointed 1 February 2005, Shareholder Trusts will not cause the Group to contravene resigned 10 March 2006 the Combined Code unless required by law or as Aviad Kobrine appointed 30 August 2005 contemplated in the Relationship Agreement.
It further Shay BenYitzhak appointed 30 August 2005 provides that each of the Principal Shareholder Trusts will Richard Kilsby appointed 30 August 2005 not solicit Group employees without consent, that only Brian Mattingley appointed 30 August 2005 Independent Directors can vote on proposals to amend the Michael Constantine appointed 30 August 2005 Relationship Agreement, that the Principal Shareholder Peter Montegriffo resigned 30 August 2005 Trusts will consult the Group prior to disposing of a Eyal Shaked resigned 30 August 2005 significant number of shares in order to maintain an orderly Clive Needham resigned 16 February 2005 market and shall not disclose confidential information unless required to do so or having first received consent.
The Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on The beneficial and nonbeneficial interests of the Directors the Principal Shareholder Trusts power to appoint Directors in shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration and obligations to ensure that the majority of the Board, Report on pages 29 to 34. excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The Principal Shareholder Trusts can nominate a Nonexecutive Director Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any for appointment to the Board and the Directors will interests in the shares of the Company or in any material consider the appointment of the nominated person to contract or arrangement with the Company or any of the Remuneration Committee.
In the event that this right its subsidiaries.
is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being Independent Shay BenYitzhak, Aviad Kobrine, Richard Kilsby, Brian Directors, such appointment shall only become effective Mattingley and Michael Constantine who were each upon the appointment to the Board of an additional appointed as Directors during the year, will retire at the Independent Director.
Such restrictions and obligations Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer apply whilst the E Shaked Shares Trust and O Shaked themselves for election.
Shares Trust collectively or the BenYitzhak Family Shares Trust individually, hold not less than 7.5%.
36 Directors Report International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for Charitable Contributions the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be year amounting to approximately US$70,000.
achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also Directors Responsibility Statement requires the Directors to: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting consistently select and apply appropriate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time policies: the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the present information, including accounting policies, in a assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for understandable information: and the preparation of a Directors report which complies with the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999 and members to understand the impact of particular the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Financial statements are published on the Groups website in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the Auditors preparation and dissemination of financial statements, During the year ended 31 December 2005 BDO Stoy which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Hayward LLP were appointed auditors for the purposes of maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the the Company meeting its obligations to prepare financial responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility statements under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial Authority.
For the purposes of meeting the Companys statements contained therein.
statutory requirements under Section 182 of the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended and the filing of The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual the Companys financial statements in Gibraltar pursuant to report and the financial statements.
The Directors are Section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance required to prepare financial statements for the Group in 1999, as amended, BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Limited have been appointed to act as auditors.
IFRSs and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
A resolution for the reappointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited will be Group and Parent Company Financial Statements proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2006.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International On behalf of the Board Financial Reporting Standards and the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and John Anderson cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the Chief Executive Officer effects of transactions, other events and conditions in 16 March 2006 accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Independent Auditors Report To The Shareholders of 888 Holdings Public Limited Company We have audited the Group and the Company financial or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements the financial statements of 888 Holdings Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Public Limited Company for the year ended 31 December Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms of our 2005 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the engagement letter and for no other purpose.
No person is Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Company person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of the terms Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to of our engagement letter or has been expressly authorised 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes 1 to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do to 8 to the Company Financial Statements.
These financial not accept responsibility for this report to any other person statements have been prepared under the accounting or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim policies set out therein.
any and all such liability.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of Audit Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, as adopted by the European Union are set out in the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
888 Holdings Public disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Limited Company has complied with the requirements of Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules in preparing its assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Annual Report as if it was incorporated in the UK.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the information and explanations which we considered statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to statements have been properly prepared in accordance give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of amended and the part of the Remuneration Report to be information in the financial statements and the part of the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited.
Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Opinion consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not received the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in all the information and explanations we require for our audit accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar of the state of the Groups and the Companys affairs as legislation is not disclosed.
at 31 December 2005 and of the Groups Profit for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the financial statements have been properly prepared in reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review Ordinance 1999, Gibraltar Companies Consolidated by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Ordinance 1930, as amended: and whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk of the UK Companies Act 1985. and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises BDO Stoy Hayward LLP BDO Fidecs Chartered only the Directors Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Chartered Accountants Accountants Limited Executives Review, Financial Review, Regulatory and 8 Baker Street, Montagu Pavilion, Compliance Review, Corporate Governance Statement and London W1U 3LL 810 Queensway, Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our UK Gibraltar report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Date: 16 March 2006
42 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information a Company description and activities 888 Holdings Public Limited Company the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group was founded in 1997 and originally operated as a holding company domiciled in the British Virgin Islands.
On 12 January 2000, the Company was continued in Antigua and Barbuda as a corporation under the International Business Corporation Act 1982 with registered number 12512.
On 17 December 2003, the Company redomiciled in Gibraltar with the Company number 90099.
On 4 October 2005, the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group has developed innovative proprietary software applications solutions for virtual Casinos, Poker rooms, e-commerce, credit-card clearing services and online advertising methodologies.
Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited a subsidiary carried out the operations of the Group during the year, principally under the name www.
888. com under the terms of a gaming license issued in Gibraltar.
b Definitions In these financial statements: The Company 888 Holdings Public Limited Company.
The Group 888 Holdings Public Limited Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries Companies over which the Company has control as defined in International Accounting Standard 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and whose accounts are consolidated with those of the Company.
Related parties As defined in International Accounting Standard 24 Related Party Disclosures.
2 Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, including International Accounting Standards IAS and Interpretations, adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed for use by companies listed on an EU regulated market.
The significant accounting policies applied in the financial statements of the Group in the prior years are applied consistently in these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in thousands of US dollars US$000 because that is the currency the Group primarily operates in.
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance 1930, as amended.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 43 2 Significant accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The subsidiaries are companies controlled by 888 Holdings Public Limited Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date the parent gained control until such time as control ceases.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements using the purchase method of accounting.
On the date of the acquisition, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values and any excess of the fair value of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and using consistent accounting policies.
c Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
d Net Gaming Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Net Gaming Revenue is defined as follows: Casino Casino winnings that are the differences between the amounts of bets placed by members less amounts won by members.
Poker Ring games: Rake, which is the commission charged from each winning hand played.
Tournaments: Entry fees charged for participation in poker tournaments.
Casino winnings and revenues from the poker business are stated after deduction of certain bonuses granted to members.
e Foreign currency Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies are translated into US dollar equivalents using year-end spot foreign exchange rates.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange rate differences on foreign currency transactions are included in administrative expenses.
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from US dollars are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i monetary assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at an average exchange rate unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii exchange rate differences on translation of Group entities that have functional currencies different from US dollars are included in administrative expenses.
44 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2 Significant accounting policies continued f Research and development costs Research and development expenditure is charged to the statement of income as incurred.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets requires capitalisation of certain software development costs, subsequent to technological and commercial feasibility being established and the Group having sufficient resources to complete development.
Based on the Groups product-development process, technological feasibility and therefore the creation of substantially improved product, is only established upon the completion of a working model.
The Group generally does not incur any significant costs between the completion of the working model and the point at which the product is ready for general release.
g Taxation The tax expense represents tax payable for the year based on currently applicable tax rates.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet differs from its tax base.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are settled recovered.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
h Intangible assets All intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Amortisation is provided to write off the cost, less estimated residual values, of all intangible assets, evenly over their expected useful lives, and the charge is included within operating expenses.
Intangible assets are reviewed annually for evidence of impairment.
The annual amortisation rates are as follows: Domain names: 10% i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation.
Carrying amounts are reviewed at each balance sheet date for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of the assets less their estimated residual values over their expected useful lives.
The annual depreciation rates are as follows: IT equipment 33% Office furniture and equipment 715% Motor vehicles 15% Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of the term of the lease or useful lives.
j Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually on 31 December.
Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount i. e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, the asset is written down accordingly.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the assets cash generating unit i. e. the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
k Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value and principally comprise amounts due from the credit-card companies and from e-payment companies.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 45 2 Significant accounting policies continued l Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and balances with banks.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
They include short-term bank deposits originally purchased with maturities of three months or less.
m Equity Equity issued by the Company is recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
n Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and carried at the original transaction value.
o Chargebacks and returned e-cheques The cost of chargebacks and returned e-cheques is included in operating expenses.
p Leases Leases are classified as finance leases wherever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
q Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present or constructive obligation as a result of a past event from which it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reasonably estimated.
r Financial instruments The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, related parties, trade receivables, other accounts receivable, trade payables, member deposits and other accounts payable approximate to their fair value.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
s Segment information A business segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing an individual product or service or a Group of related products or services and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services within a particular environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
The Group operates in the following online gaming segments: Casino Poker t Member deposits Member deposits are the amounts that clients place in the Groups electronic wallet or bankroll, including provision for bonuses granted by the Group, less management fees and charges applied to member accounts, along with full provision for casino jackpots.
These amounts are repayable on demand.
46 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 3 Segment information Business segments Casino Poker Consolidated Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Net Gaming Revenue 161,214 138,587 109,817 39,317 271,031 177,904 Result Segment result 79,555 77,207 55,169 13,218 134,724 90,425 1 Unallocated corporate expenses 85,308 47,602 Operating Profit 49,416 42,823 Finance income 735 266 Income tax expense 2,136 1,991 Net Profit for the year 48,015 41,098 Assets Unallocated corporate assets 87,566 65,047 Total assets 87,566 65,047 Liabilities Segment liabilities Poker 20,099 11,613 Segment liabilities Casino 9,226 7,528 Unallocated corporate liabilities 25,911 15,727 Total liabilities 55,236 34,868 1 Including share benefit charges of US$17,234,000 2004: US$nil.
Other than where amounts are allocated specifically to the Casino and Poker segments above, the expenses, assets and liabilities relate jointly to both segments.
Any allocation of these items would be arbitrary.
Geographical segments The Groups performance can also be reviewed by considering the geographical markets and geographical locations within which the Group operates.
This information is outlined below: Net Gaming Revenue by geographical market Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 USA 148,049 102,799 UK 53,871 26,585 Europe 47,289 35,654 Americas 12,007 6,118 Rest of World 9,815 6,748 271,031 177,904 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 47 3 Segment information continued Assets by geographical location Carrying amount Additions to of segment assets property, plant by location and equipment Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Caribbean 235 457 72 Europe 74,589 53,661 1,731 709 Rest of World 12,742 10,929 2,028 846 87,566 65,047 3,831 1,555 4 Administrative expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Share benefit charges all equity settled 17,234 Other administrative expenses 20,094 13,586 Administrative expenses 37,328 13,586 5 Operating Profit Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Operating Profit is stated after charging: Staff costs 41,936 28,916 Audit fees 357 168 Other fees paid to auditors 104 4 Depreciation 2,700 2,427 Amortisation 20 Impairment 832 Chargebacks and returned e-cheques 18,643 12,910 Exchange losses gains 423 268 Payment service providers commissions 17,655 11,013 Share benefit charges all equity settled 17,234 During the year the auditors were paid fees for work done in respect of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Those fees totalled US$2,759,000 2004: US$nil and were reimbursed to the Group by the selling shareholders.
In the income statement total staff costs, excluding share benefit charges, of US$41,936,000 2004: US$28,916,000 are included within the following expenditure categories: 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Operating expenses 24,049 17,157 Research and development expenses 9,968 5,991 Administrative expenses 7,919 5,768 41,936 28,916 At 31 December 2005 the Company employed 886 2004: 689 staff.
48 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 6 Taxation Corporate taxes Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Current tax 2,497 1,991 Deferred tax 361 Taxation expense 2,136 1,991 Analysis of current tax for the year Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Profit before taxation 50,151 43,089 Current tax at the effective tax rate for the year 2,497 1,991 Deferred tax note 11 361 Taxation expense 2,136 1,991 Current tax is calculated with reference to the profit of the Company and its subsidiaries in their respective countries of operation: Gibraltar 888 and its Gibraltar registered subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the Gibraltar Companies Taxation and Concessions Ordinance the CTCO as a tax-exempt Company.
Subject to a change of ownership or activity of a taxexempt Company, the grandfathering of tax-exempt benefits in respect of existing tax-exempt companies will extend up to 31 December 2010.
Domestic corporate tax in Gibraltar is 35% 2004: 35%.
Israel 888s subsidiaries in Israel have entered into separate transfer pricing agreements on an arms-length basis with the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner.
Those agreements are effective until the end of 2007 in respect of the Israeli branch of Intersafe Global Limited and 2010 in respect of Random Logic Limited.
Domestic corporate tax in Israel is 34% 2004: 35%.
UK 888s subsidiary in the UK pays corporate tax in the UK at the applicable rate of 30% 2004: 30%.
7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the Net Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders profit for the year by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share In accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share takes into account all potentially dilutive shares and share options granted, which are not included in the number of shares for basic earnings per share.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Adjusted Net Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 48,015 41,098 1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 337,096,320 337,096,320 Basic earnings per share 14.2 12.2 Diluted earnings per share 14.2 12.2 1 Comparative weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue has been restated in order to reflect the share split that took place on 14 September 2005.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49 7 Earnings per share continued Earnings per share excluding share benefit charges Reconciliation of Net Profit to Net Profit excluding share benefit charges: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Net Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 48,015 41,098 Share benefit charges 17,234 Net Profit excluding share benefit charges 65,249 41,098 1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 337,096,320 337,096,320 Basic earnings per share excluding share benefit charges 19.3 12.2 Weighted average number of dilutive Ordinary Shares 338,419,476 337,096,320 Diluted earnings per share excluding share benefit charges 19.3 12.2 1 Comparative weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue has been restated in order to reflect the share split that took place on 14 September 2005.
8 Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Dividends paid 63,100 26,100 9 Intangible assets Domain Goodwill names Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost At 1 January 2005 Additions 452 400 852 At 31 December 2005 452 400 852 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2005 Amortisation charge for the year 20 20 Impairment charge for the year 452 380 832 At 31 December 2005 452 400 852 Amortised cost At 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2004 Goodwill relates to the business combination detailed in note 18.
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 10 Property, plant and equipment Office furniture and Motor Leasehold IT equipment equipment vehicles improvements Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost At 1 January 2005 8,194 1,375 249 4,765 14,583 Additions 2,420 702 272 437 3,831 Disposals 62 62 At 31 December 2005 10,614 2,077 459 5,202 18,352 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2005 5,946 288 34 1,073 7,341 Charge for the year 1,630 330 57 683 2,700 Disposals 30 30 At 31 December 2005 7,576 618 61 1,756 10,011 Depreciated cost At 31 December 2005 3,038 1,459 398 3,446 8,341 At 31 December 2004 2,248 1,087 215 3,692 7,242 Prior year amounts Depreciated cost at 1 January 2004 3,123 1,102 54 3,932 8,211 Additions in 2004 1,058 92 176 229 1,555 Disposals in 2004 97 97 Depreciation in 2004 1,836 107 15 469 2,427 Depreciated cost at 31 December 2004 2,248 1,087 215 3,692 7,242 11 Deferred taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
The Groups deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Accrued severance pay 195 Provision for vacation 154 Provision for convalescence 12 361 12 Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 56,146 36,574 Restricted cash 6,056 3,761 62,202 40,335 Restricted cash primarily relates to deposits held by banks for guarantees.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 51 13 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 12,535 12,605 Other receivables and prepayments 2,478 2,620 15,013 15,225 The carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
14 Share capital Share capital comprises the following: Authorised 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 Number Number US$000 US$000 Ordinary Shares of US$1 each 3,101,000 3,101 Effect of share split 3,101,000 3,101 Ordinary A shares of US$1 each 3,100,000 3,100 Redeemable preference B shares of US$1 each 1,000 1 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 426,387,500 3,880 426,387,500 3,101,000 3,880 3,101 Allotted, called up and fully paid 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 2005 2004 Number Number US$000 US$000 Ordinary Shares of US$1 each 3,064,512 3,065 Effect of share split 3,064,512 3,065 Ordinary A shares of US$1 each 3,064,512 3,065 Redeemable preference B shares of US$1 each 1,000 1 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 337,096,320 3,068 337,096,320 3,065,512 3,068 3,066 On 10 February 2005 the Company passed a resolution to reclassify the 1,000 US$1 preference B shares in issue into 100,000 US$0.01 preference B shares.
On 31 March 2005 the 100,000 US$0.01 preference B shares in issue were redeemed in full.
The 100,000 authorised preference B shares were subsequently converted into and reclassified as 1,000 US$1 Ordinary Shares.
The 3,100,000 authorised Ordinary A Shares were also reclassified into 3,100,000 US$1 Ordinary Shares.
On 14 September 2005 a share split of 110 to 1 was effected.
888s share capital was also re-denominated from the US dollar to pounds sterling at a rate of US$1.82 1.
In addition, the authorised share capital was increased by the creation of 85,277,500 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each.
The combination of these events resulted in 888 having an authorised share capital of 426,387,500 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 2.1 million nominal value and an issued share capital of 337,096,320 Ordinary Shares of 0.005 each 1.7 million nominal value.
52 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 15 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 4,550 3,320 Corporate taxes 766 1,429 Other payables and accrued expenses 20,277 10,597 25,593 15,346 The carrying value of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
16 Investments in subsidiaries Percentage of Percentage of equity interest equity interest Country of 2005 2004 Name incorporation % % Nature of business Intersafe Global Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Payment processor Cassava Enterprises Limited Antigua 100 100 Member call centre operator Virtual Services Limited BVI 100 100 Advertising Virtual Holdings Management Services Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Operates Group headquarters Intersafe Global Europe Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Payment processor Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Gaming web site operator Virtual Marketing Services UK Limited UK 100 100 Advertising Cassava Sports Limited Gibraltar 100 100 Domain site owner through which which a third party operates a betting exchange Active Media Limited BVI 100 100 Member call centre employer Virtual Marketing Services Gibraltar Limited UK 100 100 Marketing acquisition Dixie Operation Limited Antigua 100 100 Member call centre operator Random Logic Limited Israel 100 100 Research, development and marketing 17 Share-based payment Prior to flotation, the Company adopted two equity-settled employee share incentive plans the 888 All-Employee Share Share Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Awards have been granted under the 888 All-Employee Share Plan conditional upon flotation.
The 888 All-Employee Share Plan is open to all employees and Executive Directors of the Group who are not within six months of their normal retirement age at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards under this scheme will vest in instalments over a fixed period of up to four years.
It is intended that the Long Term Incentive Plan will be open to all employees and Executive Directors of the Group at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan will be subject to performance conditions imposed by the Remuneration Committee at the date of grant.
As at 31 December 2005 no awards were made under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 53 17 Share-based payment continued Details of Shares and Share Options granted as part of the 888 All-Employee Share Plan and shares granted vesting immediately on IPO and thereafter: Share options granted 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year Market value options granted during the year 3,578,287 Outstanding at the end of the year 3,578,287 Weighted average exercise price 1.75 Shares granted 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year Shares granted future vesting 5,292,622 Shares granted immediate vesting 5,078,357 Shares vested during the year 5,078,357 Outstanding at the end of the year 5,292,622 Of the total number of options outstanding at the end of the year none had vested and were exercisable at the end of the year.
The following information is relevant in the determination of the fair value of options granted during the year under the equity-settled 888 All-Employee Share Plan: Valuation information 2005 2004 Option pricing model used Binomial Share price at grant date 1.75 Weighted exercise price 1.75 Exercise period of the market value options is from vesting until expiry of ten years after grant date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards a charge to the income statement in respect of any shares or options granted under the above schemes will be recognised and spread over the vesting period of the shares or options based on the fair value of the shares or options at the date of grant, adjusted for changes in vesting conditions at each balance sheet date.
This charge has no cash impact.
Share benefit charges Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Charges in respect of shares granted to employees on IPO 15,087 Charges in respect of share and option awards 2,147 Charge for the year 17,234 54 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 17 Share-based payment continued The source of the shares granted to employees on IPO was the shareholders immediately before the IPO rather than the Company.
An amount equalling the charge in relation to these shares has therefore been transferred from the share benefit reserve to accumulated profit.
The Group did not enter into any share-based payment transactions with parties other than employees during the current or previous period.
18 Business combination On 20 December 2005, the Group took responsibility for the management of ACTeCASH Limited, a company with common shareholders.
From this date ACTeCASH was managed as a unit of the Group and utilised staff employed by the Group.
In accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, the Group is deemed to have control of ACTeCASH by virtue of the fact it has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of this company and derives economic benefit from doing so.
As such ACTeCASH has been consolidated as part of the Group.
The principal activity of ACTeCASH Limited is operating an e-wallet service as a company registered in Gibraltar.
There has been minimal activity since 20 December 2005.
Details of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired are as follows: US$000 Cash at bank 263 Trade receivable 509 Balance with related party 1,171 Creditors 53 Total 452 No purchase consideration was paid in respect of ACTeCASH Limited.
Therefore goodwill of US$452,000 arose on the transaction.
This goodwill has been fully impaired as of 31 December 2005.
19 Related party transactions At 31 December 2005, the Group was owed US$1,649,000 by companies controlled by shareholders of the Group and by its shareholders 2004: US$2,245,000, of which US$1,633,000 2004: US$nil is due from shareholders relating to flotation expenses.
At this date the Group owed to its shareholders US$318,000 2004: US$381,000.
During the year the Group paid US$198,768 2004: US$69,000 in respect of rent and office expenses to Burford Holdings Limited and Cabot Property Partnership, companies of which Mr John Anderson is a Director.
At 31 December 2005 the amount owed to Burford Holdings Limited and Cabot Property Partnership was US$nil 2004: US$nil.
Remuneration paid to the directors in the year totalled US$3,176,000 2004: US$1,858,000.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 55 20 Commitments and contingencies Lease commitments Future minimum lease commitments under property operating leases for the year ended 31 December 2005, are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 Leases expiring within US$000 US$000 One year 1,985 1,386 One to five years 2,617 1,563 4,602 2,949 The amount paid in the year was US$2,052,463 2004: US$1,419,000.
Lease commitments on the Groups property are shown to the date of the first break clause.
21 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group is exposed through its operations to currencies, interest rate and credit risk.
Policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the Chief Financial Officer.
Certain risks are managed centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre.
The policy for each of these risks is detailed below.
Currency risk The Groups overall financial risk arising from exchange rate fluctuations to the Group is minimal as receipts and the majority of payments are transacted in US dollars.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited to the interest bearing deposits in which the Group invests surplus funds.
Downside interest rate risk is minimal as the Group has no borrowings.
Management monitors liquidity to ensure that sufficient liquid resources are available to the Group.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to receivables from payment service providers.
22 Events subsequent to the balance sheet date On 7 March 2006, a Group company, Random Logic Limited, signed a new operating lease agreement for its rental facilities for a period of 10 years.
As a result, Random Logics previous operating lease agreements will be terminated.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 59 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 General information and accounting policies A description of the Company, its activities and definitions are included in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has applied accounting policies identical to the Groups accounting policies listed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements other than in relation to investments in its subsidiaries which are held at cost less any impairment provision required.
Under Section 10 2 of the Gibraltar Consolidated Accounts Ordinance 1999, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.
2 Investments in subsidiaries The Companys subsidiaries are listed in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and are held at cost less provision for any impairment.
3 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 40,089 Amounts due from subsidiaries 22,846 377 Other receivables and prepayments 40,466 22,846 4 Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 33,497 17,450 Restricted cash 3,034 650 36,531 18,100 Restricted cash primarily relates to deposits held by banks for guarantees.
60 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 5 Share capital The disclosures in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements are identical for the Company.
6 Share-based payment The disclosures in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements are identical for the Company.
7 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 555 Amounts due to subsidiaries 46,926 32,361 Other payables and accrued expenses 4,267 22 51,748 32,383 The carrying value of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
8 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Companys financial risk management objectives and policies are identical to those of the Group as disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shareholder Information THE WORLDS NO.
1 ONLINE CASINO AND POKER ROOM Group Websites 888 is one of the worlds most popular online gaming entertainment A range of shareholder information is available in companies.
Established in 1997 by pioneers of the online gaming the Investor Relations area of the Groups website, industry, 888 has developed a strong brand, scale and member trust.
com, including: Latest information on the Groups share price Information on the Groups financial performance The business is based on its fully integrated proprietary operating News and events software infrastructure backed up by impressive member relationship management and diversified payment processing systems.
888 benefits The following websites can also be accessed through the Groups main web portal 888. com.
from industry leading multi-channel member acquisition capabilities.
Casino 888. com is our umbrella brand.
We operate brands 888s Casino games are offered through its across a range of online gaming websites, such Casino-on-Net and Reef Club Casino offerings.
The main products offered at these websites include traditional casino table Poker 888s Poker offering is through Pacific Poker.
games such as blackjack, roulette and craps as well www.
com as slot machines, video poker, poker ring games and poker tournaments.
Betmate Offers access to a betting exchange for non-USA members only, including sporting and non-sporting betting.
Casino-on-Net is available in 11 languages.
com enjoys a diversified geographical balance with 45% of Net Gaming Revenue from outside the USA.
888 888. tv provides members with a trustworthy and fair A portal for skill games allowing members to download games, open accounts and play tournaments.
888. tv 888. info Allows members to practise their gaming skills for fun through a number of key Casino and Poker games.
888. info Shareholder Services Financial Advisers Auditors All enquiries relating to Ordinary Shares, HSBC Bank plc BDO Stoy Hayward LLP Depository Interests, dividends and 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ Chartered Accountants changes of address should be directed 8 Baker Street to the Groups Transfer Agent: Principal Bankers London W1U 3LL Capita Registrars The Royal Bank of Scotland plc The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road 280 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4RB BDO Fidecs Chartered Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Accountants Limited Contents Tel: 0870 162 3100 Solicitors Montagu Pavilion 01 Highlights 35 Directors Report www.
com Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 8-10 Queensway 02 888 at a Glance 37 Independent Auditors Report 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS Gibraltar 04 Marketing 38 Consolidated Income Statement 06 Technology 39 Consolidated Balance Sheet Further Information 08 People 40 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For further information please contact: Hassans 10 Chairmans Statement 41 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Company Secretary 57 63 Line Wall Road 12 Chief Executives Review 42 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Gibraltar 16 Financial Review 56 Company Balance Sheet 20 Board of Directors 57 Company Statement of Changes in Equity Suite 601 701 22 Responsible Gaming 58 Company Statement of Cash Flows Europort, Europort Road 23 Regulatory and Compliance Review 59 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Gibraltar 24 Corporate Governance IBC Shareholder Information info@888holdingsplc.
com 29 Remuneration Report Incorporated in Gibraltar with registered number 90099 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 HOLDINGS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Connectingto the worlds no.
1 online Casino and Poker room THE WORLDS NO.
1 ONLINE CASINO AND POKER ROOM HOLDINGS PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY Suite 601 701 Europort Europort Road Gibraltar T: 350 49800 F: 350 48280 E: info@888holdingsplc.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2005 www.
