888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement On behalf of the Board of 888 Holdings plc, I am pleased to present the financial results for the year ended 31 December 2009.
These results again demonstrate the resilience of our brand, the breadth and depth of our product offering and our increasing geographic reach, in what was a challenging year for all consumer facing businesses.
Financial Results and Dividend Total Operating Income TOI decreased 6% to US$247 million 2008: US$263 million impacted by difficult trading conditions and unfavourable exchange rates.
EBITDA was US$46 million During the year we also made a significant change to the 888 brand 2008: US$56 million.
Our financial position remains strong as architecture as well as our continuous drive to provide the best offering ever due to the continued cash generative nature of the Business.
The look and feel of our umbrella brand Our cash position as at 31 December 2009 was US$87.5 million has been updated and we have refocused our sub-brands to reflect 31 December 2008: US$98.4 million.
The Board is therefore the four core gaming products 888casino, 888poker, 888sport and recommending a final dividend of 3.0 cents per share in addition to 888bingo.
The new sites were launched in early 2010 and have proved our interim dividend of 1.0 cent per share and special dividend of 2.6 popular with both existing and new players.
cents per share, both paid in October 2009.
The acquisition of the Wink Online Bingo business added to our We are in a strong position to take advantage of the ongoing tremendously successful emerging offering, and the relaunch of Reef industry consolidation and will participate in M&A opportunities as Club Casino introduced a product ideal for the recession, helping and when they become available.
888s casino segment to retain a market leading position.
B2C Dragonfish 888 is more than just a place that offers a first class online gaming Early in the year we rebranded and relaunched the B2B business experience to its players.
It is fast becoming an entertainment as Dragonfish, crystallizing its position as a stand-alone, but destination, a place where people can enjoy a truly interactive complementary, part of the Group.
The Dragonfish brand is highly experience and be part of an online community that shares common visible and has achieved significant cut-through in the competitive B2B interests.
A number of new agreements were signed during the year.
Significantly, in September we signed a landmark deal with Harrahs We continue to innovate across the range of our offering providing International Entertainment, to provide services to its non-US facing players with a dynamic gaming experience.
Cutting edge products customers, marking the first ever B2B deal with a major US Casino such as Live Dealer targeted at European customers are growing operator.
in importance, and a constantly updated suite of instant games integrated across the portfolio helps to keep customers coming back The signing of a partnership with Linden Lab for payment service to the site with increasing spend.
Localisation remains a core focus provision extends our reach outside the online gaming market for the for 888 as we deliver regionally targeted and appealing content in an first time.
Before share benefit charges of US$7 million 2008: US$8 million.
com Responsible Gaming and CSR Responsibility has always been a cornerstone of our business.
The importance of responsible gaming and corporate responsibility was illustrated through the publication of our first stand-alone Corporate Responsibility report, which is available on our dedicated website www.
The Group was saddened by the untimely passing of one of its founders, Dr Aharon Shaked late last year.
Aharon continued to contribute his wisdom and advice to 888 throughout his illness and our thoughts and prayers are with his family.
In December, Shay Ben-Yitzhak, one of the founders of the business, decided to step down from the Board to devote more time to his family.
On behalf of the Board and all staff, I would like to express our appreciation of Shays contribution in growing the Company from its infancy and his continuing contribution to date.
We wish him all the best for the future.
I would also like to add my thanks to all our employees who have worked hard to drive the performance of the business in a challenging operating environment.
Outlook 2009 was a testing year but we have continued to drive growth in both our B2C and B2B businesses, organically and through acquisition.
As the economy moves on from the global financial crisis the wider online gaming industry can look to the future with confidence.
The strength and diversity of our offering leaves us well positioned to continue to create sustainable value for our shareholders.
The Board remains confident about the prospects for the business.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers Review Introduction Business Overview While the economic backdrop remained hostile and continued to Our strategy is underpinned by a number of core objectives: impact performance both in terms of trading and fluctuating exchange rates, 2009 was the year that validated the strength of the Groups l Maintain and improve our position as a leading B2C operator combined business model: a world class B2C operator and an l Become a leading B2B provider with a focus on new entrants innovative and comprehensive B2B service provider.
and major opportunities l Make strategic B2C and B2B acquisitions to enhance our During the first nine months of the year, our B2C business remained market position under pressure from the challenging economic environment.
The l Position ourselves to benefit from market trends and regulatory fourth quarter of 2009 saw a welcome return to more normalised changes trading, with much stronger performance.
Our stand-alone B2B l Remain the most responsible company in the sector business which was branded Dragonfish in March 2009, continued to show good growth with a number of new strategic deals signed, These are the building blocks of our business and we are committed including an agreement with Linden Lab, operator of Second Life for to delivering a strong performance in each of these areas.
payment processing and an agreement with bwin Italia for casino tailored for the newly regulated Italian market.
B2C Whilst the market for our B2C business remained challenging we Throughout the period we maintained investment and innovation retained our focus on innovation to ensure our offering remains at the in both divisions, using our working capital wisely and, as you will forefront of the gaming experience.
This included: exciting visuals, see from the look and feel of this annual report, creating a new increased interactivity, more community focus and a new customer corporate identity and refreshed sub-brands for our B2C offering, loyalty programme.
We also introduced a number of recession now launched to our customers.
busting promotions and products, giving our customers the opportunity to be entertained whilst being sensitive to their spending From a financial perspective, in spite of the difficult environment, we capacity, thus increasing their entertainment value for money.
Total Operating Income was US$247 million 2008: US$263 million with 33% increase in TOI in Following the success of 888ladies, our UK-focused Bingo B2B.
EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: US$56 million.
The business offering, we introduced new social networking features which remains highly cash generative and as at 31 December 2009 our cash make the playing environment more social, such as enhanced chat position was US$87.5 million 31 December 2008: US$98.4 million.
Before share benefit charges of US$7 million 2008: US$8 million.
Under the leadership of the B2C Managing Director the business has taken on a new focus, leveraging new products and marketing campaigns to deliver further growth.
A new Bingo TV campaign was launched in the UK to stimulate Bingo growth.
The innovative Poker Ashes tournament was launched and televised featuring celebrities such as Shane Warne and Darren Gough.
In support of this, a large-scale poker league was launched in hundreds of pubs.
com A live casino product targeted at European customers was launched Total Gaming Services is the strap line that underpins Dragonfishs during the first half of 2009 and includes Roulette, Blackjack unique positioning.
Our clients are given the opportunity to benefit and Baccarat.
Following extensive customer consultation, a new from the advantage of our comprehensive end-to-end service, global Poker version was rolled out incorporating 25 features and design reach, resources and contacts, and specific experience across local changes and we also introduced a new best of breed poker loyalty markets.
This comprehensive offering, unique to Dragonfish, is built programme.
on our extensive experience as an operator and, as such, is a major differentiator from other B2B providers.
888sport, while still a nascent business unit for us, continued to gather momentum during the year.
We introduced a new in-play Dragonfish has its own Managing Director who is responsible for all betting application as well as an innovative video stream feature B2B activities.
These include business development, Programme promoting our most popular events, all assisting in driving additional management & integrations, Client executives Unit, Client marketing & growth to the domain.
operations, B2B marketing and PR and B2B Finance.
This structure as a stand-alone unit ensures that the confidential separation between In December we acquired the Wink Online Bingo business.
The the two activities is retained.
transaction marked a further expansion of our emerging offering segment and is invaluable in helping to support our domination of the A number of deals were signed during 2009, some of which have online bingo industry.
Wink Bingo runs several online bingo networks opened up new territories for us as referred to below.
including WinkBingo, PoshBingo and BingoFabulous.
The network is operated on the Dragonfish bingo infrastructure and had over 60,000 Phumelela in South Africa, where we will be providing a active players at the time of acquisition, making it one of the most comprehensive sports-book offering: poker and casino in the Balkans popular sites for online bingo in the UK.
with Loper Gate: and with Probability to develop and execute opportunities for mobile gaming and mobile lottery services in a In the third quarter of 2009 we began a restructuring and rebranding of number of territories including China, and South and Central America.
Following a comprehensive branding study, it In September we signed a landmark deal with Harrahs International became clear that we needed differentiated sub-brands for each product.
Entertainment, to provide services to its non US facing customers We carefully researched how we could launch a new streamlined, marking the first ever B2B deal with a major US Casino operator.
distinctive and digital modern look without alienating our players and with the potential to attract thousands of new ones.
The decision was taken During the year we also announced three new bingo partners, to build on the strength of the 888 brand and enhance its visual display, MoonBingo, BingoHollywood and Costa Bingo, cementing our while also promoting four key B2C sub-brands with a reinvigorated look position as a global leader in the provision of bingo services.
In November, Dragonfish signed an e-payments deal with Linden Lab, Dragonfish an agreement which extends our offering of Total Gaming Services In March we reached an important landmark in the transformation of into Total Payment Services and highlights the increasingly diverse our B2B business, launching it under its own brand Dragonfish.
nature and strength of Dragonfishs operations.
We have various This stand-alone brand is indicative of 888s intention to become a existing and potential gaming partners interested in our e-payment major player in the B2B market, highlighting Dragonfishs status as an solutions demonstrating this giant step beyond our core operations independent business unit within the 888 Group and emphasising its into the retail environment.
difference from our traditional B2C offering.
indd 05 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chief Executive Officers Review continued People Responsible Gaming Key to the sustainable success of our business and, in turn, the As we state constantly at 888, playing is not just a matter of delivery of shareholder value, is the continued development of our entertainment we take our play very seriously.
team who have once again delivered these excellent results.
Entertainment is our core business and it has an impact both Looking around the Group today, I am most encouraged by our on the people who enjoy it and the environment in which it significant and growing pool of talented employees.
Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental and development programmes are designed to support employees to the sustainability of our business and its future success.
With at all levels, from senior managers to those who are at an early stage responsibility comes transparency and we believe that transparency of their career.
is created through communication and so, as part of that, we took the decision to share the way we conduct our business with all our We remain committed to enable our employees to fulfil their potential stakeholders.
During the year we published our first stand-alone and share in the Groups success.
While we recognise that we still have much to achieve, we are committed to a We believe we have engendered the right culture within our proactive policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the business and we are committed to our corporate values: leadership, high professional and ethical standards we have set for ourselves.
innovation, excellence, customer centricity, collaboration and caring, all of which helped us withstand the tough trading conditions 888 is committed to provide responsible gaming products that throughout the year.
comply with the highest standards of gaming safety, security and fair practice that exist globally.
We regularly collaborate with external and Late last year, 888 mourned the passing of one of its founders, Dr regulatory bodies who guide us on all aspects of responsible gaming.
Aharon was a committed and passionate supporter For more details see our website: http: safe.
of 888 and we shall miss his unique contribution in the future development of the Company.
Our own dedicated responsible gambling website 888responsible.
com provides a full guide to responsible practices Regulation and is a source of practical support for all those involved in gaming 888, as a regulated and responsible company, is constantly reviewing or those who seek to understand the gaming environment.
We are actual and potential changes in the online gaming regulatory regime most proud of our work in this area and will continue to see it as a all over the world.
This serves both to allow the Company to pursue key element in creating a sustainable, growing business.
any possible opportunities to seek, receive and operate under local licences, as well as to guide decision making in relation to its Our 2010 Focus existing operations.
Especially in Europe, the Company is pursuing We aim to grow our B2C business through various strategic licensing possibilities in Italy where the 888 Group already holds a initiatives, including the rebranding and refocusing around products.
licence, France and other jurisdictions.
In addition, 888 is looking We expect further expansion of our geographical footprint, largely into potential licensing opportunities outside Europe.
We believe led by the anticipated regulatory changes that the industry is facing, that the online gaming industry is making big strides towards offering us a much more favourable environment for years to come.
being fully regulated in an increasing number of jurisdictions, in an unparalleled manner which will change for ever the industry In casino, our strategic goal is to maintain our dominant market landscape.
The unique position of 888 makes it well placed to take leading position by continuing to offer the right variety of products advantage of these changes.
and we want to capture as many customer segments as possible.
In pursuit of this goal, we will integrate more products and continue to enhance the customer experience introducing innovative products such as a 3-D virtual casino.
com As regards our poker business, we will continue to focus on product Outlook innovation and customer needs, and will be launching a major In conclusion, in 2009 we made significant progress in a challenging upgrade to our gaming environment and player experience later environment.
Our strong business fundamentals and successful this year.
We will also be introducing various features designed growth strategy are the basis of our long-term sustainability.
to enhance the online poker-playing experience beyond what is available today, aiming to attract a bigger audience to our offering.
We will continue to drive further organic growth, leveraging our enhanced geographic footprint and our dual business model.
In We will aim for greater focus on acquiring new players to our sports parallel, we also remain committed to further acquisitions as part of offering, promoting additional events and investing more in brand the ongoing industry consolidation and also achieving our strategic recognition in specific countries.
We will present unique features as goals.
well as exclusive promotions around the main sports events of the year led by the football World Cup.
2009 was the year in which While 2009 was challenging, the overall market is on a growth sport betting became a real revenue-driver for us: we plan to build on trajectory.
Casino continues to grow and Bingo has significant these achievements and grow our market share in 2010. growth potential especially outside of the UK while Poker remains challenging.
We remain excited that sportsbetting is still a major Bingo will remain a key growth area for us, especially following the opportunity for us.
Last but not least, Dragonfish presents significant acquisition of Wink Bingo, and we will focus on penetrating new additional growth opportunities which we plan to exploit, both in the geographies throughout the year, bringing the message of bingo to Total Gaming and Total Payments environments.
Financially and operationally we have a strong platform to grow our For Dragonfish, 2010 will see a continuation of the successful businesses further and look forward to continuing to provide all our growth strategy, focusing on regulated markets and integrating a stakeholders with value both now and in the future.
number of new products and services to deliver strong organic growth for partners, whilst targeting new partners with the Total Gaming Services proposition.
We feel that we have a unique offering, unparalleled in the market, and will continue to seek major new deals throughout the year.
The year will also see ongoing activity with our current partners, who will enjoy a variety of new games and capabilities that will assist them in growing their own businesses.
Gigi Levy Dragonfishs first independent global payments agreement with Chief Executive Officer Linden Lab will also be launched in 2010, followed by additional payment processing management agreements.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review Financial Summary Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 1 1 2009 2008 $ million $ million Revenue B2C Casino 118.7 133.1 Poker 51.6 71.6 Emerging offerings 25.1 13.8 Other operating income 5.5 Total B2C 195.4 224.0 B2B 51.3 38.6 Total operating income 246.7 262.6 2 Operating expenses 89.9 77.3 Research and development expenses 24.1 27.4 Selling and marketing expenses 67.3 80.2 3,4 Administrative expenses 19.8 22.0 1,3, 4 EBITDA 45.6 55.7 Finance income and exchange gains losses 2.5 0.3 Depreciation and amortisation 8.5 7.3 4 Profit before tax 34.6 48.6 1 Rounded.
2 Excluding depreciation of US$7.0 million 2008: US$5.5 million and amortisation of US$1.5 million 2008: US$1.8 million.
3 Excluding exchange rate loss of US$2.7 million 2008: US$2.6 million.
4 Excluding share benefit charges of US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million.
generated from operating activities of US$41 million 2008: Financial Results US$56 million and its financial position remains as strong as General ever with cash and equivalents at year end at US$88 million and Our financial results in 2009, especially during the first three quarters no debt.
were adversely impacted by both the economic downturn and adverse currency movements.
Total Operating Income declined 6% to US$247 Geographical segmentation million 2008: US$263 million, EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: The Groups revenue stream is well diversified across geographies US$56 million, Profit before tax was US$35 million 2008: US$49 with the UK remaining the largest single jurisdiction.
The table below million and Basic Earnings per share was 9.2 2008: 13.4. shows the Groups geographic revenue distribution: The Group continued to be highly cash generative with Net cash Before share benefit charges of US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million.
com Total operating income by geographical market: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Total operating income $ million % share $ million % share UK 90.4 37 97.1 37 Europe excluding UK 113.7 46 122.0 46 Americas excluding USA 19.1 8 26.2 10 Rest of World 23.5 9 17.3 7 Total 246.7 100 262.6 100 Rounded.
In 2009 888s turnover grew 36% in Rest of World while all other During the year, the Group established a new outsourced low-cost reported geographic markets showed decline: 7% in UK and Europe development centre in Ukraine.
While the number of development excluding UK and 27% in the Americas excluding USA.
The relative staff employed and outsourced increased during the year, size of the UK and Europe excluding UK remained stable at 37% development expenses were reduced to US$24.1 million 2008: and 46%, respectively.
The reduction was driven by more cost-effective workforce benefited from the new outsource local development Expenses centre which was established in late 2008 in Ukraine and partially a During 2009, the Group continued its investment in infrastructure result of a favourable exchange rate movement.
as required to propel its B2B capabilities while continuing the development of its B2C offerings.
Marketing expenses, driven almost exclusively by B2C activities, were US$67.3 million 2008: US$80.2 million, representing 27% of Operating expenses, which are mainly salaries, chargebacks and B2C Total Operating Income 2008: 31%.
payment service providers commissions, totalled US$98.4 million 2008: US$84.6 million representing 40% of Total Operating Administrative expenses at US$22.5 million 2008: US$24.6 million.
Salaries and benefits, representing the largest component of operating expenses were US$45.5 million In 2009, the Group continued optimising cost per acquisition across 2008: US$40.3 million reflecting an increase of 13% as a result of various customer recruitment channels.
During the year, 888s continued investment in building up the B2B business.
Chargebacks marketing team recruited more than 206,000 new Casino and Poker increased significantly during the year to US$9.0 million 2008: first time depositors from more than 1.1 million 2008: 0.93 million US$4.8 million as a result of industry-wide concerted fraud new real money registrations with an average cost per acquisition in attacks since Q2 2009.
processes and procedures which resulted in a significant reduction in chargebacks starting in November and continuing to date.
indd 09 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Share benefit charges Dividend As part of 888s commitment to invest in human capital, eligible The Groups stated policy is that it intends to make an annual management and employees receive equity awards under the 888 All dividend payment representing 50% of net profit, but the policy Employee Share Plan Share Plan.
In 2009, the Group continued to would reflect long-term earnings and cash flow potential of the award shares and options to employees under the Share Plan.
Given the performance in 2009, the Board is recommending non-cash charge for 2009 was US$7.0 million 2008: US$8.4 million, a final dividend of 3.0 cents per share in addition to the interim and comprising a US$1.1 million charge relating to grants in the current special dividend paid in October 2009. year 2008: US$2.2 million and US$5.9 million 2008: US$6.2 million relating to grants made in the past.
Cash flow The Groups strong profitability during the year was matched by Finance Income strong cash generation with net cash generated from operating While the Group continued to generate and retain cash surpluses activities reaching US$41.5 million 2008: US$56.4 million.
throughout the year, net interest income was only US$0.2 million 2008: U$3.0 million reflecting unprecedented low interest rates.
During 2009, the Group made cash payments of US$30.0 million 2008: US$36.7 million in respect of business investment activities Profit and Earnings per share including US$18 million in respect of the acquisition of the Wink EBITDA Online Bingo Business.
The Group paid US$22.4 million 2008: EBITDA was US$46 million 2008: US$56 million.
EBITDA margin US$25.6 million in dividends to its shareholders consistent with its was 18.5% 2008: 21.2%.
Taxation Balance Sheet The tax charge for 2009 was $2.7 million 2008: $3.1 million The Groups balance sheet remains strong, it has no debt, and reflecting the Groups efficient tax position.
The Groups cash position as at 31 December 2009 was US$87.5 million 31 December 2008: Earnings per share US$98.4 million.
This strong position allows the Group to take Basic Earnings per share were 9.2 in 2009 2008: 13.4. advantage of suitable acquisition opportunities in the consolidating market.
Balances owed to customers were US$37.6 million 2008: US$33.3 million.
The Group maintains 100% cash reserves equal to this liability which would permit immediate withdrawal of all customer Before share benefit charge.
deposits at any time in the extremely unlikely event this was necessary.
com B2C It has always been 888s goal to be the market leader in the global online gaming industry.
In order to achieve this, it is vital to offer an exceptional gaming experience that appeals to a wide range of consumers from the experienced poker player to casual sports fans and people who enjoy a game of bingo.
888 is more than just a place where people go to play online.
2009 saw an increase in the focus on creating online entertainment destinations where players can combine an unparalleled gaming offering with a more complete internet experience, including social Adi Soffer-Teeni networking and personalised activities.
B2C Managing Director The goal is for people to see 888 as a brand beyond gaming and an integral part of their online entertainment experience by fulfilling this wider role in the online lives of players.
Building emotional ties with players and increasing their engagement with the brand builds loyalty, thereby helping to improve customer retention and spend.
Branding As the online gaming industry has evolved, it has become increasingly important to offer all four core gaming products casino, poker, bingo and sport.
Historically the four segments have been marketed as distinct brands to targeted audiences, with crossselling opportunities being utilised where possible.
In 2009 the decision was taken to streamline the 888 brand focus and rebrand core products as being distinct, but complementary, parts of the wider 888 brand.
With a reinvigorated look and feel and unified logos, the brands all speak with one language and link into one offering.
The new sites were launched at the beginning of 2010 as 888casino, 888poker, 888bingo and 888sport, all under the 888. com umbrella brand.
Creating brand continuity allows the new sites to leverage the strength of the 888 brand and greatly increase the 888 share of voice.
The multi-product offering and sub-brand strategy also increases the effectiveness and efficiency of marketing and search engine optimisation strategies, while cross-selling potential improves due to a powerful familiarity between the sites.
888ladies will continue to be the leading bingo site in the UK market targeting the female population, while Pacific Poker and Casinoon-Net will remain as additional stand-alone brands and important aspects of the B2C portfolio.
The December acquisition of the Wink Online Bingo business added other leading brands to the B2C offering Wink Bingo, Posh Bingo and Bingo Fabulous, all of which had previously performed well on the Dragonfish network.
indd 11 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Developing the Offering Online gaming continues to evolve, and 888s offering continues to innovate and change with it in order to remain at the forefront of the online gaming experience.
888 is a truly global gaming destination, with localised offerings providing players in different geographies with games that appeal to them in the language that they speak.
The 888 gaming experience is now available in a total of 23 languages.
Four new languages were added in 2009 as 888 supported growing demand in Eastern Europe.
As part of tailoring the offering to satisfy the demand of todays discerning players we launched the innovative Live 888casino in June, allowing players to have a Las Vegas style live gaming experience in the comfort of their own home.
A live video stream with a personally chosen dealer provides a choice of Roulette, Black Jack, and Baccarat.
Results in this area have been very encouraging.
Live dealer was an important part of the new no-download Casino, which launched in May 2009.
The no-download Casino uses flash games that can be accessed through web browsers such as Internet Explorer or Firefox, rather than downloading any form of software.
The offering of instant online games removes the barrier to entry brought about by the hardship of extra time and effort to download software.
As well as innovative new features, constant improvements continue 888games has since been launched as a stand-alone site with 60 to provide a fresh and exciting gaming experience.
888 continues varied games, with more released continuously.
Games range from to offer a wide range of instant games across the B2C network, scratch cards to video slots and virtual sports.
As the rebranding as games were added in 2009.
These included games with iconic of the core offering is completed, 888games will benefit from brands, such as Cluedo and Spiderman.
Instant games have cross-selling traffic arising through players looking to enjoy a more proven a popular addition.
In Bingo, a new integration platform was instant gaming proposition.
In addition, a further Casino brand was completed allowing rapid game deployment.
The speed to market introduced, as Reef Club Casino was re-launched in August in of these games provides the opportunity to capitalise on trends both English and German.
Reef Club Casino, with a low minimum and target offerings to interest and excite customers: 11 new side deposit limit and high bonus offering, provided an inviting gaming games have already been integrated.
The successful X-Factor game, environment which was well positioned at the height of the recession launched at the beginning of the popular shows run in November when many players were looking for a lower spend alternative and supported through exclusive promotions, is a good example of the continues to offer an alternative experience.
timely introduction of a tailored product.
The Poker offering also benefited from the addition of new features.
The increasing popularity in quick-play games led to the launch of A quick seat for beginners allows novices to pick up the basics in a 888games.
Initially launched on 888sport in July, 888games provides free play environment, while private tournaments, the ability to export the opportunity to play instant win games whilst browsing the site, hand histories, and re-match tournaments give more experienced improving the gaming experience and time spent on the site as well players a more satisfying poker experience.
com Beyond Gaming 888ladies has been a pioneering website not just in its combination of a leading gaming product with a wealth of interactive features, but in the creation of a real online community.
888ladies goes beyond the core bingo product to provide players with a welcoming environment in which to interact with like-minded friends.
Regular promotions, both online and offline, increase ties with players and provide incentives to visit the site frequently.
Introductory offers in Casino included an immediate welcome bonus Promotions ran throughout the year, including opportunities to of 100% on a first deposit of up to $200, and a welcome package win tickets to the Soap Awards at Easter and calendar themed with a value of up to $1400.
Other offers were specifically targeted promotions for Valentines Day, Mothers Day and Halloween.
Promotions included the chance to win a years salary or a dream holiday, while lowering the deposit limit to 25 However, it is the social features that set 888ladies apart.
The fulfilled players need to continue playing with smaller stakes.
888ladies blog receives hundreds of visitors every day, with community features leading to genuine interactivity and goodwill The largest promotion in 2009 was the 8,888,888 campaign, which towards the brand.
Utilising social media through providing daily offered the chance to use three free spins to win the biggest communication and real-time promotions further increases brand online jackpot of all time.
The campaign appealed to players across engagement.
A fan page on Facebook, and a regularly updated the spectrum including new, registered, and high value players, Twitter page have both been developed and are great successes.
The promotion was supported by a 360 degree marketing drive across all media outlets, including direct We will further develop the utilisation of social media and brand mail, television, online, and prominent public advertising, and also by interactivity across additional areas of the B2C offering in 2010. search engine optimisation and cross-selling from 888 sites.
Promotions Offline Marketing The economic environment in 2009 was the worst it has been since 888 continued to seek out ground-breaking and timely offline the advent of online gaming and indeed well before that.
Customer marketing opportunities to build brand awareness amongst key acquisition conditions were, therefore, usually tough.
It was important demographics and to drive online traffic.
to offer new players compelling reasons to open accounts with 888.
Leo Margets, the international female poker icon, and the last woman standing at the WSOP 2009, signed a 2-year contract with 888 and will spearhead the 888 ambassador programme.
Leo has generated enormous media coverage, appearing in over 150 publications, most notably on the front cover of El Pais Semanal the most important magazine for the Spanish audience.
2009 was the second year of 888s partnership with Shane Warne, and he continues to represent 888 at high-profile poker events such as the 888 Poker Open, the Aussie Millions and the World Series of Poker.
Also in 2009, the 888 Poker Ashes TV show was also launched in 2009 to coincide with the cricket Ashes series in the UK, and was broadcast after the cricket each day on Sky Sports.
Moving the traditional rivalry of England and Australia from the cricket pitch onto the poker table led to one of the most successful poker television shows ever.
The 2010 11 cricket Ashes series this time in Australia will see the second season of the 888 Poker Ashes.
As the opposing countries squared up in the Poker Ashes, players could join and represent their country online.
100% welcome bonuses up to $400 offered an extra incentive to become an 888 player and was amongst the most innovative promotions in the poker industry in 2009.
indd 13 30 03 2010 12:33 30 03 2010 12:33 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Shane Warne extended his partnership with 888 in January 2010 888s continuing focus on SEO will be a key driver in the success of and he will continue to represent 888poker and other 888 brands the rebranded core 888 offerings.
2010 Focus 888poker has partnered with an offline poker league and clubs 2010 has started well.
With a number of strategic initiatives in the throughout 2009 taking the 888brand directly to players.
The 888 Poker pipeline, including the completion of the rebranding and refocusing League was first formed in May, and rolled out in over 200 venues around core products, and further expansion of the geographic offering the opportunity to play with Shane Warne in the final.
footprint, 2010 is set to be a year of growth.
Customer Relationship Management In Bingo, the aim for the year is to become a truly global operator, Strong customer relationships are the bedrock of our success.
with penetration in a number of new countries.
In the UK, we will Whilst eye-catching promotions help to drive customer acquisition, build on the success of 888ladies with the 888bingo offering, which customer retention comes from engendering loyalty through building appeals to a wider gaming demographic.
The acquired Wink Bingo bonds with players.
This leads to people playing more games, more business also provides an opportunity to further increase market often, for more time.
share in the growing UK bingo market.
888s ongoing commitment to localisation strengthens relationships The focus in Casino will continue to be on offering the right variety worldwide through speaking to people in their language and culture, of products appealing to the widest range of consumers so as to while the market-leading usage of social features and interactivity maintain the Casino offerings market leading position.
In Poker with players strengthens brand loyalty.
This loyalty is also gained the strategic goal is to differentiate the offering by identifying, and through 888s loyalty plans, which form an important aspect of the fulfilling, a significant customer need that has not yet been answered.
In 2009 888 launched a new Poker loyalty This will be achieved through the creation of a brand positioning that plan, considered one of the best in the sector.
is based on such unique product that customers need.
The VIP offering remains the best in the industry.
VIP members get unparalleled customer service, with personal loyalty managers on call Targeted marketing campaigns in 2009 saw 888sport grow from 24 hours a day to deal with any enquiries quickly and easily.
Exclusive being mainly a tactical business relying on cross-sell into an promotions and more cashback and bonuses also mean that 888 VIPs important contributor to the Group.
888sports growth in 2010 will receive a best in class product with best in class service.
continue through promoting additional events and investing in brand recognition in specific countries.
In 2009, 86 s se ep pa ar ra at te e V VIIP P p pr ro om mo ot tiio on ns s o offffe er re ed d a at tt tr ra ac ct tiiv five e g giifft ts s, b bo on nu us se es s and tickets t to o o on ne e o off t th he e 4 46 6 o offfflliin ne e e ev five en nt ts s h he elld d iin n n niin ne e d diiffffe er re en nt t c co ou un nt tr riie es s.. Search Engine Optimisation h Engine Optimisation SEO The specialis st t S Se ea ar rc ch h a an nd d W We eb b O Op pt tiim miis sa at tiio on n T Te ec ch hn no ollo og giie es s S SW WO OT T team contiin nu ue e t to o g giiv five e 8 88 88 8s s w we eb bs siit te es s p pr ro om miin ne en nc ce e o on n w wo or rlld dw wiid fide e s se ea ar rc ch h engines, m ma ax xiim miis siin ng g t th he e iim mp pa ac ct t o off t th he e p pr ro od du uc ct t o offffe er riin ng g.. S Su uc cc ce es ss sffu ull u us se e of SWOT ha as s h he ellp pe ed d t to o d dr riiv five e p plla ay ye er rs s t to o 8 88 88 8 b br ra an nd ds s, h he ellp piin ng g c cu us st to om me er r acquisition a a an n nd d d t t th h he e o on ng go oiin ng g g gr ro ow wt th h o off 8 88 88 8s sp po or rt t a an nd d 8 88 88 8lla ad diie es s..
In the UK, 888 sites come out on top of Google sear 88 sites com come out on top of Google searches for ches for casino, online casino, online blackjack and poker nline casino ino, online blackjack and pok, er..
This This positioning is r is rep eplicated acr licated a d ac cr ro o oss cor ss core markets.
com Dragonfish Gabi Campos Dragonfish Managing Director 2009 has marked a period of significant growth for the B2B division, New entrants to the online gaming market require diverse gaming with 33% growth over 2008.
Growth has been achieved organically, content, a technology platform to work with, expertise in setting up through the provision of new product and service initiatives that have operations and, above all, knowledge of how to leverage their assets helped Dragonfishs existing partners expand their market share, and and target the gaming consumer.
through the signing of a number of key new partners.
Dragonfishs services help partners optimise the player experience In March 2009, 888 took the decision to brand the rapidly expanding and maximise customer lifetime value.
Utilising over a decades independent B2B division as Dragonfish, crystallizing the divisions experience in the online gaming industry, Dragonfish is able to offer separate function in 888 and signifying its evolution into a major clients a unique end-to-end proposition Total Gaming Services.
A strong leadership team was established to drive the expansion of the business with departments covering This strapline reflects the opportunity for clients not only to benefit Sales & business development, Programme management & from 888s gaming portfolio and experience in technology, integrations, Client executives unit, Client marketing & operations, operations and e-payments, but also utilise advanced marketing B2B marketing & PR and B2B Finance.
The combination of these services, from the provision of offline online marketing, management teams ensures Dragonfish can provide an outstanding B2B service.
of affiliates and search engine optimisation to Customer Relationship Management CRM and business analytics.
Industry leading The creation of the Dragonfish identity was supported with an back-office systems, including operational risk management, 24 7 international advertising campaign in key publications, visibility at customer support and chat hosting services, complete the offering.
major trade shows, and through targeted PR achieving exposure across all trade publications and in overseas gaming markets.
Dragonfish is able to provide clients with broad and customisable solutions for all of their gaming needs.
They can utilise the complete The brand has already achieved significant cut-through in a white label solution or select from individual components to competitive market, and Dragonfish is now one of the largest complement and enhance their own existing gaming offering.
All providers in the B2B sector, with a broad cross section of partners solutions can be tailored for local markets, with Dragonfish currently across all core gaming segments and numerous geographic regions.
providing services in more than 20 languages.
The provision of a New partners were retained in 2009 as strategic agreements were dedicated team and market leading technological infrastructure allow signed with, amongst others, Linden Lab and bwin Italia.
solutions to be both comprehensive and timely.
Dragonfishs goal is to become the major provider of Games & Technology, Marketing services, Operations and e-payments to companies that both lead the e-gaming market or require an experienced partner for entry into the sector.
indd 15 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued Utilising Dragonfish provides a gateway to a huge suite of successful games in a variety of languages, allowing rapid entry into emerging markets.
Dragonfish provides hundreds of games with turnkey integration capabilities, plus the experience and expertise to customise game suites.
Games can be seamlessly integrated through the Advanced Integration Platform allowing constant upgrades, increasing player retention and maximisation of customer lifetime value.
Total Payment Services The unique Total Payment Services offering combines payment optimisation technology and fraud management, including antimoney laundering services, with 24 7 multi-lingual customer operations that assist customers deposits both reactively and proactively.
BUILT FOR YOUR Dragonfish has over a decade of experience in global payment ONLINE WORLD processing and works with a variety of trusted payment partners.
A rich portfolio of local and global payment methods enables Dragonfish to maximise transaction approval rates and provide the Technology Operations Marketing ePayments platform for partners to rapidly penetrate new markets.
With the support of a highly experienced fraud and risk management Casino Poker Bingo Sport Quickplay department, Dragonfishs e-payment solutions are both customer friendly and extremely secure.
com In November an agreement was signed with the worlds leading virtual world technology company Linden Lab, the creator of The agreement with Tsogo Sun Gaming Group followed the Second Life, to provide e-payments, fraud and customer support announcement of a partnership with Phumelela, one of the worlds management services.
This collaboration represented an extension of largest pari-mutuel horseracing and tote betting organisations, to Dragonfishs offering beyond the gaming industry into the wider retail provide a comprehensive sportsbook offering in South Africa.
This environment, and signified its emergence as a strong player in the deal was an example of Dragonfishs ability to co-operate with regulated payment services market.
companies who utilise government licensing, and also indicates Dragonfishs strategy of obtaining first-mover advantage in newly Partners regulated territories.
Dragonfish now works with e-gaming companies, media portals, offline casinos and pools operators, helping them all to maximise Further international agreements were signed in 2009 their online revenues and fulfil the potential of their brands.
harnessing Dragonfishs multi-lingual offering and e-payments expertise in emerging territories.
A partnership with Loper Gate A number of significant partnerships were signed in 2009. launched poker and casino in the Balkans, enabling Dragonfish to Dragonfishs prime position to provide the ideal platform for achieve significant penetration in this emerging market.
international land-based marquee brands to enter the online arena was illustrated through the signing of an agreement with Harrahs Dragonfish remains one of the leading providers of bingo software to launch the internationally renowned World Series of Poker worldwide, providing software to some of the biggest names in and Caesars casino brands online.
This capability was further bingo including Foxy Bingo and Mirror Bingo.
Dragonfish also runs emphasised through the agreement with Tsogo Sun Gaming Group, one of the worlds leading bingo network with over 60 skins offering one of the largest hotel and entertainment groups in South Africa, instant liquidity, dynamic content and access to top tier brands.
also choosing Dragonfish for their first move into online gaming.
This position was further consolidated during the year with the announcement that Kamay Holdings Ltd, owner of leading poker and casino sites LuckyAcePoker, LuckyAce Casino and SuproCasino, selected Dragonfish as its bingo partner to launch Silk Bingo on the Dragonfish bingo network.
The agreement marked the tenth new brand launched on the network in 2009 and complements the new stand-alone networks, all powered by Dragonfish.
"%   ""'% 2009 also saw the fruition of Dragonfishs hybrid strategy for its THE GAMES ENGINE TECHNOLOGY THAT GIVES YOU INSIGHT."
This allows partners to join the Dragonfish bingo GAMES THAT GIVE YOU CHOICE network swiftly, and benefit from instant liquidity whilst gaining a full understanding of back-office functionality, CRM and chat facilities.
Following success on the network, appropriate levels of liquidity subsequently enable partners to launch stand-alone networks, whilst maintaining other brands on the Dragonfish bingo network.
This model was followed by Moon Bingo in June, amongst others.
Dragonfish has been highly pro-active in delivering strong organic www.
com growth for the existing client base through the introduction of new product initiatives.
The poker network has achieved greater liquidity across a number of diverse territories with particular growth for Lucky Ace and Tower Torneos.
Growth has been achieved through new poker software upgrades to provide an enhanced and intuitive player Plans are in place for the development of bingo in the Nordics, enabling experience, the introduction of a new loyalty club and the extension partners to achieve further international expansion, together with a range of the language portfolio.
Successful new language integration of new features that will cement Dragonfishs market-leading bingo projects have been implemented, one example being Lucky Ace position.
This will be supported by the launch of a number of new poker now being offered in languages aimed to target the Eastern stand-alone networks and new brands on the Dragonfish bingo European market.
The recent agreement with WSOP World Series of network.
Poker, arguably the worlds most powerful poker brand, will act as a further catalyst for liquidity growth on the network.
2010 will also mark the launch of new multi-channel marketing In Bingo, Dragonfish launched 17 new Quickplay instant games on campaigns as partners increase spend in UK and pan-European the bingo network, including the global brand X-Factor, to increase territories.
A number of these games have been successfully integrated into Tower Torneos casino in poker Dragonfishs first independent global payments agreement with offering resulting in increased player performance.
Linden Lab will be launched in 2010.
The agreement provides a platform for marketing its Total Payment Services beyond the gaming 2010 Focus industry.
Dragonfish is pursuing a number of existing opportunities in 2010 will see a continuation of the successful growth strategy.
the Forex industry and other non-gaming opportunities.
This includes being the first to regulated markets and integrating a number of new products and services.
The aim is to deliver strong Technological Infrastructure organic growth for partners, whilst targeting new partners with the 888s success is built on the strength of its technological Total Gaming Services proposition so as to maintain the impressive infrastructure.
2009 saw the continued development of the platform growth rate.
from a pure B2C to a hybrid B2C and B2B platform which is able to utilise and offer partners leading infrastructure and a comprehensive The introduction of licensing in newly regulated markets such as suite of applications and services.
Italy offers a significant opportunity to assist operators looking for a speedy entry to such markets.
Dragonfish has recently signed In addition to the customer facing applications and services, B2B an agreement with bwin Italia, a subsidiary of BWIN, to provide a licensees are able to view comprehensive customer data, providing comprehensive casino games suite.
The agreement supports the them with the ability to drill down into data at any level in order to Total Gaming Services proposition allowing partners to either take manage their business better.
advantage of the full white label solution or to select constituent elements to be integrated into their existing online gaming business.
888 continues to invest in technology.
In 2009 a significant In this case.
Dragonfish has developed a flexible gaming platform investment was made in upgrading 888s physical infrastructure, that can be integrated into bwin Italias existing infrastructure.
computing, storage and networking equipment was upgraded, maintaining the best of breed approach to our physical infrastructure: Dragonfish has a number of new product integrations in the pipeline A state-of-the-art data centre replaced one of the existing data that will provide growth opportunities for partners.
Live dealer has centres, and security, networking devices and protocols were proven to be an excellent product for delivering strong growth and replaced in order to provide better performance, maintainability, and the live gaming application will soon be integrated into a number scalability, as well as to reduce energy consumption and bandwidth of partners offerings.
Dragonfish will also be expanding the live costs.
chat multi-lingual customer operations team in Romania to enable partners to accelerate their penetration into new markets.
indd 17 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued The number of servers was also increased.
There are now more than To further enhance development efforts and reduce costs, 1,000 servers in the development and testing environments, and 888 opened and integrated a large new outsourced software 900 in production, most of which are now based on virtual machine development facility in Eastern Europe.
This development centre, in technology.
Ukraine, allows access to excellent, well-trained, highly professional and cost-efficient talent.
By the end of 2009, around 50% of our In addition to data centre improvements, further platform development activities were successfully carried out at this centre.
enhancements and a significant upgrade in 888s payment processing capabilities led to 888 receiving the Payment Card 888 has also focused attention and investment on developing Industry level 1 certification, allowing the Group to provide third party solutions to take advantage of the changing regulatory scene in payment services.
The creation of a leading payment processing Europe.
Tailor-made solutions for both the French and Italian markets infrastructure allows 888, through Dragonfish, to offer partners a Total were developed, seamlessly providing Casino services to B2B partners Payment Services proposition, moving the Company beyond the and leading to a number of significant deals being signed in newly online gaming sector.
regulated regions, such as bwin Italia.
The Integration Platform allows seamless integration of new third Significant work was done during the latter part of the year on party games from multiple vendors into the 888 gaming environment.
Alongside the eye-catching new Building on this flexibility, in 2009, a new Content Management look and feel, the sites infrastructure were rebuilt with content System was implemented for all managed websites.
The new system management systems better optimised for faster performance, enables a greater quantity of content changes to be implemented improving the customer experience by more than halving response with greater speed and frequency across all supported websites.
The bingo platform also benefited from technological enhancement.
Improvements to the Integration Platform saw an abstraction layer In January 2010, a new enterprise resource planning system was created allowing for easy integration of games and third party successfully implemented and integrated into 888s business services, while the chat system was upgraded with enhanced backbone the result of a large undertaking carried out during capabilities and performance, further embellishing the community 2009.
This new system streamlines 888s capability to carry out daily aspect of the bingo offering.
business processes in an optimal manner.
Steps were taken to benefit the player experience as well as Improvements were also made to 888s operational command and improvements in the back-office infrastructure.
The most eyecontrol capability, dramatically enhancing the service levels provided catching of these was the introduction of the Live Dealer offering, to B2B partners through growth and process improvement in the which has proved to be very popular.
A new loyalty system was also Network Operating Center, the 24 7 nerve centre of operations.
This launched in 2009, with the integration of casual games across the greatly improved second level support capabilities.
offering further enhancing player satisfaction.
In order to better support the growing demands from an ever CRM capabilities were also significantly enhanced through the increasing set of B2B partners, and to adapt to the growing implementation of a content management system with multiple offers richness and size of our offering, 888 continues to evolve and and communication channels.
This allows 888 to better segment upgrade existing offerings through routine maintenance, functionality and tailor offers and promotions, making the right offer to the right upgrades, and changes to back-office services.
customer at the right time.
com 888 will continue to invest in technology across the business, ensuring that leading back-office systems provide the basis for an unparalleled experience for both players and partners.
Customer Support and Service 888 remains committed to its goal of being the market leader in the global online gaming industry.
First class customer support is offered for each of the Groups brands and White Labels via telephone, e-mail and chat 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to customers around the world in 11 different languages.
In 2009, we aligned our mission to increase customer conversion and retention by focusing training efforts on sales through service.
On average, our support teams converted 28% of all relevant incoming phone calls to deposits, providing a service convenient to players and beneficial to the business.
The Telemarketing and Proactive Chat department has continued to expand.
Three additional languages have been added to raise the Casino in English total number of languages to eight.
We are pleased to see that the l 98.0% of all phone calls were answered within, on average, department has increased its performance compared to 2008 on 30 seconds all main metrics measured internally efficiency, productivity and l 99.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours revenue generated.
New initiatives and optimisation of talented staff l 95.3% of all chats were answered within, on average, has also seen all main individual metrics increase.
40 seconds Five additional languages were added to the Online Web Self-Service, Poker in English and a deal with RightNow was signed for the full deployment of its l 98.0 % of all phone calls were answered within, on average, CRM solution across all operational sites in 2010.
This investment will 30 seconds help 888 to reduce its operational expenditure, effectively manage its l 89.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours resources and improve efficiency and increase customer satisfaction.
l 89.9% of all chats were answered within, on average 40 seconds A third operational contact centre site was opened in Romania via an Bingo in English outsourcing arrangement at the end of the third quarter of 2009 in l 96.0% of all phone calls were answered within, on average, order to increase cost-effectiveness, capacity and continue providing 30 seconds each individual customer with an outstanding end-to-end customer l 91.0% of all e-mails were replied to within 24 hours experience around the clock.
Operating multiple contact centres is a cost-effective way of managing customer contact overspill and Customer Satisfaction allows for efficient balancing of operational demands.
888 continues to monitor customer satisfaction at key points throughout their lifetime cycle by requesting and analysing realThe main Gibraltar contact centre focuses on providing support for time feedback.
As in previous years a comprehensive survey was our principal markets in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America while conducted to benchmark 888s service level within primary markets, the Antiguan contact centre focuses on supporting the Englishwith the results being used to form the basis of quality improvement speaking markets in Europe, Australia, Asia Pacific and Canada.
In 2010, the newly established contact centre in Romania is set to 888 is proud to note that respondents in 2009 once again gave expand inbound customer services for more brands and languages, their highest rating to the level of professionalism of our support and ultimately to become the main support centre for Dragonfish and representatives.
Respondents from Germany remain the most 888s main markets in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
satisfied, closely followed by respondents from France where results Support teams in all locations aim to close the majority of issues show a considerable increase in satisfaction compared to previous during the first contact, as exemplified in the Service Level studies: Achievement reached in 2009: 19 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
indd 19 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Enhanced Business Review continued l Casino players rated the level of professionalism of our Innovation in this area will continue, ensuring that actions are taken in Representatives at 4.1 out of 5 order that services and processes remain one step ahead of potential l Poker players rated the level of professionalism of our fraudulent activity.
Representatives at 4.0 out of 5 l 89% of all customers who contacted 888 in regards to the Corporate Social Responsibility deposit process, were offered assistance in depositing and or As a global leader in the online gaming entertainment industry, were presented with alternative depositing method to use 888 is committed to a pro-active policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the high professional and ethical standards In addition to understanding the different components of customer we have set for ourselves.
satisfaction, recent surveys demonstrated increased awareness and usage of the state-of-the-art Web Self-Service facility available to Conducting our business responsibly is fundamental to the future English and German speaking customers.
Additional regions will be success of 888 and the sustainability of the business.
At 888, we surveyed in 2010. understand that our responsible approach is both the correct way to do business and one that enhances our credibility with stakeholders, A vital component in maintaining and exceeding customer thereby supporting our international business development.
expectations is 888s ability to access each clients full and complete history in real time, thus optimising customer interactions on all levels.
This year marked a significant milestone for the Company in this field.
During October 2009 we published our first ever Corporate 888s unparalleled customer service and leadership in the e-Gaming Responsibility report for the year 2008.
The report is available at industry has been also recognised by the judges of the 2009 www.
e-Gaming Review Awards when awarding 888 the coveted title Casino Operator of the Year.
We aim to publish such a report every two years.
Fraud and Risk Management Regulation and General Utilising over a decade of experience, 888s Fraud and Risk Regulatory Developments Management Department continues to provide 888 and B2B The regulatory framework of online gaming in different countries partners with a leading fraud prevention service.
888 has built a around the world remains as dynamic and rapidly evolving as ever.
comprehensive database of fraudulent accounts and fraud patterns, While some jurisdictions have moved to curtail the activities of online helping introduce new measures to prevent fraudulent activity.
gaming sites such as the US and Turkey, many others are currently contemplating liberalisation and regulation of the industry, and some In 2009, the following steps were taken to further develop risk have already taken this route.
The Group remains committed to management and fraud control procedures: monitoring closely and addressing regulatory changes as they occur, and to fostering, so far as possible, the trend towards liberalisation l Fraud Alerts 888 planned and created an in-house alerts and regulation of online gaming throughout the world.
mechanism that identifies changing trends and patterns, identifying suspicious activity EU l Cashier a more robust new cashier is being built The European Commission is challenging the online gambling l Back-Office back-office systems were updated, allowing 888 and betting regulatory regimes of various European States.
The to react to changes in the type of fraudulent activity Commission holds that, as regards EU licensed companies, these l Data Analytics data continues to be collected and analysed regimes might infringe the enshrined freedom to provide services, the through the data warehouse systems in order to monitor current freedom of establishment and the concept of mutual recognition.
This fraudulent activity effort is reflected in, inter alia, the infringement proceedings initiated l PCI Level 1 Compliance 888 became the first online against several EU States including Spain, Germany, Portugal, gaming company to be PCI Level 1 Compliant, showing 888s Finland, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark commitment in handling sensitive and personal data with the and France : should these Member States fail to supply adequate highest degree of care reasoning behind their gambling legislation and fail to rectify what is required from them by the EU Commission, the Commission may refer 888 continues to optimise all procedures to ensure that fraud the issue with each Member State to the European Court of Justice.
aspects are covered across the business.
New releases of White Label brands are thoroughly checked to ascertain whether these bring any inherent risk, and new offerings investigated for possible domain specific risks.
com While these proceedings may, in the end, cause the European States Finally in Italy, where the Company holds an online gambling licence, to liberalise their gambling markets, it should be noted that it could current and future legislation will expand the scope of the games be a very long time before resolutions or judgments are reached if at allowed to be offered under the licence e. g. casino games, and will all : and, as the European Court of Justice opined in its judgment in also relax some of the requirements posed to licensees including, the case of bwin v. Santa Casa, the scope of discretion available to inter alia, the spheres of taxation and establishment in Italy.
Member States in this sphere is relatively wide.
In other cases referred to the European Court of Justice by several German courts, the EU In Germany, the State of Schleswig Holstein announced that it will Advocate General reiterated in March 2010 this position and opined not agree to an extension of the prohibitive interstate lottery treaty, although his opinion is not binding upon the Court that EU law does when its term ends at the end of 2011.
While this in itself does not not oblige Member States to recognise online gambling licenses impact the formal validity of the treaty, it could represent a potential issued by other Member States.
However, in 2010 the new Internal future shift in the regulatory regime in Germany.
Market Commissioner opined that the ECJs ruling in the bwin v. Santa Casa case will have little impact on the EU Commissions activities In addition to these infringement proceedings, the EU Commission is in the sphere of cross border gambling services, as that judgment involved in other instances in which the online gambling and betting was based on considerations specific to Portugal and its gaming regulatory regimes appear to contravene rights and freedoms of monopoly: the Commission will continue to review Member States online gambling and betting operators e. g. issuing detailed opinions legislation in the gambling sphere on a case by case basis.
against the enactment of prohibitive legislation, and intervening in the WTO process described below.
However, the pressure exerted by the EU Commission has resulted in several EU Member States contemplating, and in some cases UK advancing, a liberalised or partially liberalised gaming sector: these The DCMS has announced in 2010 that it will review the current Member States include Spain, France, Sweden, Greece, Estonia, online gaming licensing regime, and is considering whether to require Belgium and Denmark.
Other EU Member States such as Ireland, all gaming operators targeting British consumers to be licensed and Cyprus and the Czech Republic are also considering or are already most probably taxed in the UK.
in the process of revising their gaming laws possibly so as to regulate online gaming.
USA In the USA, several bills have been introduced into the 111th Thus, in France, a draft law is in the final stages of the legislative Congress, which focus on online gambling issues.
One of these process, which will authorize the issue of French online gambling bills creates an online gambling licensing regime that will allow for licences, limited to the spheres of poker, sports betting and a Federal online gambling licence to be issued subject to various horserace wagering.
While the draft legislation is still being conditions, limitations and possible exclusions : the bill has yet to be structured, and several aspects of it are still being discussed with the advanced in Congress.
Another bill aims to delay the implementation EU Commission, the Group is watching closely these developments date of the UIGEA regulations to 1 December 2010 following so as to be in a position which will allow it to apply for an online the decision of the Treasury and Federal Reserve to delay the gambling licence in France: this is expected to happen during 2010. implementation date of the regulations until 1 June 2010.
In parallel, several US States including California, Iowa, New Jersey and Florida In 2009, Belgium passed a law which will allow issuance of online are reviewing the possibility of licensing some form of intra-state gambling licences as an extension of existing terrestrial gambling online gambling activities.
licences: therefore, pure online gambling operators may face difficulties in obtaining online gambling licences in that jurisdiction.
WTO The Group is pursuing potential opportunities to allow it to utilise Following a complaint filed in 2007 by the Remote Gaming this change in legislation.
In Denmark, the government announced Association, the European Commission decided to open an that it will introduce legislation which will regulate and license online investigation into whether the United States is in breach of its WTO gambling activities in the spheres of casino, poker and sports betting.
obligations in the sphere of gambling in relation to the period prior Spain too partially revealed its intention to license and regulate online to the planned withdrawal of its commitment.
In March 2009, gaming activities: a draft law is expected to be introduced in 2010, the investigation was concluded with a report issued by the EU and is intended to present a federal online gaming licensing regime.
Commission, which stated that the US measures taken against EU-based online gambling operators breach the WTO commitments of the US.
The EU commission stated that it will seek to reach a settlement with the US in this respect: trade discussions between the US and the EU have dealt with, inter alia, this issue but no decision has been made as yet.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees High Potential Programme At 888 we work hard to nurture and maintain the pool of talent of our A high profile programme designed to identify and develop key employees.
We acknowledge and value all our employees and strive talent within the Company, this programme is a global project with to be an employer of choice.
888 values everyones contribution, participants from all of 888s divisions, sites and locations.
The regardless of their background or gender, and believes that diversity programme includes two groups: team leaders, who are the future helps meet the need of our global customers.
potential managers, and employees, who are the future potential team leaders.
The programme is either 12 or 18 months long, with Since our employees are one of our key stakeholders we value their the time set according to location and includes both individual and opinion.
Therefore, during the last quarter of 2009 we conducted group training sessions.
The project aims to identify future leadership a global employee opinion survey to understand our employees and maximise internal human capital, reducing reliance on sourcing feedback towards different aspects of their life at 888.
The surveys new talent externally, creating an internal tool for career progression, findings form the base for defining our 2010 goals.
forming a tool for retention of key personnel and driving business success by relying on internal business knowledge.
Professional development and training We strive to enable our employees to grow with the business, helping us to retain talent.
During 2009 two major programmes were developed for our employees.
Panoramic Training A global project designed to connect and enhance employees knowledge about the Companys products.
This project aimed to provide a panoramic outlook on both the internal and external parts of the business.
The objectives of the programme are to improve employees connection to the customer experience and enhance the employees understanding of the end user experience, broaden employees understanding of 888 activities and what the Company offers its customers: and increase employees awareness to important Company processes.
The programme includes four categories: customer Voice live calls from the support team: tools understanding operational tools such as reporting systems: products internal product lectures: and tailor-made plans training needs analysis and designed programmes for each division.
com Life at 888 Community At 888 we like to treat our employees as individuals and ensure that 888 is committed to supporting the various local communities in they work in a relaxed and stimulating environment.
which it operates and the broader global community through its ability to reach millions of consumers worldwide.
During 2009, every division had a dedicated division day and during the year over ten special days were marked.
Celebrations were held Our community investment programme includes cash donations and at different times according to locations, their holidays and relevant long-standing community involvement in our key areas across the events.
As happens once a year, during the first quarter staff from a wide Local community involvement variety of levels, from team leaders to senior management, met for a The Gibraltar, Antigua and UK offices focused their community work global summit.
this year on raising funds for a wide range of issues, including Cancer Research UK, Tarik School of Dance, Teen Tales, the Gibraltar To combine creativity and fun at 888, 2009 saw the initiation of a Philharmonic Society and various other global charities.
The exhibition included works of 888 employees, giving them an opportunity to present their work and Our employees in Israel have continued their year long relationship express their creative side.
with the local Derech Haetgar charity, which focuses on enhancing the education of disadvantaged teenagers.
Twenty-six representatives from all 888 locations took part in the exhibition, which included different forms of art such as painting, As has been the case for each of the past three years, employees photography, sculpture, knitting and many more.
in Israel joined the Ruach Hatova national volunteering organisation for a day of goodwill.
A group of 25 employees helped at a special The exhibition was presented at 888 premises in various locations school for refugees, with volunteers working with the children to for 14 days, with the art works then printed onto a calendar and create baskets and ornaments.
indd 23 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Online Charity day Responsible gaming 888 held its third annual charity day.
The 2009 charity day offered 888s Our values place the community and the customer at the centre of all customers across all brands the opportunity to take part in the day and our endeavours.
We are constantly creating new and innovative ways play on the sites for a good cause.
Together, 888 and its costumers to create a caring, responsible gaming environment and to ensure donated a total of US$70,000 to help with the East Africa Crisis.
Environment 888 aims to provide responsible adults with the best online gaming As an online business 888s activities have a relatively small entertainment experience.
However, we acknowledge that within our impact on the environment.
However, we continue to develop our business there is the possibility of danger that the games may pose commitment to environmental issues in order to ensure that this for a small minority of people.
impact is kept to a minimum, and 2009 saw a number of initiatives in this area.
We continuously train all our staff and provide them with the tools necessary to provide a safe gaming experience.
Our training Green IT was targeted as one of our major challenges which programme incorporates methods and techniques that assist our we approached on various levels a Recycling IT: all old and employees in recognising and taking appropriate actions when they nonfunctional IT equipment from all of our locations is now sent for identify compulsive or under-age gambling.
recycling and b Virtualisation VDI project : more than 120 stations were transformed from a PC to the VDI system, enabling us to use Protecting Customers less hardware.
As a responsible, regulated gaming Company we comply with both the GamCare and the eCOGRA guidelines, and during 2009 had our Alongside these projects we continuously measure our energy certification renewed.
consumption to make sure steps are taken to minimise it at all times.
We try to recycle as many materials as possible.
Paper, bottles and GamCare is the leading authority on the provision of counselling, cans are collected regularly from all of our sites on a monthly basis.
advice and practical help in addressing the social impact of gambling We use only ecological detergents in our offices and continue using in the UK.
water saving devices in all our locations.
To minimise the impact of travel on the environment we encourage employees to either cycle to eCOGRA ensures that approved online casinos are properly and work and, in certain locations, provide buses for commuters.
transparently monitored to provide player protection.
To reduce international travel we continue to invest in state-of-theOur site has links to helping agencies and we have placed many art technology and this year we offered the new option of 888Live safeguards for those who need help with controlling their gaming: Meeting to all our staff.
888LM is a web sharing information tool which allows all 888 employees to communicate globally while Self-assessment test: For gamblers who are worried about their viewing the same documents on their personal computer.
gambling habits and want to know more about the signs of compulsive gambling, Controlling deposit limits: Should clients feel the need to, they can control their gambling by self limiting the amounts they deposit per day, per week or per month.
Self exclusion: A member can request to be self excluded for a chosen period, due to different concerns.
Clients can choose from three options of exclusion period 7 days, 30 days and 180 days.
During this period, 888 blocks the account and no promotional e-mails are sent to the client.
com Protecting minors United Nations Global Compact UNGC Under-age gambling on our sites is prohibited and the Group takes During 2009, 888 joined United Nations Global Compact.
The UNGC the matter of under-age gaming extremely seriously.
Our offerings is the largest global initiative to promote the social responsibility are not designed to attract minors.
We use sophisticated verification of businesses.
It is a voluntary initiative, which brings together systems to identify and prevent minors from logging into our thousands of businesses across more than 100 sectors worldwide.
Representatives confirm their commitment to the UNGC in order to promote ten universally accepted principles in the field of human We make every effort to prevent minors from playing on our site.
rights, workplace standards and anti-corruption.
This year, we have added the age verification services of 192. com to complement the existing services provided by URU.
We believe that the activities of 888 are in line with the principles of the Global Compact, and it therefore seemed appropriate We train our staff to be highly sensitive to the possibility of under that we should publicly declare our support and ensure greater age gambling and make sure we immediately suspend any account exposure to a wider public.
By joining the UNGC we are now in line suspected to be an under-age account.
with an established and globally recognised policy framework of environmental, social, and governance policies and practices.
com, has been available, providing information regarding all aspects of responsible gaming.
The site was translated in June 2009 into three additional languages, and is now available in English, French, Spanish and German.
888safe 888 is committed to providing responsible gaming products which comply with the highest standards of gaming safety, security and fair practice.
In March 2009, we were awarded the prestigious TRUSTe Privacy seal of approval for all our websites.
As a result of a rigorous audit we are the first online gaming company to be awarded the Web Privacy Seal, a clear indication of the importance we place on being a highly trustworthy operator.
TRUSTe runs the worlds largest privacy seal programme, with more than 2,000 organisations certified.
It helps millions of consumers identify trustworthy online organisations through its Web Privacy Seal, E-mail Privacy Seal and Trusted Download Programmes.
TRUSTe ensures online privacy and protects confidential user information on more than 2,400 Websites and many of the most highly trafficked, including Yahoo, AOL, Microsoft, Disney, eBay, Intuit, and Facebook.
We continue to collaborate with external and regulatory bodies who guide us on all aspects of responsible gaming, and our dedication to this area is shown through our specialist website, http: safe.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Risk Report The Group operates in a dynamic business environment.
In addition addressed by rerouting traffic using different routes or providers.
to the day-to-day commercial risks faced by most enterprises, the 888 operates a 2457 Network Operations Centre NOC.
The NOCs online gaming industry faces particular challenges in respect of role is to conduct real time monitoring of production activities using Regulatory risk, Reputational risk, Information Technology risk and state-of-the-art systems.
These systems are designed to identify and Taxation risk, each of which is detailed below.
provide alerts regarding problems related to systems, key business indicators and issues surrounding customer usability experience.
Regulatory risk The regulatory framework of online gaming is dynamic and complex.
Taxation risk Change in the regulatory regime in a specific jurisdiction could have a The Group aims to ensure that each legal entity within the Group material adverse effect on business volume and financial performance is a tax resident of the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated and in that jurisdiction.
A detailed regulatory review is set out in previous has no taxable presence in any other jurisdiction.
customers are located worldwide, certain jurisdictions may seek to tax such activity which could have a material adverse effect on the Reputational risk amount of tax payable by the Group or on customers behaviour.
Under-age and problem gaming are inherent risks associated with the online gaming industry and the Group is no exception.
The The Group benefits from favourable fiscal arrangements in some of Group devotes considerable resources to putting in place prevention the jurisdictions in which it has taxable presence without which its measures coupled with strict internal procedures designed to prevent results would be adversely affected.
All gaming activities are based under-aged players from accessing its real money sites.
In addition, in Gibraltar, where the Group currently benefits from a tax exempt the Group promotes a safe and responsible gaming environment to status.
A change of control or activity of a tax exempt subsidiary its customers supplemented by its corporate culture.
The Group has would result in the loss of its tax status.
However, this is not a dedicated Director of CSR & Responsible Gaming tasked with the expected to have a material adverse effect on the overall tax rate of responsibility of implementing such policies.
Further details about the the Group.
The tax exempt status is due to expire by the end of 2010 Groups responsible gaming initiatives are set out in previous pages.
when the Government of Gibraltar intends to introduce a new fiscal regime that complies with EU requirements.
Information Technology risks As a leading online business, the Groups IT systems are critical to its Domestic corporate tax in Gibraltar is 22% 2009 2010.
The Group is reliant on the performance of these systems.
Chief Minister has announced further reductions in anticipation of the introduction of a flat tax rate of 10% in 2011.
A consultation is in Cutting-edge technologies and procedures are implemented place with respect to the new tax regime in Gibraltar and it is widely throughout the Groups technology operations and designed to anticipated, following Government indications, that the new rules protect its networks from malicious attacks and other such risks.
will subject the Group to an effective rate of tax well below the new These measures include traffic filtering, anti-DDoS Distributed Denial flat tax rate.
The Group is currently required to pay a gaming duty, of Service devices, Anti-Virus protection from leading vendors currently set at 1% of gaming yield, with an annual maximum cap and other such means.
Physical and logical network segmentation of 425,000 in aggregate, in respect of its Casino, Poker and Bingo is used to isolate and protect the Groups networks and restrict activities and, separately, at the same rate in respect of the Groups malicious activities.
In order to ensure systems are protected properly Sports offering.
The applicability of the gaming taxes following the and effectively, external security scans and assessments are carried implementation of the new tax regime is, as yet, unclear.
The Group has a high-end storage solution to ensure storage availability and performance.
All critical data is The Groups subsidiary in Israel, Random Logic Limited, and the replicated to another storage device for disaster recovery purposes Israeli branch of Intersafe Global Limited, have each entered into and all data is stored off-site on a daily basis.
separate transfer pricing agreements on an arms length basis with the Israeli Income Tax Commissioner.
The arrangements for In order to minimise dependencies on telecommunication service Random Logic Limited are effective until 31 December 2010, while providers, the Group invests in network infrastructure redundancies the arrangement for the Intersafe Global Limited branch terminated whilst regularly reviewing its service providers.
The Group has two on 31 December 2007.
The Group has discontinued the use of this internet service providers in Gibraltar in order to minimise reliance on branch.
The operation in Antigua also benefits from a low tax regime.
As a part of its monitoring system, the Group deploys set user experience tests which measure performance from different locations around the world.
Network-related performance issues are 26 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
com Board of Directors Richard Kilsby John Anderson Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Richard Kilsby has been Chairman since March 2006, having John Anderson was the Chief Executive Officer of the Group from previously been Deputy Chairman of the Group from August 2005.
He is currently Non-executive He is currently a Non-executive Director of Tullett Prebon plc.
Since Chairman of Burford Holdings plc and was Chief Executive Officer 2001, he has held several Board and management positions in of Burford Holdings plc from 1996 to 2000.
He is Chairman of the various private and venture capital funded companies.
In 2004, he Interactive Gaming Council: a Board member of eCOGRA and acted as independent monitor for the SEC and USA Department of Chairman of 10 Tech Holdings Limited.
Previously, he was a Board Justice in connection with Adecco.
From 1999 to 2002, he was Chief member of Ladbrokes plc from 1990 to 1996.
Executive of Tradepoint and subsequently Executive Vice-Chairman of virt-x plc.
From 1995 to 1998, he was an Executive Director of the Shay Ben-Yitzhak London Stock Exchange, prior to which he was a Managing Director Non-executive Director until 30 December 2009 for Bankers Trust from 1992 to 1995.
He was also Vice-Chairman of Shay Ben-Yitzhak is one of 888s founders, was the Chief Technical Charterhouse Bank from 1988 to 1992, and spent the early part of Officer of the Group and responsible for research and development his career with Price Waterhouse now PwC where he was a partner from the establishment of its research and development centre in from 1984 to 1988.
Previously he was a software engineer for Tower Semiconductor Limited and CIBAM Technologies Limited.
He Gigi Levy holds a BSc in computer science from Technion the Israel Institute Chief Executive Officer of Technology.
Gigi Levy has been Chief Executive Officer of the Group since January 2007, following six months as Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to his Michael Constantine appointment, Gigi worked for Amdocs, one of the worlds largest Independent Non-executive Director software providers and systems integrators in the telecoms market Michael Constantine was appointed in August 2005.
From 1996 NYSE: DOX, most recently as Division President managing Amdocs to 1998, he was Deputy Superintendent of the Turks and Caicos activity in Europe except Eastern Europe, Central and Latin America.
Islands Financial Services Commission, and in 1995 was head of Before joining Amdocs, Gigi held several interim management and the Financial Supervision Unit of the Mauritius Offshore Business consulting roles with various companies in Israel and the UK.
From 1991 to 1995 he was Inspector of also headed Giltek, a telecommunication systems integrator, and Licensees at the Gibraltar Financial Services Commission, latterly Girit Telecommunications, an Israeli Information and Communications Acting Commissioner.
He is a Chartered Accountant and for many Technology systems integrator.
He holds an MBA from the Kellogg years a partner in the firm of Spain Brothers & Company.
He served School of Management at Northwestern University.
Age 38. in the Royal Naval Reserve, reaching the rank of Commander.
Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer Amos Pickel Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial Officer of the Group since Independent Non-executive Director June 2005, and was appointed to the Board in August 2005.
From Amos Pickel was appointed in March 2006.
Formerly the Chief October 2004 he was a consultant to 888.
Previously, he was a Executive Officer of Atlas Management Company Limited and Chief banker with the Media Telecoms Investment Banking Group of Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors of Red Sea Lehman Brothers and prior to that, he was a senior associate with Hotels Ltd.
Previously a Non-executive Director of Gresham Hotel Slaughter and May.
He holds a Masters in Finance from the London Group Plc, he is a non-practising solicitor holding a Masters in Law Business School Distinction, a BA in Economics and an LLB from from New York University and a LL.
B. from Tel Aviv University.
Age 46. member of the Board of Directors of Twenty10 Hotel Fund Limited from 2010.
Brian Mattingley Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director Brian Mattingley has been Deputy Chairman since March 2006, and was appointed to the Board in August 2005.
He was previously Chief Executive of Gala Regional Developments Limited until 2005.
From 1997 to 2003 he was Group Finance and Strategy Director of Gala Group Plc, prior to which he was Chief Executive of Ritz Bingo Limited.
He has held senior executive positions within Kingfisher Plc and Dee Corporation Plc.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance 888 Holdings plc the Company is admitted to the UK Official List Group budgets and dividend policy.
The Board also determines key and traded on the London Stock Exchange, but it is not subject to appointments.
The Board receives regular updates on shareholders the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June views.
2008 the Code as it is a Gibraltar incorporated company.
The Directors support high standards of Corporate Governance and will The Board has established a calendar of business.
This provides continue to comply with the Code as far as it is appropriate for a for the financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets and company incorporated in Gibraltar.
performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis for effective integration The Board of business activities as between the Board and its principal The Directors consider it essential that the Company should be both Committees see pages 29 and 30, which individually consider their led and controlled by an effective Board.
own operating frameworks against the Boards business programme.
Composition The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation Following the resignation of one Director on 30 December 2009, of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual the Board consists of seven Directors as follows: three Independent Directors.
The evaluation process covered a range of issues such as Non-executive Directors, one non-Independent Non-executive Board processes, Board roles and responsibilities, Board agendas Director, a Non-executive Chairman, and two Executive Directors, and committee processes.
The Board and its committees were found comprising the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The biographical details of all of the Directors are given on page 27.
The Board plans to meet six times a year.
During 2009, the Board Strategic approach met six times.
The Board focuses upon the Groups long-term objectives, strategic and policy issues and considers the management of key risks Set out below are details of the Directors attendance record at facing the Group.
The Board is responsible for acquisitions and Board and Committee meetings in 2009. divestments, major capital expenditure projects and considering Total number of meetings held during the year ended December 2009 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 6 3 4 Richard Kilsby 5 n a n a Gigi Levy 6 n a n a n a Aviad Kobrine 6 n a n a n a John Anderson 5 n a n a n a Shay Ben-Yitzhak 4 n a n a n a Michael Constantine 6 3 4 Brian Mattingley 6 3 4 Amos Pickel 5 3 3 n a The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for Board to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Directors have meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued to Directors wide ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate both informed debate individuals, dominates the Boards decision making.
The Board considers that Brian Mattingley, Michael Constantine and Non-executive review and performance Amos Pickel satisfy the criteria of the Code to act as Independent appraisal Non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that, upon his The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with the appointment as Chairman, Richard Kilsby met the independence Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being criteria of the Code.
The other significant commitments of the present.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Non-executive Chairman during 2009 are detailed in his biography on page 27.
Directors meet once per year without the Chairman present in order The Board considers that Mr Kilsbys other commitments do not 28 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
com interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is Shay Ben-YItzhak and Aviad Kobrine were appointed for a period satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Company of three years, following their reappointment by the shareholders effectively.
at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Michael Constantine, Brian Mattingley and Amos Pickel were appointed for a period of three Reserved powers and delegation years, following their reappointment by the shareholders at the 2009 A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been adopted Annual General Meeting.
and its content is reviewed to align it with operational needs and the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, approve Audit Committee matters of substance to the Group as a whole.
Senior executives The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-executive have given written undertakings to ensure compliance within their Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael Constantine and business operations with the Boards formal schedule of matters Amos Pickel.
The Board is satisfied that Brian Mattingley has reserved to it for decision or approval.
sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by invitation, the Chairman, Chief Executive Division of responsibilities Officer and Chief Financial Officer and, where appropriate, the The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally defined, Internal Auditor and representatives of the Companys external with the Chairman being responsible for the effective operation of the auditors attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Board as a whole and supporting key external relationships.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on request to Other issues the Company Secretary and are included on the Companys website, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the www.
Company Secretary and the Companys nominated advisers, who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In summary, the Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging Directors are able to seek independent professional advice, if its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and required, at the Companys expense provided that they have first internal audits and controls, including reviewing 888s annual financial notified their intention to do so.
The appointment or removal of the statements, considering the scope of annual audit and the extent Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
of non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, approving 888s internal audit programme, advising on the appointment of external The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems.
transparent procedure for the induction of new Directors, which has been formulated with the guidance of the Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises three Independent NonThe opportunity to hold office as Non-executive Directors of other executive Directors, Michael Constantine Chair, Brian Mattingley companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their experience and and Amos Pickel, as well as Richard Kilsby, Chairman.
The knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
Executive Directors may Nominations Committee did not meet during 2009. be allowed to accept Non-executive appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long as these are not likely to lead to any conflict The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging of interest.
Executive Directors may be required to account for fees its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The received from such other companies.
Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining succession plans The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and identifying and actions against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by Gibraltar law, recommending suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
The the Company also indemnifies the Directors.
Neither the insurance Nominations Committees terms of reference are available on request nor the indemnity provides cover where a Director has acted to the Company Secretary and are included on the Companys fraudulently or dishonestly.
Re-election of Directors Remuneration Committee All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders at the The Companys Remuneration Committee comprises three first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and thereafter, Independent Non-executive Directors: Brian Mattingley chair, in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, at Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel.
intervals of no more than three years.
Gigi Levy and John Anderson were appointed as Directors Mr Anderson for an initial period of three years at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
indd 29 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate Governance continued The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of Brian Mattingley, the Senior Independent Director, is available Executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any to shareholders to address any issues where contact with the recommendation made by the Remuneration Committee in determining Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is the remuneration, benefits and employment packages of the Executive inappropriate or where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
Directors and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2010 Annual General The Remuneration Report, which outlines the Remuneration Meeting and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of Committees work and details of Directors remuneration, is on pages the opportunity given to ask questions.
The Chairmen or nominated 31 to 38.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees available on request to the Company Secretary and are included on will attend the meeting and be available to answer questions.
Compliance with the Code Provisions Risk Management and Internal Control As 888 Holdings Public Limited Company is registered in Gibraltar, it The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory requirements and is Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on internal not bound by the UK Combined Code.
The main legislation relevant control and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness to companies in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Act, which is of internal control and risk management.
It is managements role to based on the UK Companies Act 1929.
888 Holdings Public Limited implement Board policies on risk and control, including reporting.
Company is in full compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Going Concern only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against After careful review of the Groups budget for 2010, its medium-term material misstatement or loss.
plans, liquid resources and all relevant matters the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable review the appropriateness and adequacy of systems of internal future.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern control and risk management in relation to the financial reporting basis in preparing the financial statements.
process on an ongoing basis and to make recommendations to the Board.
The Company has an Internal Auditor who reports to the The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are Audit Committee.
888s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, has Corporate Social Responsibility Statement developed stringent payment risk management and fraud control The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for procedures.
The team makes use of external and internal systems to monitoring corporate social responsibility within 888.
The Board manage the payment risks.
Detailed procedures exist throughout the receives periodic reports on the Groups activities in this area Companys operations and compliance is monitored by operational from the Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out in the management and the Internal Auditor.
Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 25.
The Directors periodically review the effectiveness of the Groups Community systems of internal control and risk management.
The review Sponsorship considers individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines and 888 is a sizeable employer with a visible presence in Gibraltar qualitative assessments of residual risks.
and enjoys a good relationship with the local community.
During 2009, the Group continued its policy of reinforcing this relationship Relations with Shareholders and Key Financial by making contributions to a number of local causes, primarily Audiences educational.
The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue with principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts through a Charities planned programme of investor relations and financial PR activity.
The In 2009, the Group made donations totalling US$124,799 outcome of these meetings is reported to the Board.
The programme 2008: US$107,821 to organizations promoting various social includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly causes in Gibraltar and Israel.
release of Interim Management Statements, analysts conference calls and periodic road shows.
