34 Risks and uncertainties Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Risks and uncertainties Meggitt operates globally, principally in the We are subject to the export control regulations aerospace and defence markets.
There are of the countries in which we operate.
Those of the risks and uncertainties which could have a USA are particularly complex and detailed and material impact on the groups long-term there is a system of voluntary disclosure to the performance and cause actual results to relevant authorities to deal with any breach.
Any differ materially from expected and historic reported breach, as well as those which are not performance.
Meggitt has a risk management reported, may be investigated and, depending programme covering identi cation, assessment upon its seriousness, may result in criminal, of impact, likely occurrence and mitigation.
civil or administrative penalties or, as in most cases, no further action being taken.
Reduced demand for our products Meggitt is exposed to political risk, possible We have invested signi cant resources in terrorist action and other external factors that implementing a best practice export compliance could reduce air travel and defence spending programme across the group to minimise the and affect demand for our products.
We seek risk of violating the export regulations of to mitigate such risks by spreading our activities the countries in which we operate.
across civil and military markets: sales to In 2004 the US Department of Commerce and original equipment manufacturers and the US Department of Justice commenced an aftermarket services: and between different investigation into the alleged violation of US geographical regions.
export control regulations by a US subsidiary Competition of the group.
In addition, the US Department We operate in highly competitive markets and of State is investigating alleged breaches of compete with established companies with US re-export regulations by a UK subsidiary.
signi cant financial, technological and marketing These investigations are likely to lead to resources.
If we were unable to adequately the payment of financial penalties for which compete in our markets or lose a signi cant a provision has been made.
customer our results would be affected.
Environmental We seek to protect our position by maintaining Meggitt operations and facilities are a broad customer base: developing proprietary subject to laws and regulations that govern intellectual property and products in markets the discharge of pollutants and hazardous that demand high levels of technology, quality substances into air and water, the handling, and service: and through strong, long-term storage and disposal of such materials and relationships with customers.
The diversity of other environmental matters.
Compliance our products and operations reduces the effect is a signi cant obligation with failure to comply of action by any single competitor.
potentially exposing the group to signi cant costs.
Legal and regulatory The group is involved in the investigation and We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course remediation of certain sites for which we have of business and make provision for any expected been identi ed as a potentially responsible party cost to the group.
However, there is a risk that under US law.
We have made provision for the successful claims or costs may exceed the expected costs arising from these sites based on provisions made.
For example, a number of information currently available and established asbestos-related claims are received each year a receivable to the extent these costs are by subsidiary companies.
To date, the total recoverable under the groups environmental amount concerned for such claims in any year insurance policies.
has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance Risks are mitigated by designing processes or indemnities.
There is a provision for claims that minimise the effect of our operations on which cannot be recovered from insurers.
the environment, commissioning independent third-party audits of our sites and maintaining environmental insurance.
Extensive environmental due diligence is carried out on businesses which may be acquired and environmental insurance purchased for all new sites.
Risks and uncertainties 35 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Equipment fault Interest rate risk Equipment manufactured by the group generally Fluctuations in interest rates will affect the operates in extreme environments where a interest the group is required to pay on its serious incident arising from failure could result external borrowings.
We manage this in liabilities for personal injury or death as well risk through the underlying character of as damage to our reputation.
The group mitigates the debt instruments and use of interest its risk by designing manufacturing processes rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
to ensure stringent quality and reliability Retirement bene ts funding standards.
Our reputation for safety and reliability Details of the groups retirement bene t schemes is a key factor for customers in selecting our are shown in note 35 to the Financial Statements products.
Liability insurance protects the group and a summary of funding is shown in the from future product liability claims.
The group is exposed to Fixed price contracts funding risks such as poor investment We have a number of multi-year, xed price performance, changes in interest rates contracts with original equipment manufacturing and improved mortality rates.
Accordingly, we are exposed to With the exception of the schemes that arose the upside and downside of decreases or on the acquisition of K & F, the main schemes increases in the cost of making these products.
in the UK and USA are closed to new members.
Risk is reduced by ensuring estimates of cost The group is discussing future contribution levels are based on reliable historic data and by with trustees aimed at reducing the fide cit level.
entering into multi-year, xed price contracts with major suppliers.
Acquisitions Meggitt has grown by acquisition and continues Foreign exchange to pursue appropriate acquisitions as part of its We operate in, and sell products to, a range strategy.
We are exposed to the risk that of countries with different currencies resulting in such acquisitions do not realise the bene ts an exposure to exchange rates.
Transaction risk anticipated when those businesses were arises where revenues are made in currencies acquired.
Risks are mitigated by due diligence, which are different from those of the costs of business integration processes and, where manufacture.
Transaction risk is hedged in practicable, by representations, warranties the short term but the group remains exposed to and indemnities from the vendors.
the long term risk of exchange rate uctuations.
Further mitigation is achieved by sourcing Supply chain goods and services in currencies which match The group relies on its own manufacturing the exposure.
Translation risk arises on the operations and independent suppliers for key translation of net assets and income statements raw materials and components.
Any disruption of overseas subsidiaries and is managed where to the supply chain could have an impact on the possible by the partial currency matching of groups ability to meet customer requirements borrowings with the net assets of overseas and adversely affect the groups results.
See the Business Review for To address the risk, the group invests further details.
signi cantly in modernising facilities and Credit risk improving production processes to develop Credit risks exist in relation to customers, leading manufacturing operations.
Established credit control business continuity plans are in place to procedures are in place to monitor and manage manage the risk of a loss of a major facility credit risk.
Meggitt bene ts from a wide customer or supplier and are subject to regular testing.
base and is not over-reliant on a single customer.
Relationships with banks and counterparties are closely monitored by the centralised treasury function.
Insurance risk is minimised by choosing insurers of good standing.
36 Financial statements Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Financial statements 2007
