Risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the This may be especially so if the Group suppliers than is the case with the drinks particular risks which affect the Group does not anticipate, identify and respond market.
However, Mitchells & Butlers but it is not intended to be an extensive by evolving its brands, formats and continues to be exposed to the risk of analysis of all risks which may arise in the offerings adequately and sufficiently higher food prices depending on global ordinary course of business or otherwise.
promptly to reflect such changes in availability and demand for products.
Some risks may be unknown to the Group consumer requirements and preferences, and other risks, currently regarded as particularly in regard to the growth in the Mitchells & Butlers is also exposed to immaterial, could turn out to be material.
movements in distribution costs for food and drinks as suppliers increased fuel There are a number of potential risks and Mitchells & Butlers has a Sales and costs may be passed on to the Company.
uncertainties which could have a material Marketing executive for both the Pubs & impact on Mitchells & Butlers long-term Bars and Restaurants divisions, chaired by Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial performance and achievement of its the Divisional Managing Director, which user of gas and electricity and is therefore strategy.
These risks and uncertainties actively monitors consumer trends and the subject to fluctuations in utility costs for arise as a result of operational, market corresponding relevance of Mitchells & example, both gas and electricity costs driven, regulatory or financial factors.
Butlers brands, formats and offerings.
rose sharply during FY 2006 due to global Mitchells & Butlers adopts a pro-active Trials of new operating formats and the price increases.
In order to reduce approach in this area with each member evolution of existing offers are undertaken exposure to short-term fluctuations in of the Executive Committee taking every year as part of this programme.
A energy prices, Mitchells & Butlers has a responsibility for the management of recent example has been the development rolling programme of forward purchases the specific risks associated with their of a format called Pub & Carvery, which for three, six, nine and 12 months in the department: and a dedicated Group was first trialled over two years ago and is future.
An energy awareness team has Assurance team who report through the now trading in 58 sites.
been established to review energy usage HR Director and General Counsel to and is working with the business to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Supplier dynamics continue to find ways to promote further The Company also operates a Risk Food and drink purchases account for the efficiencies in energy consumption.
Management and Disclosure Forum majority of Mitchells & Butlers supply to ensure that the impact of any new costs.
Mitchells & Butlers relative size Market driven factors legislation is considered and that action in the pub and pub restaurant sector, Consumer expenditure plans are put in place to address any particularly following the purchase of the The Groups revenues are linked required changes in advance of any Acquired Sites in July 2006, has allowed it to the economic climate in the United implementation date.
Although Mitchells to renegotiate supplier contracts Kingdom and, to a much lesser extent, & Butlers has been successful in mitigating successfully in the past year.
Changes in consumer these risks in the past, there is no as the Groups legacy tied drinks expenditure may arise as a result of the guarantee that it can continue to do so.
arrangements have reduced, Mitchells & general economic situation, such as in the Butlers has taken advantage of its latter part of this year when rising interest Operational factors increasing freedom to increase the choice rates and an increased indirect tax burden Brands, formats and offerings available to customers on favourable terms.
appear to have impacted consumer Mitchells & Butlers pubs and pub confidence, or more localised specific restaurants compete for consumers However Mitchells & Butlers is factors such as decreased activity in the with a wide variety of other branded contractually bound to use certain financial markets or from reduced tourist and non-branded pubs and restaurants suppliers.
Most notably, as part of its visits as a result of terrorist activity as well as off-licences, supermarkets acquisition of the 550 former Allied throughout the world and in London.
The large supermarket Domecq sites in 1999, Mitchells & Butlers Consumer expenditure in pubs may also groups, in particular, often sell alcohol was required to purchase a fixed minimum vary through consumer perceptions and and especially canned beer, at greatly volume of Carlsberg-Tetley products until attitudes to safety and public order and discounted prices as an element of their 12 December 2007.
Mitchells & Butlers is localised national or international scares marketing strategy.
In 1980, 88% of beer also tied for approximately half of its soft as a result of food contamination.
in the UK was sold through pubs, clubs drinks volume to Britvic plc until February and restaurants the on-trade.
If Mitchells & Butlers was unable However, Mitchells & Butlers has over percentage has been declining steadily, to satisfy its minimum purchase volume 2,000 individual businesses and its range such that during 2006, 57% of beer was obligations to a material extent under of brands and formats targeting different sold through the on-trade with the these agreements, it would be obliged to income and consumer groups mitigates supermarkets and off-licences share pay liquidated damages.
During the year, this risk.
This wide range of offers the off-trade having increased Mitchells & Butlers took the opportunity provides the flexibility to respond to to 43%.
Competition in the eating-out to enter into a new, shorter-term changes in consumer behaviour through market has also increased particularly as agreement with Carlsberg-Tetley which either the evolution of the offer or the a result of the smoking ban, implemented has given more flexibility to the business substitution of an alternative operating in England on 1 July 2007, which has and negotiations are well advanced to format or brand at a particular location.
led to many pubs either beginning to ensure that the Companys soft drinks sell food, having not done so previously, purchases are renegotiated on more Seasonality or improving their food offers.
Customer visits to the Companys pubs and pub restaurants are generally higher Changes in consumer tastes in both food In food, the larger number of food during holiday periods, such as Christmas and drink, for example the heightened ingredients and the more fragmented and New Year, and over bank holidays.
awareness of healthy eating, and nature of food suppliers on the world Frequenting of pubs and pub restaurants demographic trends over time may commodity markets means that Mitchells is otherwise slightly lower during the affect the appeal of Mitchells & Butlers & Butlers has a greater opportunity to winter months than in the summer.
Visits pubs and pub restaurants to consumers.
source food purchases from alternative to pubs and pub restaurants are also 22 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review affected by the weather, with warm sunny operators of licensed premises to hold a required to be paid to the schemes by weather being particularly advantageous premises licence and the manager of the Mitchells & Butlers in order to account for pubs and pub restaurants with pub to hold a personal licence.
Greater for past service benefit deficits and future gardens.
Mitchells & Butlers marketing flexibility of opening hours was introduced service benefit accruals.
These in turn are strategies address the impact of which allows pub operators to apply to the impacted at any point in time by changes seasonality, wherever possible, to capture local authority for permission to change in life expectancy assumptions, the demand in busy periods and to encourage opening hours, subject to objections from performance of the stock market and customers to visit in quieter periods.
local residents, the police and other bond yields.
Regulatory factors Recent legislation means that it may Mitchells & Butlers operates in a heavily However, these groups also now have be appropriate to approach the Pensions regulated sector and changes in regulation a right to ask the local authority for the Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements can have a significant impact upon premises licence to be reviewed at any reached with the Pension Trustees at the Mitchells & Butlers business.
Some time where they believe that any of the time of significant corporate transactions.
examples of the regulatory changes which Governments licensing objectives are Such clearance may include a requirement could affect Mitchells & Butlers include: being compromised.
As a result of such to increase the level of funding over a review, the local authority has the power reduced timescale.
Smoking bans to attach further conditions to the licence, Approximately 90% of Mitchells & Butlers reduce trading hours, call for a change Mitchells & Butlers pension risks have pubs are in England where a full ban in the pub management or ultimately been mitigated by the closure of the on smoking in pubs came into force on suspend or revoke the licence.
defined benefit schemes to new entrants 1 July 2007.
Trading in Scotland in the in 2002.
As an alternative, a competitive first year after its ban came into force Mitchells & Butlers has been successful in defined contribution pension scheme is 26 March 2006 was less strong than in the vast majority of initial applications to now available to eligible new employees.
England in the same period with total extend previous opening hours typically Mitchells & Butlers also maintains a close like-for-like sales up 2% with food sales for an additional hour or two later in the dialogue with the pensions schemes up 8% and drink sales flat.
Since then, week and at the weekend.
The Group Trustees and two of the Trustees are sales have continued to grow but at a does not hold any 24 hour licences.
As a result slower rate than in England as new users Mitchells & Butlers also invests heavily in of the funding deficits in the schemes, sample the smoke-free atmosphere.
Our the ongoing training of its managers and the Company has made additional experience so far suggests that large pubs, staff to ensure continued compliance with contributions of 145m over and above with the capability to serve high volumes licensing laws and that its pubs are the regular service contributions since of good food at attractive prices, will operated in a responsible manner.
listing in 2003 in order to proactively benefit from a ban on smoking.
The Company has smaller pubs, with limited food capacity Changes in taxation previously committed to make an and a bias towards beer sales and machine Mitchells & Butlers activities are affected additional contribution of 20m during income are likely to suffer.
by a number of tax-related matters.
A full actuarial valuation of the These include duty on alcoholic schemes was conducted during FY 2007.
National Minimum Wage beverages, property rates, VAT and The results of this review are expected to The Government has increased the other business taxes.
be finalised in December 2007, together minimum wage by an average of 5.6% per with a fresh schedule of contributions as annum over the last five years, materially Mitchells & Butlers ensures it takes required by the new pensions regulations.
above the rate of inflation.
It currently appropriate action to minimise the risks stands at 5.52 per hour having been from regulation through a number of Property backed refinancing and related increased by 17p for adults in October means including: hedging arrangements 2007.
The Low Pay Commission has active participation with industry During the year, the Company entered recommended that any further increase organisations, such as the British into certain interest and inflation hedging in the national minimum wage should Beer & Pub Association and the British arrangements in anticipation of a property remain in line with general wage inflation, Hospitality Association, ensuring that backed refinancing around a joint venture although to date this recommendation has effective lobbying is carried out: arrangement with R20.
However, the not been endorsed by the Government.
In the operation of a Risk Management sudden, rapid deterioration in debt addition, in October 2007 the Government and Disclosure Forum to ensure that market conditions in the summer meant increased the statutory holiday entitlement the impact of any new legislation that an appropriate financing structure of all employees from 20 to 24 days, which is considered and that action plans was not possible and the transaction could further increased the Groups employment are put in place to address any not be executed.
The hedges remain in costs.
Mitchells & Butlers has in the past required changes in advance of place as the Board believes it is highly successfully mitigated these statutory any implementation date: and likely that these financial instruments increases in employment costs through continual consideration of operating will be used in a future property based productivity improvements.
These procedures to ensure any cost increases refinancing once debt markets have measures have allowed the Group to arising from such changes can be stabilised.
However there is a risk that no maintain the ratio of employment costs mitigated through productivity increases property based refinancing will occur or at 24% of sales in 2007. or other cost reductions.
that the Companys strategy could change such that the hedges would need to be Licensing Financial factors closed out, which would currently result New licensing laws became fully effective Pension funding in a substantial cash loss.
Licensing matters Mitchells & Butlers participates in defined has in place a process to monitor the were taken away from the Magistrates benefit pension schemes which give rise to movement in the value of the hedges Courts and transferred to local authorities various funding risks.
The main risk is the and the position is kept under close and a new requirement was introduced for variability of the amount of contributions and regular review by the Board.
Mitchells & Butlers 23 Annual report and accounts 2007
