18 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material operational and financial risks to the Group and how we seek to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive environment Loss of market share and erosion of We continue to focus on building best of margins from increased competition.
breed products to improve our proposition to the consumer.
This includes investment in consumer retention tools and technology such as MyMoneysupermarket which deliver additional features and functionality to the consumer.
Brand perception Reduction in consumer loyalty with existing Continued investment in television consumers and an inability to attract new advertising reinforced through press activity consumers if the business fails to maintain will maintain the Group in consumers minds.
its position as a consumer champion.
Rigorous checking of the website through audit and review will maintain the accuracy of the information displayed.
Capacity and functionality of our Failure to provide adequate service Capacity planning is carried out at least IT and systems infrastructure levels to consumers or maintain revenue quarterly with a view to maintaining generating services.
capacity at three times peak load.
Additionally the Group maintains n 1 redundancy in relation to its core infrastructure in both its primary and secondary sites.
Retention of key management Lack of necessary expertise or continuity Key existing management and new hires are to execute strategy.
tied in through attractive equity incentive packages and rewarding career structures.
Reliance on search engines paid Reduction in gross margin through The Group will continue to invest in search and natural listings reduction in revenues derived from sustainable search engine optimisation search engine optimisation or failure activities which adhere to search to manage search engine marketing engine guidelines.
solution will be rolled out to assist in managing the profitability of search engine marketing campaigns.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 19 Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Revenue assurance Reduction of or a failure to recognise We will continue to perform independent revenues from contracted providers where reviews using third parties to gain assurance the Group is remunerated on a cost per that the Group is being correctly action basis.
remunerated for the sales it introduces to contracted providers.
Investment in new areas Capital invested in new products and Investments in new areas typically leverage services or new geographies fail to make existing expertise and experience built up a return.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages such that it is not nally committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Financial services and other The business model in financial services or We have a team of regulatory specialists markets regulation and taxation other lines of business may be compromised who work with the business to ensure that it by changes to existing regulation or the remains compliant with existing regulation introduction of new regulation, or changes and informed of impending regulation.
The to the taxation legislation, particularly value Group has embraced regulation to date added tax.
and shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the marketplace more transparent to the end consumer.
The Group continues to monitor ongoing European Union developments in respect of the review of the provision of financial intermediary services with regard to value added tax and any relevant case law in this area as it emerges.
significant worsening in credit markets Financial institutions may reduce the We have invested heavily in our Smart quantum of lending and increase their Search technology which matches acceptance criteria for consumers consumers with providers offering products seeking to obtain credit.
This may that are suitable to their particular credit reduce Group revenues.
This enables the results and information presented to consumers to reect price for risk and reects lenders appetite to lend to different consumer risk categories, increasing the relevance of the results presented, thereby helping to protect Group revenues.
