BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT Our risk management processes are Whilst demand for our products is at times when the price is favourable.
designed to identify, manage and inuenced in part by economic growth In addition, increased energy prices mitigate business risks which could rates, the diverse nature of our products may also increase the demand impact the Groups longand and services and of the customers and for certain of our energy conserving short-term performance and value.
markets served helps to mitigate the products and services.
Our risk management procedures impact of any individual exposure to Legislation and regulation include a forward looking risk map economic conditions.
However, some for each Division and for the Group.
42% of our revenues are to customers We are subject to varying laws This identies key risks, assesses the in the USA and thus we are particularly and regulations around the world.
likelihood of those risks occurring, affected by market conditions in Changes in these could affect the their potential shortand long-term that region.
longand short-term value of the Group.
value and performance implications We cannot predict whether future Technology changes and the actions being taken to manage developments in laws and regulations those risks to a desired level.
The process The Group is focused on products concerning our businesses will have also helps to identify related business which are both technologically an adverse or a positive effect.
advanced and which use advanced For example, a failure to comply technology in their manufacture.
If we Below we describe some of the risks with Export Control regulations could do not keep up with future technological that could affect Morgan Crucible.
have a negative impact, whilst new developments, we are exposed to the There could be an adverse effect environmental performance legislation risk that our products will no longer be on the business from additional risks which affects our customers could competitive.
Conversely, if we are able to not currently known to management.
increase the demand for our energy develop more advanced technologies Further, risks currently believed to be conserving products and services which we may gain additional business.
immaterial could turn out to be material.
can help our customers to address Should these risks arise simultaneously Foreign exchange movements the requirements of such legislation.
or individually they could signicantly We operate on a global basis, with Natural catastrophe affect the Groups business and financial a significant proportion of our profits results.
These statements should be Some of our sites are located in areas earned outside of the UK.
We have read in conjunction with the cautionary that can be subject to the risk of natural significant investments around the statement on page 39 and any forward catastrophes such as earthquake, world, with the greatest proportion looking statements in this report.
Where possible being in the USA.
As such we are subject and cost-effective, we have taken action External risks to translation risk due to exchange rate to physically limit the impact of such movements between world currencies Global political and economic events.
Insurance of these risks has been which could adversely or positively conditions effected where appropriate and we affect the Groups results.
The Group have multiple sites in various geographic Our worldwide operations include has entered into certain hedging and climatic regions which would help activities in a number of developing arrangements to help manage the limit the value and performance impact countries.
Whilst these regions offer impact of currency uctuations and of any single catastrophic event.
growth opportunities which could the Groups relevant treasury policies enhance long-term value, business are summarised in the Financial review Internal risks activities in these areas expose us to on page 31.
Reputation economic, political and business risks.
Raw materials and energy The Group is subject to varying legal Our reputation with all stakeholders and regulatory regimes in these areas, Our products use a range of raw is fundamental to the success of the including those covering taxation, materials and some of our operations Group.
Failure to meet expectations in environmental and other matters.
require significant amounts of energy.
terms of the products and services we Political risks include the imposition of Volatility and increases in prices or provide, the way that we do business trade barriers, expropriation of assets, scarcity of supply could have a material or in our financial performance, could changes in regulations, wage controls impact on our business.
Our raw have a material effect on the Group.
and restrictions on the export of materials are sourced on the world These risks are mitigated through: currency and the volatility of prices, market and in general we have access taxes and currencies.
to multiple sources of supply.
Where  our focus on quality, with over 90% specic material properties require of our production capacity now particular sources of raw materials to be accredited to ISO 9001: used, the Group has processes in hand  our corporate responsibility to bridge any short-term interruption programme, including our of supply and where possible has Statement of Core Values: identied alternative sources.
 our Ethics Policy and Internal Energy costs have risen sharply in recent Compliance Reporting Helpline: and years.
Multiple initiatives are underway, in all divisions, to reduce our energy  our systems of internal control and consumption.
Where possible, advance risk management.
purchases of energy have been made 32 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC FINANCIAL REVIEW Pensions systems, with over 90% of our production Insurance capacity now accredited to ISO 9001.
We operate a number of dened Certain risks are transferred to insurers.
We also work very closely with our benefit pension plans with the largest Specialist third-party audits and internal customers in order to fully understand of these being in the UK and the USA.
inspections, coupled with follow-up of their requirements and to design The pension plans are exposed to the any corrective actions, help to ensure quality test specications that will risk of changes in interest rates, the that major insurable risks are adequately ensure that we can continue to deliver value and performance of investments, managed.
The growth in our aerospace high quality products.
ination and the increasing longevity and medical products businesses of members.
At the year end, the Environmental has meant that this continues to be UK schemes show only a modest deficit an area of particular focus to ensure Our operations involve the normal of 2.5 million.
We will continue to keep that our products are consistently of environmental risks associated with funding levels under review.
the highest quality and that contractual manufacturing operations such arrangements are clear.
The Groups main US dened benefit as spillage, noise, air and soil pension scheme is overseen by The pollution etc.
Although we believe Controls failure Pension benefit Guaranty Corporation that our operations are in compliance We operate internal controls as described which has powers to apply to court with current regulation, potential future in the corporate governance report to terminate the scheme if it does not non-compliance can lead to fines and on pages 46 and 47.
Failures in these meet certain minimum solvency tests.
Specialist third-party and controls could have a material Were there ever to be a termination, internal auditors make regular site impact on the value of the Group.
the Group would be required to visits to ensure compliance with local With operations in over 35 countries meet the full cost of the under-funded regulations.
Provision is made for worldwide we pay particular attention liabilities under the US scheme.
identied remediation obligations to the auditing of internal controls in related to contaminated sites based Competition some of the smaller sites which, given on a reasonable assessment of the their size, tend to have less segregation Given that we operate in highly likely costs of rectification.
competitive markets, significant product Health and safety innovations, technical advances or Business continuity increased price competition could all Our operations involve the typical We mitigate the potential inability affect the Group.
Whilst the diversity of health and safety risks inherent in to supply against contractual our businesses and the markets served manufacturing and business operations.
commitments though business reduces the impact of action by any We are subject to numerous laws and continuity and disaster recovery plans particular competitor, in order to help regulations relating to health and safety which are either fully developed or in ensure we remain competitive in around the world.
We believe that our the course of development at all our all markets, we work to minimise our operations are in compliance with all sites and where appropriate through cost base and to invest in research local current regulations.
We seek to business interruption insurance.
apply higher than local legal standards in the less developed countries in which Acquisitions Product development we operate.
Specialist third-party experts The Group has grown partly through We develop and launch new have been contracted to provide acquisitions and through joint ventures.
technologies and products as part of training in best practice in China.
Such business combinations may our strategy to enhance the long-term Independent external auditors make involve risks that could have a material value of the Group.
However, such regular site visits to ensure compliance impact on the Groups future with local regulations and the Morgan development projects carry business performance and value.
Such risks risks, including reputational risk, abortive Environmental, Health and Safety are mitigated through representations expenditure and potential customer Good Management Practices Manual, and warranties and indemnities from claims which may have a material which has been issued to sites vendors, combined with extensive impact on the Group.
Safety Managers within each Division control regulations may limit our ability to transfer or share technology between are tasked with ensuring that the our sites in different countries.
practices outlined in the Manual are embedded in the manufacturing sites.
Product liability and consequential loss Litigation A large proportion of our products are From time to time and in the normal used in the manufacturing processes of our industrial customers.
If one of our course of business, we are subject to products or that of our customer does certain litigation, in particular in the not conform to agreed specications USA.
Provisions for the expected costs or is otherwise defective, we may and liabilities are set out in note 22 to the accounts.
If the liabilities arising be subject to claims arising from end-product defects, injury to individuals were signicantly to exceed the or other such claims.
This risk is greatly amounts provided for, there could mitigated by our quality assurance be a material financial affect on the value of the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 33
