Directors Report and Business Review O OU UT TL LO OO OK K F FO OR R 2 20 00 07 7 We believe the consumer environment will remain challenging.
Whilst we are still cautious for the year ahead we do expect to make progress in stabilising NEXT Retail like for like sales.
We are currently budgeting in the first half for NEXT Retail full price like for likes to be in the range -1% to -4%, a significant improvement on the -7.2% achieved last year.
NEXT remains highly cash generative and we will continue with our policy of buying back shares when it is earnings enhancing and in the interests of shareholders generally.
S Siim mo on n W Wo ollf fs so on n 2 22 2 M Ma ar rc ch h 2 20 00 07 7 R RIIS SK KS S & & U UN NC CE ER RT TA AIIN NT TIIE ES S The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
Executive directors and operational management are delegated with the task of implementing these processes and reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified by the Board include: B Bu us siin ne es ss s s st tr ra at te eg gy y d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t & & iim mp plle em me en nt ta at tiio on n If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not implement its strategies effectively, the business may suffer.
The Board needs to understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long term growth for the benefit of all NEXTs stakeholders.
K Ke ey y p pe er rs so on nn ne ell The success of NEXT depends in part on the continued service of its key management and technical personnel and on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees.
The retail sector is very competitive and NEXT staff are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
P Pr ro od du uc ct t d fide es siig gn n & & s se elle ec ct tiio on n The success of NEXT depends on providing exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing and homeware.
Success also depends upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and trends.
Many of NEXTs products represent discretionary purchases and demand for these products could decline in a recession or other period in which consumer confidence is negatively affected.
S Su up pp plliie er rs s & & s su up pp plly y c ch ha aiin n m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t NEXT is dependent on its supplier base to deliver products on time and to the quality standards it specifies.
Failure to develop its supplier base may produce an over-reliance on particular suppliers of product and services and reduce the competitiveness of its product offer.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the NEXT Code of Practice may increase reputational risk.
R Re et ta aiill s st to or re e n ne et tw wo or rk k & & D Diir re ec ct to or ry y c cu us st to om me er r b ba as se e Growth of NEXTs retail business is dependent upon increasing the floor space within its store network and customers spending more.
NEXT will continue to invest in new stores and refurbish its existing portfolio where its financial criteria are met.
Whilst the anticipated effect of sales deflection is factored into new store appraisals, there can be no assurance that the impact of new openings will not result in a greater deflection of sales from existing stores.
Successful development of new stores is dependent upon a number of factors including the identification of suitable properties, obtaining planning permissions and the negotiation of acceptable purchase or lease terms.
There is significant competition for desirable sites in the retail sector, which has resulted in increased rents and costs of operations, a trend which may continue.
