01-32 14 June 14 6 07 15:17 Page 27 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW PENNON GROUP Pennon Group Plc and South West Water Limited each have their own The future costs of defined benefit schemes are subject to a number of standard covenant packages which are included in the majority of the factors including: debt facilities.
The standard financial covenant package is based on gearing and interest cover covenants.
the returns achieved on pension fund investments movements in interest rates and inflation Redemption penalties included in the facility documentation can be invoked if debt facilities are redeemed early.
The redemption penalties pensioner longevity.
Insurance The Group manages property and third party risks by the purchase RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES of insurance policies.
Main insurance policies cover property, business interruption, public liability, environmental pollution and employers liability.
There are three tiers of insurance for most policies.
It may not be possible to continue to sustain the same level of The first tier is self-insurance in the form of a moderate deductible.
The earnings and growth of the Group as in the past second tier is covered by the Groups subsidiary, Peninsula Insurance Limited, which insures the layer of risk between the deductible and the There is a risk to shareholder value if the Group is not able to continue cover provided by external insurers.
The third tier of risk is placed with to grow its key businesses and produce sustainable earnings growth.
The Groups insurance brokers assist in This is dependent upon the correct strategies being pursued by strong sourcing appropriate insurance cover from insurance companies that and able management within the Group as well as on external factors.
The Group has maintained earnings and has successfully grown both South West Water and Viridor and intends to continue to create Financial covenants shareholder value through its strategic focus on water and waste water services and waste management.
The financial covenants included in the Groups debt facilities are monitored on a regular basis.
The financial covenants offered by the Pension costs may increase due to factors outside the Group include a provision to re-test the covenants applying to Frozen Groups control GAAP accounting standards.
This is to protect the Group from changes in accounting standards that may have a detrimental impact on the The Group has defined benefit pension schemes for existing staff of financial covenant testing methodology.
Pennon and South West Water, and for certain employees of Viridor.
Pennon Group set up a defined contribution scheme in July 2003 for new entrants to Viridor and employees from certain acquired waste companies.
Employer costs were reduced from 1 April 2006 through the closure of the existing defined benefit scheme to new entrants replaced by a new scheme with reduced benefits and an increase in employee contributions.
The last actuarial valuation of the Group defined benefit schemes was undertaken at 1 April 2004.
The Group pension schemes had net liabilities at 31 March 2007 of 41 million 2006 42 million.
Sound investment performance, an increase in the market interest rate used to discount liabilities, plus a further 9 million prepayment of employer contributions in September 2006 have been offset by an increase in liabilities of which 16 million arises from the use of an updated longevity assumption for pensioners.
A full actuarial valuation is being undertaken as at 1 April 2007.
The net liabilities after deferred tax represent circa 1.3% of the Groups total market capitalisation as at 31 March 2007.
