01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 10 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER Staff turnover is below the national average.
Job satisfaction is THE ENVIRONMENT supported by encouraging role changes wherever possible around In 2006 07, South West Water abstracted 177,000 Ml of raw water from the company to help employees gain a broad experience of business its 81 licensed abstraction locations which have a total licensed volume activities.
The company has introduced a number of Family Friendly of 384,000 Ml.
The abstraction locations are either reservoirs, rivers or policies to ensure that a proper balance is maintained between work groundwater aquifers.
Regular benchmarking of salary levels is carried out to maintain the companys competitive position in the job market.
The percentage population equivalent see Glossary, page 29, for The latest of an ongoing series of employee surveys was carried out description served by sanitary compliant waste water treatment works during 2006 and IIP re-accreditation was also confirmed.
A similar business-focused approach is now under way to reduce workThis high level of compliance is a major contributor to the region related ill health.
Although the company acknowledges that much still having a significant proportion of the finest bathing waters, beaches needs to be done to improve health at work, at a major health and rivers in the UK.
In 2006, all the regions 144 bathing waters conference hosted by the TUC during the year, South West Water was achieved the EU mandatory standard 99% in 2005 and 92% the only private sector organisation to be cited by the Minister with achieved the even more stringent guideline standard 89% in 2005. responsibility for Health and Safety as effectively integrating ethical, commercial and statutory objectives.
South West Waters region also has the highest percentage length of high quality rivers in England.
Occupational health and safety are key elements of South West Waters risk management and internal control processes.
Following privatisation, the company set out to build an occupational health INCIDENTS AND PROSECUTIONS and safety culture throughout its supply chain in partnership with The number of incidents classified by the EA as Category Two stakeholders including trade unions, regulators, other water significant pollution incidents in 2006 07 was five, but only four companies and construction partners.
South West Waters reportable were deemed non-compliant.
This compares with three in 2005 06. accident rate is an important KPI and is set out below for the five year period 2002 to 2006.
It was 11 accidents per 1,000 employees During the year, the company was convicted on seven occasions for in 2006 compared with 12.56 per 1,000 employees in 2005. environmental offences and fined a total of 30,000 compared with Whilst the significant reduction achieved in recent years has largely two convictions and 6,000 in fines in 2005 06.
The company is been maintained, the company continues to pursue initiatives to taking action to reduce incidents which lead to prosecution.
improve the health and safety of its employees.
RIDDOR see Glossary, page 29, for description incident rates per 1,000 employees RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 18 16 14 12 Price controls over the revenue of the companys regulated 10 business could adversely affect profitability 8 6 The outcome of Ofwats future Price Determinations may adversely 4 affect South West Water for a number of reasons including an 2 inadequate cost of capital allowance.
There is also a risk that 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 regulatory assumptions concerning operating expenses, required capital expenditure and revenue forecasts may prove to be South West Water continues to play a major role in Clear Water 2010, unrealistic.
However, South West Water has met Ofwats efficiency a 10 year occupational health programme for the water industry.
expectations in the last two Periodic Review periods K2 and K3 and Independently verified data gathered across the industry has is on track to meet them in K4.
identified the industrys greatest work-related challenges as stress and musculo-skeletal disorders.
Failure to deliver the capital investment programme could adversely affect profitability An essential aspect of South West Waters activities with regard to South West Water requires significant capital for additions and the safety, health, welfare and well-being of its own workers is the replacement of plant and equipment for its operations.
The price limits extensive provision of training in skills acquisition and health and set by Ofwat for the K4 period take into account the level of expected safety, thus ensuring that employees have the knowledge and capital expenditure and associated funding costs.
In the event of expertise to undertake their jobs in a well-motivated, contented under-performance, the water regulator could intervene to lower and productive manner.
10 Number 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 11 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER The company may be unable to raise sufficient funds to In addition, South West Water is required to obtain various finance its functions environmental permissions from regulatory agencies for its operations.
South West Water endeavours to comply with Historically, the Group has financed expenditure from cash flows all regulatory standards but cannot guarantee that it will be in from operations and debt financing.
In setting price limits, the total compliance with them at all times.
water regulator has a duty to ensure that a company can finance its functions.
There can be no assurance that cash flows from Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change operations will not decline or that additional debt financing or frequently.
These laws and their enforcement have tended to other sources of capital would be available to meet these become more stringent over time.
South West Water budgets for requirements.
However, the Groups policy is to ensure that it has future capital and operating expenditures to achieve compliance committed facilities available for at least 12 months anticipated with current and known future changes in law and regulations.
However, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will raise South West Waters capital and operating If South West Water was unable to secure the anticipated capital expenditures by requiring modifications to its assets.
It is also efficiencies associated with the capital programme, or the possible that future legislation will impose constraints on existing programme falls behind schedule for other reasons, the profitability water abstractions requiring South West Water to source alternative of the Group may suffer.
The water regulator may factor such failure water supplies.
These costs are recoverable in part or in whole into future price reviews.
through the regulatory process of setting appropriate future price limits.
In the event of these being significant, South West Water Failure to deliver operating cost savings implicit in the could apply to Ofwat for a revision of its price limits through an regulatory review could adversely affect profitability Interim Determination.
Operating cost savings to be achieved during the current K4 period are implicit in the regulatory review.
In line with South West Waters In addition, the Groups ability to meet regulatory and track record, the Board remains confident of delivering the assumed environmental performance standards could be adversely affected.
However, should operational performance This could result in the potential for fines or other sanctions deteriorate, the Groups profitability could suffer and the water imposed by either the water regulator or the courts, including regulator could seek to impose higher efficiency targets as part of ultimately the loss of South West Waters Licence.
The company has future price reviews.
a track record of delivering its capital programme in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Environmental regulations and quality standards could increase the companys costs and adversely affect profitability Various environmental and consumer protection, health and safety laws and regulations govern the companys waste water and water distribution businesses.
These laws and regulations establish, amongst other things, quality standards for drinking water, effluent treatment including sewage sludge disposal and discharges into the environment.
All these affect South West Waters operations.
11 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 22:17 Page 12 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER Contamination of water supplies could adversely affect Non-recovery of debt is therefore a risk to the Group and may profitability cause the Groups profitability to suffer.
Allowance is made by Ofwat in the Determination for its estimate of debt deemed to be Water supplies may be subject to contamination, which may irrecoverable but there can be no assurance that the amount emanate from naturally occurring compounds and pollution allowed by the water regulator is adequate.
In addition to resulting from man-made sources.
If one or more of the existing strategies, South West Water is implementing new companys water supplies becomes contaminated and the initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, including the company is unable to substitute a supply or to treat adequately use of property charging orders.
Provision was made in the the contaminated water source, there may be an adverse effect last Periodic Review for companies to make an application on its reputation, operating results and financial position.
for an Interim Determination in the event of bad debts being Some or all of the remedial costs may be recoverable through significantly above the amount allowed by the water regulator.
South West Water could also be held liable for human exposure to hazardous substances in its water Energy cost pressures supplies or other environmental damage.
Energy costs are the second highest component of South West The Group maintains insurance policies in relation to these risks, Waters operating costs.
A proportion of recent increases was although there can be no assurance that all or any of the costs recognised and allowed for by Ofwat in the last price associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage Determination.
However, any additional costs will adversely will continue to be available in the future.
Non-recovery of customer debt could adversely affect South West Water mitigates rising energy costs through profitability careful system operation, by maximising renewable energy generation and by purchasing all forms of energy in the most The company is responsible for the billing, cash collection and efficient way.
debt management activities for around 760,000 domestic and business water and waste water customers.
The Water Industry Water resource adequacy Act 1997 prohibits the disconnection of a domestic water supply for non-payment.
A water shortage due to a severe drought could reduce the water supply available to customers, which could have a material impact on the profitability of South West Water.
The company has a number of schemes in place to maintain water resources such as pumped storage for certain reservoirs and promotes conservation measures.
12 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 13 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER In particular, South West Water prepares a new Water Resources Plan The current rate of customers opting to change is currently every five years and reviews it annually for a range of climate change higher than the estimates made at the last Periodic Review.
The Water Resource Plan indicates that no new This could have an adverse impact on the companys revenues reservoirs are required before the planning horizon of 2030.
An Interim Determination may be used to fully or investment is needed to develop the overall trunk main infrastructure, partially recover revenue losses if they exceed the prescribed to expand treatment capacity and to enhance certain pumped materiality threshold.
At the end of March 2007, reservoir storage levels were 92.0% compared with 82.7% in March 2006.
Operational failures A failure of the equipment operated by South West Water could lead to the escape of water or waste water including sewage effluent and result in damage to third party property or personal injury.
In such circumstances, South West Water may incur liability to those third parties.
South West Water could also be prosecuted by the EA or DWI and or be required to undertake costly upgrades.
Meter option take-up Higher than national average water and sewerage charges exist within the South West Water area.
This has encouraged many customers to change from an unmeasured rateable value based charging system to a payment based on volume of water used as measured by a meter.
Properties constructed since 1989 do not have a rateable value assessment and are therefore charged by the volume of water used.
Most customers in properties built prior to 1989 can choose to opt for metered charges.
In doing so they have an option to switch back to rateable value payment within 12 months of meter installation.
The rate at which customers elect to switch to metered charges is estimated at each Periodic Review.
