01-32 14 June:01-32 14 June 15 6 07 13:16 Page 19 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW VIRIDOR Viridors reportable accident rate per 1,000 employees is an SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES important KPI and is set out below for the five year period 2002 to 2006.
Landfill and many other facilities require waste management licences Despite comparing favourably with industry averages, Viridors focus or PPC permits, issued and monitored by the EA.
Viridor maintains a positive working relationship with the EA, proactively liaising on, and on health and safety improvement and performance remains strong.
managing issues at, both a site-specific and strategic level.
The company has recruited additional health and safety professionals during the year and continues to raise the level of training and A good neighbour policy is implemented at all facilities managed by support available to its staff.
Viridor with local liaison groups at most major sites consisting of RIDDOR see Glossary, page 29, for description locally elected representatives of the community meeting regularly to incident rates per 1,000 employees be consulted about the companys plans and operating procedures.
27.5 Liaison groups also include representatives of the EA, the relevant planning authority and other key local stakeholders.
25.0 22.5 KEY CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER ARRANGEMENTS 20.0 17.5 Local authorities are the largest single customer group accounting in total for 30% of revenue.
No individual authority accounts for more 15.0 than 4%.
Viridors ROC contracts account for 5% of revenue.
12.5 10.0 No supplier accounts for more than 1% of Viridors revenue.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 The company sources from competitive markets.
Regrettably the company suffered its first health and safety prosecutions during 2006.
An accident at Beddington Landfill near RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Croydon led to a prosecution under the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999, for the failure to conduct an Increases in landfill costs may not be recovered through price increases adequate risk assessment.
The company was fined 2,500 plus costs.
Following an accident in 2004 where two employees were struck by a The raising of environmental standards is leading to a gradual increase in wheel loading shovel, the company was fined 100,000 for breaches landfill costs in general.
Particular areas of cost increases include site of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, in that it did not engineering which results in increased depreciation, restoration and adequately have in place systems and procedures to protect the health aftercare costs see below, leachate management, landfill gas and safety of its employees at Bargeddie in Glasgow.
The company has management and general site management.
Companies such as Viridor learnt key lessons from these incidents and continues to strive to raise with landfills engineered to modern standards and which have good health and safety awareness and improve its performance.
environmental control systems, should incur lower than average increases in costs.
However, there remains a risk that rising standards may generate ENVIRONMENT higher treatment and disposal costs than currently assumed.
The most significant positive environmental impacts of Viridors operations arise from the safe and efficient disposal of societys waste Landfill sites are filled and restored on a cell by cell basis.
Final restoration, materials, increased resource and energy efficiency from its recycling in accordance with the planning permission, and aftercare of the site, and recovery operations, the generation of renewable energy from takes place after site closure.
The costs related to aftercare are expected non-fossil fuels and the restoration of despoiled landscapes such as to continue for around 30 years post closure.
These costs are best disused mineral workings through the controlled deposit of waste estimates based on Viridors own extensive experience and they are materials.
Significant negative impacts include transportation and updated at each stage of the capital expenditure programme.
associated emissions, methane production where not harnessed for Nevertheless, as with any estimate of future costs, there is a risk that energy generation or flared, leachate production and potential local circumstances may change which may affect the level of those costs.
impacts such as dust, noise, litter and odour.
Viridor developed its own EMS in the early 1990s recognising the growing importance of measuring and monitoring the environmental impact of its operations.
This has allowed targets to be set and met to maximise positive environmental impacts and reduce negative impacts, resulting in continuous improvement in environmental performance.
Viridor was the first UK waste company to achieve ISO 14001 accreditation across all major operational sites and has 50 accredited centres covering 138 operational facilities as at 31 March 2007.
It has also played a leading role in developing and reporting against the environmental performance indicators for the waste industry as promoted by the Green Alliance.
The amount of waste recycled by the company increased over the year to 1.1 million tonnes 0.9 million tonnes in 2005 06.
19 Number 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 23:47 Page 20 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW VIRIDOR The costs are charged on a landfill usage basis, i. e. per tonne input.
PPC permits often impose higher standards and costs This is calculated by dividing the total expected cost by the number of in general.
Any landfills that fail to obtain a PPC permit would need to tonnes expected to be input into the site up to its closure.
This number be subject to a closure plan with the EA or SEPA.
is derived from the remaining void space, as estimated by external The net result of this is that it is expected that after a transitional period, consultants, and estimated compaction rates tonnes per cubic metre.
the average technical and operational standards of landfill in the UK will These are best estimates, based on current information, which are improve and it is possible that the number of landfills may decrease.
However, to the extent that tonnages are over or underestimated, there is a risk that the amount provided may be too All but one of Viridors operational landfills have achieved PPC permits, high or low.
though in some cases we are appealing against certain of the conditions proposed, which might have cost or other implications for Municipal waste contracts typically last for a number of years.
The operational landfill which has not yet received a PPC usually have price increases under formulae related to inflation as permit is currently due to close in two years time.
Viridor is in the measured by the RPI in the UK and in some cases take into account process of applying for a PPC permit for one new landfill and whilst it is specific legislative or technical changes.
Prices for other types of waste expected that this application will be successful, the company cannot depend more on local markets and competitive conditions.
Viridors prejudge the regulators conclusions.
experience over several years is that prices in general have risen fast enough at least to cover cost increases in the areas where it operates.
Under both waste management licences and PPC permits, landfills There is a risk that landfill prices may not rise sufficiently in all require expenditure on restoration when the site is closed and locations to recover recent and projected cost increases.
subsequently on aftercare maintenance, supervision, monitoring and management of gas and leachate levels long after the landfilling The UK Governments Waste Strategy, stemming from the Landfill activities have ceased.
The EA or SEPA will only grant a full or partial Directive, may lead to a reduction in volumes of waste being PPC permit or waste management licence surrender once it is satisfied disposed to landfill.
The Governments Waste Strategy is currently that the landfill is inert and no longer poses any environmental under review and includes targets for diversion of municipal waste risk.
There may still be a risk of liability arising from any residual from landfill and increases in landfill tax as previously announced contamination following the surrender of the PPC permit.
Landfill Viridor focuses on the landfill disposal of municipal, industrial and licences or permits cannot be surrendered during the aftercare period.
commercial, construction and demolition waste.
Of this, around 30% or 20 million tonnes of the UK total for these waste streams is Pricing and other risks relating to renewable energy municipal of which approximately two thirds is biodegradable Renewable energy prices under the current ROCs scheme are primarily a municipal waste BMW.
These figures are based on estimates from function of the underlying brown energy price and the premium DEFRA, the EA, SEPA and HM Revenue & Customs.
achieved from the sale of ROCs.
Existing Government initiatives are having an impact and the amount Underlying brown energy prices rose significantly in 2006 07 of municipal waste being disposed to landfill is now declining.
reflecting the general energy supply demand position in the UK and Assuming the EU Landfill Directive targets are met, the total amount of worldwide.
Brown energy prices have fallen back significantly to date municipal solid waste MSW which will be landfilled from 2020 will be in 2007 08 and will affect Viridor's performance in the current year as, around 10 million tonnes per annum depending on the precise in line with its current policy, it has sold energy one year ahead.
If there is no change in other waste Brown energy prices will continue to be determined by the world and streams, this would still leave a substantial landfill market in 2020.
UK energy market and may go down as well as up.
Any changes in underlying energy prices will directly affect Viridors revenues when its This should be seen in the context of an EA estimate of a current sales contracts come up for renewal.
consented landfill capacity UK-wide of around six years.
Viridor has seen its underlying landfill volumes holding steady, perhaps Without a pricing mechanism such as ROCs, further investment in reflecting an increase in its share of the landfill market.
However, the renewables energy generation would not generally be economic.
The Government has made a strong commitment to renewables which are combined effect of the various Government measures is likely to reduce key to meeting the long-term carbon reduction strategy set out in the the total amount of waste being landfilled in the UK in the future.
energy white paper and the UKs targets for carbon dioxide reductions under the Kyoto Protocol.
Renewables are also important in minimising Not all landfills may meet the standards of the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive and the Landfill Directive, or the UKs increasing reliance on imported energy.
Nevertheless, there remains a risk that the Government may change the pricing mechanism.
requirements may be imposed which would impact on the economics of landfill In its recent consultation on the ROCs regime, the Government Landfills and other industrial processes in the UK are subject to a concluded that new landfill gas schemes starting from 2009 onwards permitting regime pursuant to the Pollution Prevention and Control will have reduced eligibility for ROCs.
It is now consulting further on England and Wales Regulations 2000 PPC Regulations.
Existing the details of this proposal.
However, this is not expected to affect landfills opened before July 2001 operated under waste management Viridors existing schemes which are likely to form the bulk of licences but now require a PPC permit granted under the PPC its output.
20 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:37 Page 21 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW VIRIDOR The value of ROCs is increased by the sharing of the buy-out price monies Risks associated with long-term integrated contracts among holders of ROCs.
The value of a ROC depends on the supply of Any long-term integrated contract has a range of risks associated renewable electricity relative to the UK's annual increasing targets.
Indeed, risk transfer is a key part of Government PFI large amounts of renewable energy generating capacity gained planning procurement guidelines.
The risks include waste volumes and mix, permission and commenced operations there is a risk that the value of a planning technology, input costs and recyclate prices.
The value of ROCs is also dependent on the financial assessment of the risks and apportionment of them between client, strength of those suppliers who opt to pay the buy-out price.
There is a main contractor, technology and equipment suppliers, and sub risk that the insolvency of a licensed electricity supplier could lead to a contractors is a key part of the process of bidding and finalising drop in the value of the ROCs which Viridor sells to licensed suppliers.
A landfill gas project must be able to collect and burn sufficient gas to As noted above the Viridor Laing joint venture is preferred bidder for produce electricity.
Ultimately, the volume of gas generated will depend the Greater Manchester PFI.
Final contractual negotiations are not on the amount and composition of the waste landfilled.
For example, as yet complete.
the amount of BMW diverted away from landfill is increased in the future in accordance with the EU Landfill Directive obligations, the total Viridor seeks to protect itself against the risks in such contracts in the biodegradable component of the waste going to landfill will reduce, first instance by doing extensive due diligence, typically using a affecting the volumes of landfill gas produced.
It is therefore possible combination of external advisers and in-house experts, so that risks that the gas obtained will not be available either in the amounts or of the are correctly identified.
calorific value required to make a project cost effective.
Viridor will then seek to protect itself against the risks identified through contractual documentation with its client, subcontractors Lakeside EfW construction and technical risks and sub-suppliers.
The degree it does so depends of course on the other The Lakeside joint venture involves building a 400kt waste to energy parties attitude to risk transfer and on the specific commercial situation.
plant at a cost of circa 160 million and operating it for 25 years.
86% of the project is funded by non-recourse bank debt which limits the risk to To the degree that Viridor is not able to or chooses not to cover off all Pennon Group.
The remainder is funded by the joint venture, of which the risks identified in the contractual documentation, then it includes in Viridor has 50% of the equity.
its price an assessment of a reasonable return for accepting such risks.
Viridor takes a robust approach on this issue.
If it cannot cover off the The plant is a modern conventional waste to energy facility.
As a result risks satisfactorily or cannot get a reasonable commercial return for of a competitive procurement procedure it is being supplied by the taking such risks, its policy is to accept the loss of such a contract rather Japanese consortium Itochu Takuma.
There is a significant number of than win it on unsatisfactory terms.
similar plants operating successfully worldwide.
Whilst Viridors policy on such risks is careful and robust, there It is being supplied in accordance with a fixed price contract which remains a risk that Viridors commercial was drawn up with the assistance of specialist external consultants.
assessment will not be satisfactory and Nevertheless, as with any major infrastructure project, unforeseen the results from such contracts circumstances may arise which may affect the construction process.
Efficiencies and output of the plant will be affected by the precise calorific value of the waste throughput.
The plant is well proven and it is a robust conventional technology designed to take the currently projected waste mix.
Nevertheless, if the mix of the waste changes significantly over the next 25 years, there may be some impact on efficiencies and output.
The current planning regime may restrict the availability of future waste treatment facilities Achievement of the Governments targets for waste management is critically dependent on the planning system delivering sufficient waste treatment facilities.
Obtaining planning permission for any type of waste treatment facility is difficult and will represent a major challenge for the waste management industry.
Viridor may be unable to recruit retain adequate numbers of staff with the necessary skills Good quality staff with the required technical skills and certification are essential in the waste industry.
Viridor recognises that there is a risk of losing staff to competitors and seeks to address this by its employment policies.
