Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Board recognises that any commercial opportunity 3.
Commercial risks brings with it a degree of risk and, like any business, Arriva Franchise tender acquisition costing and revenue forecasting must manage a range of risks in the course of its activities.
Errors or inaccurate assumptions in tenders or acquisitions An impact assessment of the scale and probability of the represent a risk to the business.
A number of procedures are in principal risks affecting the business is reviewed annually.
place to mitigate the risk.
As part of the ongoing programme of risk assessment and The Board monitors all material new franchise, tender and management, the following actual and potential risks have acquisition submissions across the groups operations, whilst been identified as those which the directors believe could have the executive directors review other bids on an ongoing basis a material impact on the long-term value generation of the in line with delegated authority limits.
The factors described below are not intended to form a are in use across the business.
Significant bus and train tender definitive list of all risks and uncertainties.
contracts are compared with current experience to identify weaknesses and potential improvements in the tender process.
Market risks Post-investment appraisals are carried out through quarterly Changes in national public transport budgets business review meetings.
A considerable proportion of the groups income is derived directly or indirectly from national public transport budgets.
One of the most significant set of assumptions which may be Changes in these budgets can have positive or negative required in constructing a franchise bid relates to general impacts on the groups prospects.
The group continues to economic factors influencing the market concerned.
Arrivas monitor national public transport budgetary policies in the balanced portfolio of operations, between bus and rail, and countries where it operates, and ensures it is strategically between different countries, minimises its exposure to any aware in order to understand possible changes and react to downturn in any individual market sector.
The revenue risk them in a timely fashion.
associated with any potential loss of consumer demand from the travelling public is mitigated by the substantial proportion of 2.
Operational risks the groups revenues which flow from non-passenger sources Meeting health, safety and environmental standards see page 8 - Spreading our net.
The Board recognises the importance to the business, as a public transport operator, of maintaining high standards and Most tendered net cost contracts see page 5 - Hold on tight the consequences of failing to do so.
A Safety Committee of require the operator to deliver specified services whilst retaining the Board oversees the groups safety policy and the the income from passengers.
In contracts where passenger arrangements of its implementation and reporting see page 34 income represents a significant proportion of total revenue, the - Corporate Responsibility section.
group is exposed to the risk of passenger revenue being higher or lower than anticipated.
Historically, passenger revenue Mobilisation of large new rail franchises growth is highly correlated with growth in local economies.
The We aim to use the knowledge gained in the successful rail recently started UK CrossCountry rail contract is a particularly mobilisation processes we have been involved in to date for other large contract with these characteristics: Arriva is committed to new rail franchises won by the group.
The mobilisation of the reducing government financial support on this franchise to CrossCountry contract from November 2007 went smoothly, almost zero before the end of the franchise in 2016.
To deliver benefiting from our previous experience both in the UK and anticipated returns, over eight per cent annual revenue growth abroad.
in real terms will be required, a considerable proportion of which is dependent on economic growth.
However, in the fourth year of the franchise, the financial risk is partially mitigated by a revenue risk sharing mechanism in the contract.
32 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 2007 The actual conditions are complex but the principal financial arrangements are: Percentage shortfall on Revenue target revenue support 0 2% Nil 2 6% 50% 6% and higher 80% These risk mitigating factors are mirrored by potential payments to the UK Government when targeted revenue is exceeded.
Throughout the franchise, revenue support may also be available if the dominant cause of a qualifying revenue shortfall is a Force Majeure event, such as severe flooding.
Acquisitions Arriva has clearly defined guidelines for due diligence work and internal reporting on potential acquisitions, which require the monitoring of such items by the executive directors subject to delegated authority limits.
Sale and Purchase Agreements include price adjustment mechanisms and warranties as appropriate.
Other risks As detailed on pages 28 to 29 in the Financial Review, the groups Changes in transport legislation and or regulation financial risks are managed by the group treasury function in This is a risk that faces Arriva in every country in which it accordance with a formal Board approved treasury policy.
Interest rate risk The group has procedures in place to ensure effective Fluctuations in interest rates are managed through the use of liaison with appropriate national and European Union interest rate derivatives and fixed rate debt.
officials and monitoring of developments in this area for timely reporting to senior management.
Commodity risk The groups policy is to maintain fuel price fixes at least 12 to In the UK, the Government is currently planning 15 months ahead, on a rolling basis.
changes to transport legislation with an expected implementation date in late 2008 or early 2009.
The Currency translation risk Government is also considering amendments to the The group policy on foreign exchange exposure is that the risk Bus Service Operators Grant.
These planned and of translating non UK assets and liabilities into pounds sterling potential changes could have significant impact on the should be reduced to insignificant levels.
Retirement benefit obligations Arriva, alongside other UK operators, is monitoring the Increased retirement benefit obligations may require additional development of legislation in this area and representing contributions to be made by companies to state or other the best long-term interests of the industry.
Such contributions could have a material impact on the group.
We perform regular pension strategy reviews with Succession planning for key managerial positions the groups pension advisors, and monitor developments in Arriva is a fast-growing company in many markets.
The group pension schemes and state schemes where we operate.
group has a stable senior management population but any inability to fill a significant proportion of senior vacancies could have an adverse impact on the groups future development.
Succession planning is already in place, as is a process for identifying emerging management talent.
We are developing an executive development programme.
