Risk Riskmanagement a strong credit rating so maturing short-term debt may be Our risk management framework is designed to manage risks refinanced as it falls due.
Cash balances are invested in shortthat may have a material impact on the Groups ability to meet term deposits such that they are readily available to settle its strategic corporate objectives rather than fully mitigate all the short-term liabilities or to fund capital additions.
risks which the business may face.
The Group is not in control Interestraterisk of all risks that are external to the Group and therefore beyond The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of its control.
interest and then employs derivative financial instruments The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk such as interest rate swaps to generate the desired interest management framework and has a formal policy for ensuring rate profile and to manage the Groups exposure to interest that the principal business risks faced by the Group are rate fluctuations.
reviewed on a quarterly basis and for ensuring that these The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such risks are managed appropriately on an on-going basis.
that 99.7% of all loans as at the year end date were either at The Groups risk framework aims to identify and evaluate risks fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap based on probability of occurrence and impact on the Group arrangements, thereby largely eliminating the Groups exposure and then monitor the efficiency of internal controls to ensure to changes in interest rate.
Dedicated individuals across Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use the business have been nominated as Risk Owners and they of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments are responsible for risk management activities including exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk such that the compliance and property risks, health and safety risks and Group would not benefit from falls in interest rate and would Group-wide corporate level risks.
be exposed to unplanned costs should debt or derivative The Internal Audit and Risk Management team provide financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
assurance to the Board on the maintenance of the Group Pensions risk register, controls surrounding identified risks and the The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes management of these risks by the Executive Management the InnSpired and Pubmaster schemes having been merged team.
The Audit Committee are responsible for annually in the year all of which are closed to new members.
As at the reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management framework.
year end date the three schemes together had obligations of  373m and assets of 380m, resulting in a net asset of 7m, Financialrisks compared to a liability of 25m as reported at August 2006.
Punch is exposed to a variety of financial and market based  risks, including exposure to fluctuating interest rates, changing Informationsystems,  economic conditions, technological and industry based risks, The Group is reliant on information systems and technology competitive environment and regulatory changes, which either for communication, order capture, distribution, accounting singularly or collectively may affect revenue, cost structure or and reporting and many of its internal controls.
As with all value of assets within the business, and all of which are difficult organisations, the Group is open to disaster or failure of these to quantify.
systems causing possible disruption to the business.
Steps have The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are been put in place to mitigate these risks by improving internal interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Policies with respect to these controls surrounding systems and having an up to date and fully risks are described below.
There is no currency exposure as all tested business continuity plan for all business critical systems.
material transactions and financial instruments are in sterling.
 The Group has no exposure to equity securities or commodity The Group is reliant on a number of key suppliers and price risk and it is the Groups policy that no speculative trading distributors to ensure continuous supply of drink, food and in financial instruments is undertaken.
There are no significant other services into our pubs.
The Group is exposed to the risk concentrations of credit risk within the Group of interruption or failure of suppliers or distributors resulting Liquidityrisk in products not being delivered on time or to the standard The Groups funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing expected.
The Group attempts to mitigate this risk by regularly methods offering flexibility and cost effectiveness to match reviewing the disaster recovery plans of its key distributors and the requirements of the Group.
The Group is primarily financed by ensuring that substitute suppliers or products could be used by secured loan notes, with approximately 93% of the capital if required.
balance on these loan notes being repayable after more than Productquality 5 years.
The Group is exposed to product quality risks in relation to The Board continues to review alternative sources of finance.
its drink and food, especially within the managed business.
The Groups objective is to smooth the debt maturity profile, Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to maintain is maintained wherever possible and that all drink products 20 www.
com purchased by the Group as well as food products within our managed estate are fully traceable.
The Group also has a formal food accreditation process based on a programme of robust supplier audits by an external food assurance company.
A crisis management process exists to ensure that products can be recalled quickly if required.
A policy of providing health and safety and food safety training to all managed pubs as well as food safety advice to our leased business is in place.
Threatstoourconcepts Anincidentmayoccur,  the reputation of one of the managed pub concepts.
This could affect the ability of the concept to attract future customers or negatively impact the ability of that concept to generate future income.
 The Group occasionally makes material acquisitions or enters into joint venture agreements.
There is a risk that due diligence activities or integration plans prepared by the Group may not highlight all potential problems and that failure to do so may have an impact on the Groups ability to meet its objectives for the transaction in the future.
The management team aim to mitigate this risk by ensuring sufficient due diligence is performed, a project team works closely with the new business and that performance is closely monitored from the outset.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 21
