Principal risks 88 Principal risks The key risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from the highly competitive and rapidly changing nature of our markets The key risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from their electronic delivery platforms and the highly competitive and rapidly changing networks experience a significant failure, nature of our markets, the increasingly interruption, or security breach.
technological nature of our products and services, the international nature of our Our products and services are largely operations, and legal and regulatory comprised of intellectual property uncertainties.
Certain businesses could also content delivered through a variety of be affected by the impact on publicly funded media.
We rely on trademark, customers of changes in funding and by copyright, patent and other intellectual cyclical pressures on advertising and property laws to establish and protect promotional spending or through information our proprietary rights in these products becoming publicly available for free.
However, there is a risk Elsevier has an established risk management that our proprietary rights could procedure that is embedded into the operations be challenged, limited, invalidated of the businesses based on the framework in or circumvented.
internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway New organisational and operational Commission COSO, and is reviewed by structures are being developed with the Audit Committees and Boards.
Important increased focus on outsourcing and specific risks that have been identified and are offshoring functions.
The failure of third being addressed include: parties to whom we have outsourced could adversely affect our reputation and Reed Elseviers businesses are financial condition.
dependent on the continued acceptance by our customers of our products and We operate a number of pension services and the prices which we charge schemes around the world, the largest for them.
We cannot predict whether schemes being of the defined benefit there will be changes in the future which type in the UK, the US and the will affect the acceptability of products, Netherlands.
The assets and obligations services and prices to our customers.
associated with defined benefit pension schemes are particularly sensitive to We are investing significant amounts to changes in the market values of assets develop and promote electronic products and the market related assumptions and platforms.
The provision of these used to value scheme liabilities.
products and services is very competitive and is to some extent subject to factors Our businesses operate in over 100 outside our control such as competition locations worldwide and our earnings from new technologies and changes in are subject to taxation in many differing regulation.
There is no assurance jurisdictions and at differing rates.
We that this investment will produce seek to organise our affairs in a tax satisfactory long term returns.
efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Reed Elseviers businesses are However, tax laws that apply to Reed increasingly dependent on electronic Elsevier businesses may be amended by platforms and networks, primarily the the relevant authorities.
Such internet, for delivery of products and amendments, or their application to services.
Although plans and procedures Reed Elsevier businesses, could are in place to reduce such risks, our adversely affect our reported results.
businesses could be adversely affected if Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 89 The Reed Elsevier combined financial In addition to the risks described above, statements are expressed in pounds sterling further information on risks and how they are and are, therefore, subject to movements addressed is provided elsewhere in the in exchange rates on the translation of the Annual Reports and Financial Statements: financial information of businesses whose operational currencies are other than the Operating and Financial Review and sterling.
The United States is our most Description of Business contains important market and, accordingly, discussion of strategic, competitive, significant fluctuations in the US dollar economic, legal and regulatory, exchange rate could significantly affect technological and customer risks.
the Corporate Responsibility report We recognise that Reed Elsevier and its contains discussion of risks relating to businesses have a direct impact on the people, the environment and customers.
environment, principally through the use of energy and water and waste generation and note 6 to the combined financial in our supply chain through paper use and statements contains further information print and production technologies.
We are on risks associated with defined benefit committed to reducing these impacts, pension schemes.
whenever possible, by limiting resource use and by efficiently employing sustainable the Chief Financial Officers report materials and technologies.
We require our contains a discussion of treasury, suppliers and contractors to meet the same liquidity, interest rate and foreign objectives.
We seek to ensure that Reed currency risks.
Elseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental legislation and, the report on Structure and Corporate accordingly, whilst environmental issues Governance contains a discussion on are important, we do not consider that they risks relating to financial reporting.
constitute a significant risk for Reed Elsevier.
