Risk factors 10 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp10-11 5 3 08 23:52 Page 10 Risk factors The following describes some of the risks that could affect Rio Tinto.
Further discussion can be found under, There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, Exchange rates, reporting currencies and currency exposure on currently believed to be immaterial, could turn out to be material.
These risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Exploration and new projects They should also be considered in connection with any forward The Group seeks to identify new mining properties through an looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement active exploration programme.
The Group has also undertaken the on page 13. development or expansion of other major operations.
There is no Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to maximise long guarantee, however, that such expenditure will be recouped or that term shareholder value through responsible and sustainable existing ore reserves will be replaced.
Failure to do so could have a investment in mining and related assets.
The directors recognise material and adverse impact on the Groups financial results and that creating shareholder value is the reward for taking and prospects.
In particular, Rio Tinto has commenced or recommenced accepting risk.
exploration for and development of new projects in a number of new The directors have established a process for identifying, countries which may increase risks around land and resource tenure.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Group develops new mining properties and expands its The following highlight the Groups exposure to risk without existing operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
explaining how these exposures are managed and mitigated or how Unanticipated delays and project execution complications along some risks are also potential opportunities.
with increasing regulatory, environmental and social approvals can result in significant increases in construction costs and or Acquisitions significant delays in construction.
These increases could materially The Group has grown partly through the acquisition of other and adversely affect the economics of a project and, consequently, businesses and most notably through the acquisition of Alcan Inc. the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
for US$38 billion during 2007. Business combinations commonly entail a number of risks and Rio Tinto cannot be sure that Energy cost and supply management will be able to effectively integrate businesses acquired The Groups operations are energy intensive and, as a result, the or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated.
Failure to do Groups costs and earnings could be adversely affected by rising so could have a material and adverse impact on the Groups costs, energy costs or by energy supply interruptions.
The following factors earnings and cash flows.
Furthermore, the Group may, under the could materially adversely affect the Groups energy position: the terms of the acquisition, be liable for the past acts or omissions of unavailability of energy or fuel due to a variety of reasons including the acquired businesses in circumstances where the price paid does fluctuations in climate, significant increases in costs of supplied not adequately reflect the eventual cost of these liabilities.
electricity or fuel, interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure or other causes, and the inability to extend contracts for the Divestments supply of energy on economical terms.
Following the acquisition of Alcan the Group undertook a strategic review which has highlighted approximately US$30 billion of Greenhouse gas emissions potential divestments and has announced a target of US$15 billion.
Rio Tintos smelting and mineral processing operations are energy The Group intends to explore options for the sale of a shortlist of intensive and depend heavily on coal, oil, diesel and gas.
Increasing assets but any sales would be value driven and dependent on price.
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the progressive The amount and timing of sale proceeds that might eventually be introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms, in numerous realised is subject to considerable uncertainty and the Group cannot jurisdictions in which the Group operates could adversely impact anticipate by when and by how much its borrowings might be access to, and cost of, the Groups energy supply.
greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Groups major customers could also have an adverse effect on the demand for the Economic conditions Groups products.
Commodity prices, and demand for the Groups products, are cyclical and influenced strongly by world economic growth, Interest rate fluctuations particularly that in the US and Asia.
The Groups normal policy is to Increases in benchmark interest rates will likely increase the interest sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Commodity prices can cost associated with the Groups debt and will increase the cost of fluctuate widely and could have a material and adverse impact on future borrowings, which could harm the Groups earnings and the Groups asset values, revenues, earnings and cash flows.
The strong underlying economic conditions and commodity prices have led to a rapid growth in demand for technical skills in Ore reserve estimates mining, metallurgy and geological sciences, and for materials and There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore supplies related to the mining industry, causing skills and materials reserves and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation shortages.
The retention of skilled employees, the recruitment of may change significantly when new information becomes available.
new staff and the purchasing of materials and supplies may lead to Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, increased costs, interruptions to existing operations and to delays in production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status new projects.
of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Further discussion can be found on page 14, Business Such changes in reserves could impact on depreciation and environment, markets and regulations, and on page 55, commodity amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping prices.
calculations and provisions for close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
Further discussion can be found Exchange rates under Ore reserve estimates on page 57.
The Groups asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Political and community Groups sales and areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups The Group has operations in jurisdictions having varying degrees of sales are denominated in US dollars.
The Australian, Canadian and political and commercial instability.
Political instability can result in US dollars are the most important currencies influencing costs.
The civil unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, renegotiation or relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have a nullification of existing agreements, mining leases and permits, material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, costs, changes in laws, taxation policies or currency restrictions.
11 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Risk factors Commercial instability caused by bribery and corruption in their current information available.
Estimates may, however, be various guises can lead to similar consequences.
Any of these can insufficient and or further issues may be identified.
Any have a material adverse effect on the profitability or, in extreme underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs will reduce cases, the viability of an operation.
earnings and could materially and adversely affect the Groups asset Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located values, earnings and cash flows.
in or near communities that may now, or in the future, regard such an operation as having a detrimental effect on their economic and Non managed projects and operations social circumstances.
Should this occur, it may have a material Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by the adverse impact on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability Groups partners, the Group may provide expertise and advice, but it of an operation.
In addition, such an event may adversely affect the cannot guarantee compliance with its standards and objectives.
Groups ability to enter into new operations in the country.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could not only adversely affect the value of the related non managed Defined benefit pension plans projects and operations but could also, by association, harm the Certain of the Groups businesses sponsor defined benefit pension Groups other operations and future access to new assets.
If the assets of these pension plans do not achieve expected investment returns for any fiscal year, such deficiency would result Regulation in one or more charges against the Groups earnings.
In addition, The Group is subject to extensive governmental regulations in all changing economic conditions, poor pension investment returns or jurisdictions in which it operates.
Operations are subject to general other factors may require the Group to make substantial cash and specific regulations governing mining and processing, land contributions to these pension plans in the future, preventing the tenure and use, environmental regulations including site specific use of such cash for other purposes.
environmental licences, permits and statutory authorisations, workplace health and safety, trade and export, corporations, Unions and labour disputes competition, access to infrastructure, foreign investment and Some of the Groups employees are represented by labour unions taxation.
Some operations are conducted under specific agreements under various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be with respective governments and associated acts of parliament.
able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements Changes to any regulation or agreement may have an adverse effect when they expire.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not on the profitability and viability of an operation.
prevent a strike or work stoppage at its facilities in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the Groups earnings and financial condition.
Technology The Group has invested in and implemented information system and operational initiatives.
Several technical aspects of these initiatives are still unproven and the eventual operational outcome or viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
Accordingly, the costs and benefits from these initiatives and the consequent effects on the Groups future earnings and financial results may vary widely from present expectations.
Land and resource tenure The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in respect of land and resources including indigenous title may be unclear and may lead to disputes over resource development.
Such disputes could disrupt relevant mining projects and or impede the Groups ability to develop new mining properties.
Health, safety and environment Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community expectations.
Evolving regulatory standards and expectations can result in increased litigation and or increased costs all of which can have a material and adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
Mining operations Mining operations are vulnerable to a number of circumstances beyond the Groups control, including natural disasters and unexpected geological variations.
These can affect costs at particular mines for varying periods.
Mining, smelting and refining processes also rely on mining inputs.
Appropriate insurance can provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may have a material and adverse impact on the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
Rehabilitation Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed during the mining process and addressing environmental, health and community issues are estimated and provided for based on the most
