ANNUAL REPORT 18 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES THE GROUP HAS AN ESTABLISHED RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS WHICH WORKS WITHIN THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK.
The Group has an established risk PRINCIPAL STRATEGIC RISKS PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL RISKS Further financial risk areas have management process which works As an international business, Foreign currency management is been identied in cash control and within the corporate governance Rotork operates in all markets an important area for Rotork and credit management.
Both functions framework set out in our corporate across the world mainly through the potential for significant are centrally controlled within the governance statement.
The major a direct presence but in the smaller movements in world markets for Group and are monitored through risks affecting the Group are territories through agents.
Implicit the currencies in which we operate the audit process for compliance, identied by senior management in in this is the benevolent trading present significant risks for us.
and are reported on to the association with the Board and environment that comes with There are a number of ways in Audit Committee.
with the support of the external stable regimes across the globe, which we can approach these While these are the principal risks, auditor.
This involves regular risk and disruptions to this stability risks.
Short-term movements are the risk assessment process goes assessment and a process for regionally could affect our ability addressed using forward exchange far beyond this to identify medium ensuring that the Groups approach to trade effectively.
It is not contracts to ensure that when we grade and relatively minor risks and to dealing with individual risks is possible to fully mitigate this as a have contractual liabilities we can provide a process for their regular robust and timely.
These risks are risk but our truly global spread of effectively mitigate and x the review aiming to give action plans categorised by likely impact on the business and visibility of potential exposure.
This does not of itself to create, wherever possible, an business and the likelihood of the risk areas enables us to contain avoid the impact of long-term embedded approach to the event occurring.
They can be seen our exposure.
trends, which are ultimately best containment and management to fall into three main risk areas: handled through a spread of Product and control systems of risks in the businesses.
Risks affecting the strategic vendor programmes across the development which threatens our aims of the business, or those geographical areas over which market leadership position is a issues that affect the strategic we operate.
This, plus the significant risk.
This is an important objectives faced by the Group: development of local production factor driving us to maintain Financial risks issues that facilities, provides natural hedging technological leadership with our could affect the nances of where it is needed.
We aim to the business both externally give customers increasingly greater Internal control within the and from a perspective of control over their applications and businesses is supported by a strong internal controls: value for money as we enhance ethos of financial internal audit Operational risks matters diagnostics, functionality and which Rotork has developed over arising out of the operational control.
We also recognise the a number of years utilising the activities of the Group relating need for global manufacturing skills of accountants from across to areas such as procurement, by sourcing components across the the businesses.
This methodology product development and world and have created production ensures that we have auditors interaction with commercial facilities in lower cost areas which who are aware of the business partners.
are often closer to end user issues and risks involved in them.
Our successful expansion Independence is maintained by into Asia has been as a result of ensuring that any auditor with recognising this.
Our business divisional responsibility only model is less vertically integrated audits companies outside their than our competitors and we are own division.
able to take strategic sourcing and build decisions quickly.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 19 PRINCIPAL OPERATIONAL RISKS In our risk assessment and review As the manufacture of our Having the right people in the programme the issue of quality is a components is outsourced, the right place at the right time is constant theme.
Quality in design, relationship and support from key for a business like Rotork.
quality in component supply, and vendors is crucial to our business.
We devote a lot of effort to quality in production are all under Design of components is done developing our employees and continual review.
The need to recognising the manufacturing giving opportunities for those who maintain our deserved reputation issues involved and our vendor want to develop their skills and for the highest quality standards involvement in the design and experience across our operational and customer facing approach quality processes is an important landscape.
This approach to to our markets is fundamental to part of how the product comes succession planning has enabled Rotork.
Quality is a core part of into production and maintains its us to identify candidates for the Rotork culture, and quality integrity.
There are a number of promotion within the businesses, management programmes are inherent risks in not managing ensure that the necessary training embedded within all of our these processes properly and and career development operating procedures.
We have an significant effort is expended in programmes are open to them active quality management the Group in ensuring that this is and to secure a good ow of function which includes regular done well.
The current dual potential future management supplier visits and audits.
This sourcing programme for key as the Group develops.
process is connected to our components is an example of how product development programme we have responded to these for existing and proposed products matters and we have introduced ensuring that all areas of this seamlessly and with the operational experience are fed support of our suppliers.
back into the design process.
