Risk Management 17 RPS Group Risk Analysis here are failure of IT systems and the The Executive Committee reviews recruitment and retention of key staff.
and has to approve all acquisitions before RPS supplies a wide range of services to any binding commitment is made.
For many sectors of the economy in a Financial Commercial - the risk of acquisitions with an enterprise value in significant number of countries.
This gives performance falling short of excess of 20 million the full Group Board rise to a range of potential risks that need expectations.
This includes reputational approval is required prior to any to be individually recognised, assessed and risk linked to quality of work and binding commitment being made.
Due to the robust liability risk not covered by structure of the business the management The Executives have developed professional indemnity insurance.
of these risks is not an additional function comprehensive methods of evaluation of Compliance - the risk of failing to to the business, but is treated as an potential acquisitions, including the legal comply with all relevant legislation and integral part of the way we operate.
framework within which businesses are regulations.
Main areas of risk to the Executive Directors review the risks the acquired and methods of integration.
Group include legal action from Group may be exposed to and report to compliance failures.
Business Continuity the Board all major risks identified.
Health, Safety and Environment - the Failure to recruit and retain qualified and The Group has a well-established and risk related to the safety of staff, talented staff can disrupt the Groups embedded system of internal control and ability to win new contracts and or clients, sub-contractors, members of risk management that is designed to the public and the environment.
safeguard shareholders investment, as well Each of the Groups businesses has, as as the Groups assets and reputation.
Business Strategy a management priority, the successful Whilst the Group Board has overall The Groups strategy seeks to ensure implementation of the recruitment and responsibility for the Groups system of continuous improvement in the range and retention strategy and they do this in internal control and for reviewing its quality of our services and our financial manners appropriate to the markets they effectiveness, it is the role of management performance by: operate in.
At Group level advice is to implement the policies on risk provided to the businesses about and control.
operating in markets where we can recruitment techniques, remuneration add value to our clients activities: The principal risks identified by the strategies and people management.
In Group can be described under the endeavouring to achieve leadership in addition share schemes are put in place to following categories: those markets: and assist staff motivation and retention.
making acquisitions of quality Business Strategy - the risk of not RPS Technology Services RPSTS delivering the Groups long-term businesses in order to extend our manages all the Groups IT systems although expertise and geographical presence.
Principal risks of the Group some detailed functions are carried out include loss of competitive position Successful implementation of the locally on site.
Each year RPSTS produces a and strategic risks in relation to strategy requires the Board to identify plan for the improvement of the Groups specific activities.
appropriate markets and how to operate systems.
The Board approves that plan and Business Continuity - the risk that in in them successfully.
Each year the Board allocates the appropriate budget.
The plan, the event of an adverse occurrence sets itself a series of specific objectives and when necessary and appropriate, includes the business operations will not be priorities.
Progress against these is measures designed to ensure reliability and able to operate.
Main areas of risk measured on a regular basis.
resilience within the Groups systems.
Business Review Risk Management continued 18 The fact that the Group has includes checks and reviews, financial degree of imprecision cannot be operations in a large number of locations modelling, accountability and transparency statistically tested.
increases its ability to withstand events at every level.
The Groups financial instruments which cut power and communications or Operational staff have no access to comprise cash, bank loans and items such cause equipment malfunction or result the underlying processing of transactions.
as receivables and payables that arise from theft.
Invoices from suppliers are approved by directly from its operations.
The main the Operational Directors and are sent to purpose of these instruments is to provide Financial and Commercial the finance function for processing and finance for the Groups operations.
Remittances from clients are The Group reports its results in RPS endeavours to conduct business in an received by the finance function.
This sterling and has operations in Ireland, open and fair manner.
A significant part of segregation of duties within the finance USA, Canada, Australia, Malaysia and RPS success derives from the clarity and team itself and between the offices and the Netherlands that have functional accountability of its management structure.
the accounting function ensures currencies other than sterling.
As a result The day-to-day business of the Group is accountability and sound financial practice the Groups balance sheet and income carried out in business units which from at every level.
statement can be affected by movement time to time are grouped in either Business unit and office financial results in the exchange rate between sterling and geographical or functional segments.
Each are reviewed monthly by relevant boards the functional currencies of the overseas business unit is treated as both a separate and directors.
The Group does not hedge business for the purposes of budgeting and such translation exposures.
This detailed review, together with the accounting and as part of the Group-wide checking and reconciliation work done by Where operations have part of their network for marketing and business the accounting team, ensures the high trade in currencies other than their intelligence purposes.
Each unit is managed degree of scrutiny required to minimise functional currency they endeavour where by directors who are responsible for the the possibility of mistakes, irregularity or possible to match the currency of development of their office and fraud remaining undetected.
revenues and cost of sales.
The Group accountable for its performance to the occasionally uses foreign exchange relevant Board.
The Groups Executive Committee, contracts and loans to manage which comprises the Groups Executive Each business unit prepares a Business transactional risks.
Directors and the Company Secretary Plan which defines the activities and scope meets at least once a month and discusses It has been and remains the Groups of business to be conducted by the office.
newly emerging risks as they occur.
The policy that no trading in financial The budgets quantify the expectations for minutes of these meetings are provided to instruments shall be conducted.
the Group and comprise a key element of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Plans including The Group has strong review budgets are agreed with the Group Board.
The RPS Board monitors the Groups procedures for monitoring and controlling The businesses in the UK are supported by financial performance on a monthly basis cash flows and the requirements for debt.
centrally run accountancy and personnel using detailed budgets as the benchmark.
This includes the production of functions.
The Dutch, Irish, North American, From time to time future performance is continuous cash flow projections and the Malaysian and Australian businesses have estimated by reference to forward order reporting and review of daily cash their own accounting and personnel books, although the nature of most collections against targets.
RPS has a detailed financial contracts means that such forecasting reporting management system, which cannot be completely accurate and the RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 19 The internal audit function is ISO 9001:2000, through the: Australia have quality systems that are undertaken by the Group financial based on formal procedures that have been documenting of procedures to control accounting team as part of its other developed in line with ISO 9001 guidelines.
the quality of services: functions.
Given the current structure of Our business depends largely on our maintaining records to control and the Group, the Board and the Audit ability to attract and retain talented show compliance with quality and Committee consider that a separate employees.
The market for highly skilled client requirements: internal audit function is not required individuals in our business sector is presently.
The Board recognises that control recording the implementation of extremely competitive.
risks increase during the integration of corrective measures necessary to Those RPS offices providing newly acquired businesses and during this ensure the quality of service provided: environmental monitoring and analytical period monitors closely the status of the taking appropriate preventative services hold external accreditations from systems and commercial integration.
measures to improve quality and additional quality assurance schemes.
minimise the possibility of Quality accreditations held by individual Compliance, Litigation unsatisfactory service: and RPS offices include those externally and Insurance audited by UKAS, Aquacheck, RICE, UK monitoring of the quality management It is important RPS complies with NEQAS and the UK Health and Safety system in operation at each office at prevailing legislation and with the terms of Executives WASP scheme.
regular intervals in order to ensure its its contracts with clients, staff and continuing and improving effectiveness.
In order to ensure this the In Ireland our offices are quality Group has in place a series of quality accredited through the NSAI National Formal certification to ISO 9001:2000 management systems.
Standards Authority of Ireland and SGS standard is a required procedure for some and for Safety Management through the aspects of RPS business: therefore a In certain parts of its business RPS NISO National Irish Safety Organisation.
number of RPS offices in the UK, Ireland maintains and implements documented and the Netherlands are certified to ISO Quality Management Systems which However, even when these systems 9001.
Offices in North America and satisfy, as a minimum, the requirements of work well issues can arise which may give Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
Business Review Risk Management continued 20 rise to litigation in which RPS needs to The Board sets the policy and During 2007 a Group Environment, participate.
There are procedures in place objectives for health and safety Health and Safety Manager was appointed for managing such litigation.
The Company Secretary has to strengthen the resources in the also has extensive cover in place to been appointed to oversee organisation.
Each major business in the ensure against losses and potential loss.
implementation of the health, safety and Group has appointed health and safety The main insurance policies are environment management within the professionals to implement appropriate Professional Indemnity and Employers and Group.
The performance is discussed at management systems.
Some of these have Public Liability, although a range of others every board meeting, where an analysis of had third party certification to are also in place.
accidents and incidents is presented OHSAS18001.
together with proactive performance All activities that are undertaken are Health and Safety indicators.
assessed for hazards with appropriate The health and safety performance of the The Board require that each business controls put in place to ensure the risk is Group is fundamental to RPS operations provide and maintain safe working reduced to a satisfactory level.
Safeguarding the employees conditions, suitable equipment and necessary safe systems of work are well-being is of paramount importance resources to implement safe systems of documented.
There are systems in place with the responsibility resting with the work to protect employees, contractors, throughout the organisation to audit Board.
This responsibility is shared with the visitors and other people who could be activities to ensure compliance.
local management teams within the effected by the Groups activities.
All employees are trained to ensure organisation and is passed down to each Compliance with legislation in all the that they have the appropriate skills to manager and employee.
countries where activities are carried out carry out their job safely.
Systems are management are trained to ensure that in place to ensure that this is carried out.
they can discharge their responsibilities to Wherever possible the Group aims to their staff.
surpass minimum standards to develop best-practice within the industry.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 21 There is a group wide system for improving the near miss reporting, which reporting and investigating accidents, will be focussed on in 2008. dangerous occurrences and near misses.
RPS offers clients a range of health All incidents are investigated to determine and safety consultancy services including the root cause.
Any significant incidents process safety, asbestos management, fire are reported throughout the organisation safety, occupational health and hygiene, and brought to the attention of the Board.
safety auditing and safety engineering.
RPS In 2007 the reportable accident rate was employees include highly qualified 6.35 incidents per 1,000 employees 2006: specialists who work on safety critical 4.36.
This increase was mainly due to an systems in the defence, nuclear, offshore, increase of incidents in the UK Water petrochemical, transport, construction and business due to the growth of this sector manufacturing industries.
within the Environmental Management business unit.
Typically these incidents are due to back injuries from manual handling and there has also been growth in the number of road traffic accidents.
Initiatives are already underway to target these areas.
Near miss reporting is an important indicator for monitoring health and safety performance.
The number of minor accident and near misses reported throughout the Group has increased.
This is believed to be due mainly to better reporting.
However there is still scope for Accident incident rates Group 2007 2006 Reportable 26 15 Injuries Reportable 6.35 4.36 injuries incident rate per 1,000 employees Business Review
