The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 36 Business review | Risk factors Highlighted are some of the risks that we face, particularly focusing on those that are considered to be specific to the provision of business management software and services.
Group risk factors Through the provision of outstanding As an international company we face As with all businesses, Sage is affected by customer support, we continue to build potential challenges from economic, certain risks, not wholly within our control, strong customer relationships.
Our strategy political, legal, accounting and business such as the loss of key people, which could to develop our product and service offering factors across the globe have a material impact on our long-term to meet local customer needs further We have operations in many international performance and could cause actual results strengthens customer loyalty.
Our strategy is to continue to to differ materially from forecast and historic expand our international operations.
Highlighted are some of the risks that Our business operations rely global scope leads to various risks inherent we face, particularly focusing on those that on systems and networks that in administering the complexities of a global are considered to be specific to the provision could be disrupted business.
A variety of international regulatory of business management software and Our business operations rely significantly on requirements and unexpected changes to services.
This section of the report should be internal systems and networks.
Any incident economic and market conditions are read in conjunction with the Internal control on the systems and networks: caused by examples of specific risks associated with and risk management section of this report, new system implementations, presence of managing an international business.
Any found on page 54. old systems or existence of weaknesses: failure to maintain compliance with foreign could lead to misappropriation of or damage laws or changes in local regulations or any We operate in a highly to our proprietary information or could cause failure to adapt to international market competitive environment disruption to the delivery of our products and changes or local business conditions The market for business management services.
Critical information used in our could have a material, adverse impact solutions is highly competitive.
This business operations, such as customer on our business.
competition continues to intensify, particularly orders, customer support and accounts in the SME market, where the barriers to payable, could be disabled.
As we grow through acquisition and expand entry are relatively low, attracting more our geographical coverage, we continually companies to enter the market.
Many We continue to build and develop all relevant review all relevant requirements to ensure companies with which we compete, or recovery plans for such situations.
We also appropriate policies and controls are which may enter into competition with us, continue to review our security and system developed.
Our compliance programme have greater financial, marketing and and network infrastructure to ensure that, seeks to ensure that local operating technical resources than we do.
wherever possible, these risks are kept companies manage and review local rules to an acceptable level.
and regulations on an on-going basis.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 A change in technology could decrease As our operations diversify, new types While relying, as other companies do, on the demand for our products of business products and services bring laws and regulations in existence, we also Technology in the software industry is additional regulatory requirements continually police the unauthorised use of constantly and rapidly changing.
Being able We have in recent years sought to acquire our products.
to adapt to rapidly changing technologies complementary businesses, but with is important to maintain current products, different product offerings to the original core Foreign exchange and treasury attract new customers and retain existing Sage products.
Moving into the credit card Although a substantial proportion of the customers.
Rapidly changing technology processing and healthcare business sectors Groups revenue and profit is earned outside places demands on employees, particularly has brought additional requirements from a the UK, subsidiaries generally only trade in research and development teams, to stay regulatory perspective and has brought their own currency.
The Group is therefore up to date with technology changes and additional processing risks as customers not subject to any significant foreign customer demands.
Future success have different expectations.
The depends on our ability to adapt to these Groups principal exposure to foreign rapidly changing technologies and continue We have retained expertise in relevant fields currency, therefore, lies in the translation of to provide competitive products to satisfy and have ensured, as with other rules and overseas profits into Sterling.
In addition, our future regulations, that we continually review all is hedged to the extent that these profits are success will depend on our ability to relevant requirements to ensure appropriate offset by interest charges in the same enhance existing products and to develop policies and controls are developed.
currency arising from the financing of the robust and stable new products to address investment cost of overseas acquisitions by the continually changing and evolving Legal protection for intellectual property borrowings in the same currency.
In light of demands of our customers.
may not always prevent unauthorised this limited exposure to foreign exchange use or copying risk, the Group does not hold any We continue to build strong customer We rely on intellectual property laws, sophisticated financial instruments such relationships, to develop and expand including laws on copyright, patent, trade as derivatives.
our product and service offering to meet secrets and trademarks, to protect our customer needs and to seek organic and products.
However, despite laws and The Group has some exposure to interest acquisitive growth opportunities to mitigate regulations being in place, unauthorised rate volatility and seeks to fix interest rates this ever present risk.
copies of software still exist.
In addition, on a proportion of its debt when market the internet can increase and provide new conditions make this desirable.
At 30 methods for illegal copying of the technology September 2007, all outstanding debt used in our products and services.
was held at variable interest rates.
Shareholder information Summary financial statements Governance Business review Risk factors About Sage
