38 Serco Group plc Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has a well-established and Policy statements and embedded system of internal control, standards including financial, operational and As part of the SMS, the Board has compliance controls and risk authorised a set of policy statements, management designed to safeguard which are supported by standards, shareholders investments and the guidance and training material.
An ethical Groups assets and reputation.
Whilst the standard defines the following principles Board has overall responsibility for the that apply to all our business activities: Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role of We will comply with the laws of the management to implement the policies country in which business is being on risk and control.
transacted The Groups risk management process We will respect the rights of the individual identifies the key risks facing each We will respect the traditions and culture business and the Group as a whole and of communities and protect the reports to the Board on how those risks environment within which we operate are being managed.
These processes are reviewed regularly by the Board and We will undertake our business activities conform to the requirements of the in accordance with the highest Combined Code.
Such a system, however, standards of professionalism, integrity can only be designed to mitigate, rather and honesty.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve These broad principles are further business objectives, and can only provide interpreted in respect of individual and reasonable, and not absolute assurance, corporate behaviours.
A separate against misstatement or loss.
The Board corporate responsibility standard defines confirms that this process has been in the corporate responsibility programme place for the year under review and up to that is implemented throughout the Group.
the date of approval of the Annual Review and Accounts.
The Groups risk management standard defines the processes required in the The Serco Management System SMS organisation to manage and mitigate is the framework within which business threats to our business objectives.
divisions, operating companies and The risk management process is contracts implement processes and described in a risk management manual procedures that are appropriate to the and a set of guidance notes covering business being undertaken.
Divisional specific aspects appropriate to particular chief executives and business unit business activities.
An internally managers have the responsibility and developed and supported risk database authority to implement and monitor the tool supports the risk management system within their businesses.
The SMS process at all levels of the business and incorporates: the Groups vision and is used to create the risk, opportunity, strategy: the core values and business assumption and issue registers that principles that define the corporate support the decision-making processes.
behaviour of the organisation: the Risk registers are maintained at a operating structure and roles and contract, business unit, divisional and responsibilities of the principal Group level and are reviewed at least elements of the organisation: and its quarterly and more frequently as required.
The risk registers identify the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact on the business and the actions being taken to reduce and mitigate the risks.
Guidance on the risk appetite of the Group has been issued which defines the appetite tolerance levels both for individual risks and for projects or business units where multiple risks are present.
Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Serco Group plc 39 Operational covering threats to the Principal risks continuity of business operations.
The Group risk register identifies the Principal risks include the failure of principal risks facing the business, information systems, loss of key including those that are managed directly infrastructure and the recruitment and at a Group level.
The process specifically retention of key staff identifies the business objectives and the interests not only of shareholders but also Management covering possible of other stakeholders that are likely, internal failures of managers or directly or indirectly, to influence the management systems.
Principal risks performance of the business and its value.
include failures of internal controls and These include, but are not limited to, management systems.
customers, suppliers, staff, trade unions, For the Group, the most significant risks government, regulators, banks and relate to the strategy and safety areas.
The interests of the wider Social, environmental and ethical issues, community in areas such as social, while recognised within a number of the environmental and ethical impact are Groups risks, do not represent significant recognised in the Groups corporate threats to the Groups strategy at present.
Reputational and emerging risks are kept The Group risk register is updated at least under active review and the Board quarterly, reviewed six-monthly by the informed of changes.
Emerging risks Risk Oversight Group and discussed at cover longer-term risks that could quarterly Board meetings.
Active risks are represent a threat to the Groups activities ranked by importance and grouped under but which are not yet sufficiently defined the following six headings: to be included as active risks.
Examples Strategic covering threats to the longof these risks include financial market term deliverability of the Groups instability, influenza pandemic, climate strategy.
Principal risks include loss of change and changes in key markets.
competitive position and risks associated with acquisitions Financial commercial covering threats Risk mitigation to the shortto medium-term Each risk in the Group register is assigned performance.
Principal risks include the an owner at Board or senior management loss of key contracts, failure to meet level and specific risk reduction and risk financial business plans, pension fund mitigation actions are identified.
liabilities and delays or cost over-runs in The Board may ask for additional major transition programmes information in respect of risk reduction or Compliance covering compliance with mitigation actions or request that an audit all relevant legislation and regulations.
is undertaken to provide additional Principal risks include legal action assurance.
Risk management techniques resulting from compliance failures and used include appropriate systems, staff, unethical behaviour by Directors or internal controls, public and media members of staff relations and business continuity planning.
These techniques are designed with clarity Safety and security covering threats to of accountability and responsibility and the safety of staff, sub-contractors, with certain formal policies covering areas members of the public and the such as compliance, safety and environment and the security of the environmental protection.
Risks include the responsibility for a major accident or incident where public safety is concerned, environmental pollution, assaults on staff in the course of their duties and crime, fraud and terrorism 40 Serco Group plc Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Sercos business units build and Safety management systems in the maintain an understanding of their Groups aviation, rail, defence, nuclear operational risk profiles and are and marine businesses have been expected to fully understand the addressed by the appointment of safety likelihood and potential impact of any specialists for each area who report operational incidents, at the same time directly to the Board and maintain and making appropriate and informed further develop the very high standards decisions that balance the risks against expected in these industries the potential returns and opportunities.
The Groups approach to health, safety While operational risk can never be and environmental protection is eliminated, the Group endeavours to described in the Directors Report.
minimise the impact by ensuring that Qualified and experienced staff in each appropriate infrastructure, controls, business unit provide advice and systems, staff and processes are in place.
support on health, safety and Some of the key management and control environmental issues and undertake techniques are set out below: regular audits The principles of clear delegation of An Ethics Committee, comprising the authority and segregation of duties are Executive team, has been established fully reflected in the Groups operating with responsibility for the review of processes ethical issues that may arise from the Groups activities Comprehensive business review processes ensure that our services and The Company Secretary manages the products meet customer expectations, confidential reporting service performance criteria, operational whistleblowing, to which staff can effectiveness, regulatory requirements, report illegal, dangerous, dishonest or investment returns and profitability unethical activities An Investment Committee meets on a A programme of internal audits confirms monthly basis to consider new or the extent to which key controls are developing projects against a defined applied across the Group.
Audit set of criteria priorities are established on the basis of risk assessments, regulatory There is a formal review and approval requirements and business imperatives process for all proposals and business acquisitions including delegated The operational risk framework tracks authority for sign-off based on the key indicators.
These include analysis of financial value and capital requirement business performance and variances of the transaction and the assessed risk from plan, customer satisfaction and of the project retention data, staff turnover and satisfaction levels, occupational health Sound project management and change and safety incidents, and error and implementation disciplines are applied to exception reporting.
all major development projects including new contract phase-ins, acquisitions, The Group maintains insurance policies to new technology applications, change provide for losses arising from programmes and other major initiatives circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, theft and The commitment and capability of staff legal liability for third party loss.
is critical for the effective management The adequacy of the insurance cover of operational risk.
Ongoing training and is reviewed at regular intervals.
career development constantly improves the skills of our employees.
Selective recruitment, succession planning and other human resource policies and practices are in place to ensure that staff skills are aligned with the needs of the organisation Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Serco Group plc 41 An Aviation Safety Oversight Group, Corporate Assurance Group chaired by the Aviation Safety Director The Corporate Assurance Group CAG and comprising the aviation safety oversees and reviews internal controls representatives from across the Group, and risk policies, procedures and which met once during the year.
This management frameworks and develops group has been responsible for the guidance, training material and implementation of the aviation safety management training to ensure the management system across the Group business needs are met.
The Board and for transferring best practice recognises its responsibilities to between Sercos aviation operating shareholders and the wider community companies where social, environmental and ethical issues are very important.
CAG is A Rail Safety Oversight Group, chaired responsible for developing and overseeing by the Integrated Transport Nonthe corporate responsibility activities Executive Director with Special Interest within the Group.
in Safety and comprising the rail safety representatives from across the Group, Every quarter, CAG reports formally to the oversees the safety management Board, providing analyses of performance systems within Sercos rail businesses in against targets and advises the Board on the United Kingdom, Middle East and policy and future activities to enhance Australia best practice.
In 2007, CAG reviewed internal controls including risk A Corporate Responsibility Steering management, health, safety and Group, chaired by the Chief Operating environmental management.
As a result, Officer, provides direction on projects that a number of activities have been included address the social and environmental in CAGs 2008 programme to strengthen issues affecting our staff and the performance in these areas.
communities within which we work.
CAG sponsors five specialist groups: An Assurance Network Group, chaired Internal audit by the Assurance Director, and During 2007, Grant Thornton continued to comprising senior assurance provide an internal audit function within representatives from across the Group.
the Group, in addition to that provided by During the year, this group met four internal peer review and CAG.
Their times to review policy and procedures, programme is complementary to the and the development, integration and Groups broader programme and has dissemination of the SMS that defines been designed to address internal control how the Group operates and risk management processes and the A Risk Oversight Group, chaired by the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Risk Director, comprising assurance Grant Thornton reported to the Audit representatives from across the Group, Committee twice during the year.
There which met twice during the year to were no material weaknesses identified review the Group risk register and key as a result of the audits undertaken and risk controls.
This group provides corrective action has been taken where additional assurance in relation to the deficiencies were found.
system of internal control and risk management and enhances the Boards ability to discharge its responsibilities in relation to internal control 42 Serco Group plc Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Community addressing our social Joint ventures responsibility for the communities within In addition to contracts held in Sercos which we operate name, the Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures.
Where Environment recognising our legal and investments are not wholly owned by moral responsibility to protect the Serco, the Group can influence, but not environment from damage as a direct control, management practices.
Serco result of our operations and to promote representatives within these companies activities to protect and sustain the ensure that the processes and procedures wider environment.
for identifying and managing risk are Details of our performance in 2007 and appropriate for the business and that targets and objectives for 2008 are internal controls exist and are regularly included in the 2007 Corporate monitored.
Employees from the Groups Responsibility Report and at joint ventures participate in the Assurance www.
Network and the Risk Oversight and Rail Safety Oversight Groups.
Review of internal controls The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the internal controls.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in that part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is about living the values and principles that govern the way we operate and behave.
Our approach reflects the importance corporate responsibility has to those we come into contact with.
It is also good business practice, which we believe will ultimately help us deliver better returns to shareholders.
The responsibilities of CAG, which reports directly to the Board, include developing and overseeing our corporate responsibility activities.
Our corporate responsibility model encompasses four elements: Safety recognising our legal responsibility for the safety of our staff, sub-contractors and the general public for whom we have a duty of care People addressing our legal and moral responsibility for our employees
