RISK PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the Groupsindependent medicaladvisor.
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure early notification of complaints and a legal department which manages  lawsuits.
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
Apart from the macrotextured claims, discussed under Legal Proceedings, and Risk Factors, there are no individual product liability claims, and no group of similar claims, that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financialposition.
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future or that the Group will continue to resolve such claims within insurance limits in view of changing legal doctrines and attitudes regardingsuchmatters.
RISK FACTORS Smith & Nephews products includeimplantable devices but are not life support medical devices.
If these devices malfunction, they could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisismanagement if a .
The Group maintains insurance against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities, and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsuredrisks.
There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups actual financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, could also adversely affect Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements  Special NoteRegarding .
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design defects and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of its products.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmfultothe Groups reputationwhichis cruciallydependent onproductsafety andefficacy.
Product liability is a risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients bring product liability or related claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which could have the effect ofincreasingthe total potential liability.
22 The Group maintains product liability insurance, but this insurance is subject to limits and deductibles.
There is a risk that this insurance could become unavailable at a reasonable cost or at all, or will be inadequate to cover specific product liability claims.
Insurance premiums are relatively high, particularly for coverage in the US, and there is a risk at the medical devices industry level that insurance coverage could become increasingly costly.
If Smith & Nephew or any companies it acquires do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls could significantly limit Smith & Nephews available cash flow and negatively impactproductsales fromanyassociated loss of business.
In August 2003 the Group voluntarily withdrew the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components from all markets.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants whichneed to be replaced.
It appears that some patients did not achieve adequate initial fixation and other patients who were able to achieve adequate initial fixation, are not able to maintain it.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
An investigation by a group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers concluded that the cause of the limited number of early revisions that have been reported is the textured surface ofthe implantthat apposes bone.
As at 31 December 2007 1,029 implants required revision surgery as a result of some patients not achieving adequate fixation and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 977 of these revisions.
The total amount paid out to 31 December 2007 in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses has been $195m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer who provided the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
A further $22m was received during 2007 from a successful legal settlement.
Thebalance of $113m is due fromfive otherinsurerswhohave declinedcoverage.
Medical DeviceCompany Valuations As a growth industry, medical device companies have higher stock market valuations than many other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, or other companies in its sector fail to perform, or the Group is perceived to be performing less well than the sector, then the share price of the Group may be adversely affected.
 The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the business units operates each contain a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital andresearchand development intotheirbusinesses.
There is a risk of further consolidation of companies, particularly in the orthopaedic industry, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growththere couldbe a  impactonthe Groups share priceandits strategic options.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated  to downwardpressure onpricesand ora declineinmarketshare in any of the Groups business areas which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully wouldhave anadverse impactonthe Groups  profitability.
23 Group Description Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research and new product development and in the reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies and endoscopy sales forces of which the largest are in the US.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forcessuffer disruptionorupheaval, its sales and operatingprofit wouldbe adversely affected.
Reimbursement In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlledto a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensuratewiththe increaseddemand .
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by funding agencies including the US Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse rules.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of futurefunding.
Regulatory Compliance in the Healthcare Industry Business practice in the healthcare industry is subject to review by government authorities and regulators.
In March 2005 the Groups orthopaedic business was issued with a subpoena by the US Attorneys office requesting copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstruction surgeons.
In September 2007 the Group and the other four competitors involved settled the criminal and civil matters with respect to any charges against the companies that could result from this investigation.
In June 2006, a subpoena was issued to the orthopaedic business by the United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the period beginning January 2001 through to June 2006 relating to possible violations of US antitrust laws, in respect of the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Similar enquiries were directed to a number of the Groups US competitors.
In connectionwith this subpoena, the Group received six complaints in class action lawsuits alleging violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
In September 2007 the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC wrote a letter to the Group advising that it was conducting an informal investigation into certain marketing practices in the Groups orthopaedics  in Germany, Poland and Greece with reference to the United States statute known as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Group believes that several of its major US competitors have received a similar letter.
The SEC asked the Group to voluntarily disclose to it any problems or issues.
The Group has retained independent counsel and other advisors and is investigating these matters.
In order to fully co-operate with the SEC the Group is investigating the three markets requested and other European markets with respect toits practices and those of Plus whichit recentlyacquiredand is integratingintoits Group.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals in the US, Europe and Japan are the most critical to the Groups success in launching new products.
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution and marketing of its products, particularly in the US, UK and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with 24 such controls could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval to sell a product ina  a .
Patent Infringement Claims Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith& Nephewattempts to protect its intellectualproperty and regularlyopposes thirdparty patents and trademarks in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which could harm its results ofoperations.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licencestothe productswhichare the subject of suchlitigation.
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which has a rapid introductionrate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If new products do not remain competitive with competitors products, the Groupssales revenuecoulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its abilityto achievebusiness plans and targets.
Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at seven main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Mansfield, Massachusetts, OklahomaCity, Oklahoma, and Largo, Floridainthe United States, HullandGilberdyke in the United Kingdom and Aarau in Switzerland.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to coversuchrisksbut is subject to limitsand deductibles and maynotbe .
Management of reconstruction inventory is complex, particularly forecasting and production planning.
There is a riskthat failures  to excess .
Each of the business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and costeffective substitutes.
There is a risk that supplies of SUPARTZ, which is extracted from rooster combs, may be impacted by the outbreak of avian flu in Asia.
Any interruption of supply caused by these or other factors could negatively impactSmith& Nephews revenueand operatingprofit.
As part of the EIP programme the Group intends over time to outsourceto third parties or to relocate to lower cost countries certain of its manufacturing processes.
There is a risk of disruption to supply when these transfers occur.
Currency Fluctuations The Group uses the US Dollar as its reportingcurrencyand the functionalcurrencyof Smith& Nephewplc.
In2007, 46% of Group revenue arose in the US, 26% in Continental Europe, 19% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Latin America and 9% in the UK.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial %.
