RISK PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arising with independent medical advisors.
These conclusions are subsequently reviewed by the Groupsindependent medicaladvisor.
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has implemented systems it believes are appropriate in respect of loss control techniques.
These include reporting mechanisms to ensure early notification of complaints and a legal department which manages  lawsuits.
The Group carries product liability insurance to cover exposure as far as practicable.
Apart from the macrotextured claims, discussed under Legal Proceedings, and Risk Factors, there are no individual product liability claims, and no group of similar claims, that are expected to have a material adverse effect on the Groups financialposition.
There can be no assurance that consumers, particularly in the US, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future or that the Group will continue to resolve such claims within insurance limits in view of changing legal doctrines and attitudes regardingsuchmatters.
RISK FACTORS Smith & Nephews products includeimplantable devices but are not life support medical devices.
If these devices malfunction, they could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Management believes that the Groups quality, regulatory and medical controls and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation is crucially dependent on strong performance in this area and on appropriate crisismanagement if a .
The Group maintains insurance against product, employers and directors and officers liabilities, and physical and consequential loss, subject to limits and deductibles.
The Group maintains liability provisions to cover known uninsuredrisks.
There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below are those that Smith & Nephew believes could cause the Groups actual financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Factors other than those listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify, could also adversely affect Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this report and the cautionary statements  Special NoteRegarding .
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices and products entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design defects and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged malfunction of its products.
In addition, product malfunction could also lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmfultothe Groups reputationwhichis cruciallydependent onproductsafety andefficacy.
Product liability is a risk in the medical devices industry, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographic market where claims for pain and suffering and loss of earnings may involve substantial amounts.
There is a risk that patients bring product liability or related claims that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
The potential exists for claimants to join together in a class action which could have the effect ofincreasingthe total potential liability.
