Some 45% of total sales are to customers in the US, and the Group Risks and uncertainties is therefore particularly affected by US economic conditions.
Demand Smiths operates globally in varied markets and manages the risks for products from the detection business is mainly dependent on inherent in its activities.
The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all spending by governments and government agencies.
forms of risk, both external and internal, where practicable, and to Smiths may be adversely impacted by changes in general economic transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
conditions including interest rates, exchange rates and inflation.
Principal risks The diverse nature of the Groups products, services and customers Foreign exchange helps mitigate the effects of adverse changes in political and The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction risk economic risk on the demand that Smiths experiences.
in respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in another currency: and translation risk in that the results of non-UK Natural catastrophe businesses will translate into differing pounds sterling values Because of the location of operations, Smiths is exposed to a depending on the exchange rate.
The Groups practices for managing number of natural catastrophe risks, such as earthquake, flood and currency risk generally mitigate transaction risk in the short term.
Where cost-effective, such risks are mitigated through Over the longer term, Smiths remains exposed to both transaction physical measures designed to counter the impact of a catastrophe.
The value of assets and associated profits are also protected by insurance.
Longer-term transaction risks are partially mitigated by manufacturing or sourcing components in the same currency as that of the sale.
Actions of competitors Smiths operates in highly competitive markets.
Product innovations Raw material prices or technical advances by competitors could adversely affect the Group.
Smiths products contain various raw materials or purchased The diversity of operations reduces the possible effect of action by any components including electronic components, metals and plastics.
Any increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply can affect the Groups performance.
The diversity of operations both The Group invests some 4% of revenues in research and development geographically and in terms of product area reduces the dependence in order to sustain competitive advantage, and works continually to on any single item or supplier.
Purchasing policies take into account ensure that the cost base is competitive.
and seek to mitigate such risks where practicable.
Effect of legislation or other regulatory action Pension funding Smiths is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards The Group operates significant pension plans.
The average funding in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Unexpected changes in these level of the funded plans at 31 July 2007 was 110% measured by IAS laws or regulations could significantly impair performance: equally 19 methodology.
Funding of pension liabilities at that date was some a failure to comply with these laws, regulations or standards could 55% by equities and 45% by other assets.
Smiths is subject to various damage the reputation of the Group.
funding risks, principally poor performance of the equity investments The Detection and Medical businesses are particularly subject and other investments, and increased longevity of members.
to regulation, with certain customers and regulatory or other Litigation enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, Smiths is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course processes and premises.
Certain legal liability risks, such as product of business, and makes provision for the expected cost based on liability and employers liability, are transferred to insurers, subject to appropriate professional advice.
In particular, John Crane, Inc. a policy limits and conditions.
However, the Group and its subsidiaries subsidiary of Smiths, is currently one of many defendants in litigation have been in business for many years and there is a risk of latent relating to products previously manufactured which contained injury claims which may not be fully covered by insurance.
asbestos and in respect of which a provision for defence costs has Credit been made.
Smiths is exposed to credit risk in relation to customers, banks and The outcome of legal action is always uncertain and there is always the insurers.
Credit control practices take into account the perceived risk.
risk that it may prove more costly and time consuming than expected.
The customer base is relatively diverse.
There is a risk that additional litigation could be instigated in the future Where appropriate, Smiths seeks to insure business risks with which could have a material impact on the Group.
In some liability insurers of good standing.
The insurance industry is, however, subject cases, legal expenses are covered by insurance.
to credit risk, particularly in the event of catastrophe or where an Other risks insurer has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
Occasionally insurer In addition to the principal risks, other external risks include global credit risk may be mitigated through policy commutation.
political and economic conditions: natural catastrophe: actions of Environmental issues competitors: the effect of legislation or other regulatory action: The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which Smiths operates credit and environmental issues.
impose actual and potential obligations on the Group to remediate Internal risks include investment in new products, projects and contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by Smiths.
technology: acquisitions: controls failure: inability to supply and The Group makes provision for the expected cost of remediation business continuity.
based on independent professional advice.
There is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than expected and that further External risks contamination could be discovered.
Global political and economic conditions Smiths operates in over 50 countries, although some 90% of the Groups employees are located in North America, the EU and Japan.
The Group is exposed to political risk, natural catastrophe and possible terrorist action.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 17 Business review continued Internal risks Investment in new products, projects and technology Smiths develops new technologies and introduces new products, in some cases contracting to supply the products to the customer before the design is established or proven.
All new technologies and products involve business risk both in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, and potential customer claims or onerous contracts.
The same is true for investment in new facilities, in transferring production and in information systems.
Such risks may have a material impact on the Group.
Security Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to security risk: failure to adequately mitigate this risk could have a material impact on the Group and its reputation.
Taxation In recent times Smiths has had an effective tax rate of approximately 26%.
There can be no guarantee that Smiths effective tax rate will remain below the prevailing tax rate applicable in the territories in which it operates.
Acquisitions Smiths is an active acquirer of other businesses and companies: acquisitions may involve risks that might have a material impact on the Group.
These risks are mitigated by extensive due diligence, and, where practicable, by representations and warranties and indemnities from the vendors.
Controls failure Smiths operates various corporate governance controls.
Failures in these controls might have a material impact on the Group.
Inability to supply and business continuity Inability to supply against contractual commitments is a risk, which could be material in relation to larger contracts.
Smiths mitigates this risk by implementing effective business continuity plans throughout the Group and, where practicable, transferring them through business interruption insurance.
Sale of Smiths Aerospace The sale and purchase agreement governing the sale of the aerospace business to GE Aviation UK contains certain warranties and indemnities in favour of GE Aviation UK.
If Smiths should incur costs under any of these warranties or indemnities, these costs could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operation.
18 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
