02 What we do Risk factors Tate & Lyle may be affected by a number of risks, not all of which are within our control.
Outlined below is a description of some of the risk factors that may affect our business and share price.
Other factors besides those listed below may also adversely affect the Group.
The process Tate & Lyle has in place for managing these risks is described in the corporate governance report on page 68.
There are inherent risks and uncertainties behind all the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report, which could have a material impact on future results.
Along with those discussed in the operating and financial review, the following section contains our perception of particular important risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in different economic, social and political environments and to manage and to mitigate these risks.
Failure to act safely could have a detrimental impact on Tate & Lyles operations The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and the consumers of our products, is of paramount importance for Tate & Lyle.
Around the world, the Group is subject to laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to health, safety and the environment, including pollution.
The Group recognises the negative impacts that could arise from a major safety or environmental incident, which include: fines or penalties for breach of safety laws: interruptions in operations or loss of licence to operate: liability payments and costs to employees or third parties arising from injury or damage: and damage to reputation.
Our success depends upon our employees and the recruitment and retention of key personnel Central to the success of Tate & Lyles growth strategy is the performance, knowledge and skill-sets of our employees around the world.
We recognise the need to attract, integrate and retain the talent required to fulfil our ambitions and understand the negative impact on results that could arise from an inability to retain key knowledge and adequately plan succession.
Non-compliance with legislation can lead to financial and reputational damage The Group is aware of the importance of complying with all applicable legislation affecting its business activities and of the potential damage to reputation and financial impact that can result from any breach.
Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw material, energy, freight and other operating inputs may affect our margins All our finished products are derived from renewable agricultural raw materials.
All of these materials are subject to fluctuations in price due to factors such as harvest and weather conditions, crop disease, crop yields, alternative crops and by-product values.
Energy usage in our production facilities represents one of our main production costs.
In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in our sales contracts, or due to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to our customers the full amount of raw material price increases or higher energy, freight or other operating costs and this could reduce our profitability.
Tate & Lyle relies on the continued safe operation and the sufficiency of our geographically dispersed manufacturing facilities The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued operation of our various manufacturing facilities and the consistent production of finished products that meet our customers specifications.
The operation of our plants involves many risks, including the failure or sub-standard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, 30 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 natural disasters and potential product contamination.
Any significant manufacturing disruptions or product contamination could adversely affect our ability to make and sell our products, which could cause our sales and operating profits to decline.
Competitors may achieve significant competitive advantage through technological step change or higher service levels If our competitors were able to identify, develop and introduce on a commercial basis a major technological step change, such as significantly improving the efficiency of the production process and lowering costs or introducing a new product with better functionality, we may not be able to introduce a comparable change.
Similarly, we must ensure we at least match or exceed competitors service and quality performance.
If we cannot compete effectively with such innovation or service levels, our sales and profitability could decline.
We may not be able to protect our intellectual property Our commercial success depends, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection on certain of our products and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenge or infringements.
Others may independently develop technologies similar to ours or independently duplicate our technologies.
Our patents may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialisation.
This would reduce or eliminate any advantage of the patents.
We may face litigation to assert claims of infringement, enforce our patents, protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.
We may be unable to enforce our patents or otherwise protect our proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The commoditisation of products or a failure to achieve appropriate margins could lead to greater price volatility The natural life cycle of many products means that products that currently generate higher margins could become commoditised in the future.
Equally, a failure to recognise the true value that the market places on our products may mean that we do not sell at the appropriate price and fail to achieve their full profitability.
Failure to manage joint venture or partnership relationships effectively could be detrimental to Tate & Lyles business The Group recognises that joint ventures and other commercial arrangements must be managed effectively to ensure that both partners objectives are aligned and to maximise financial and operational performance.
At the same time, the Group is aware of the importance of selecting new partners carefully so as to avoid the potential negative impacts on growth or profit levels of an unsuccessful relationship.
Failure to maintain an effective system of internal financial controls could lead to financial irregularities and loss Without effective internal financial controls, the Company could be exposed to financial irregularities and losses from acts which could have a significant impact on the ability of the business to operate.
This covers a variety of areas ranging from safeguarding the assets of the business to the accuracy and reliability of its records and financial reporting.
As a public company Tate & Lyle must provide accurate and timely information to the market to deliver long-term shareholder value The share price on the stock market is based on the expectations of a wide variety of market participants such as analysts, brokers, investment funds and other investors.
Media stories or rumours can influence these expectations.
Failure to provide accurate and timely information, failure to meet Group targets, or failure to respond in an appropriate way could lead to uncertainty and volatility in the share price and the erosion of shareholder value.
Exchange rate fluctuations could create earnings and balance sheet volatility The Group operates in many different countries and is subject to currency fluctuations arising on transactional foreign currency exposures and the translation of overseas subsidiaries results.
For example, a weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would have a negative impact on the sterling reported net assets and shareholders funds.
Volatile capital markets could create a shortfall in funding of retirement benefits The Group maintains various retirement benefit plans for employees that are funded through investments in equities, bonds and other investments, the value of which is dependent on world markets that can be volatile.
The Group may be required to provide additional funding to cover any shortfalls in our benefit plan funding arising from falls in the value of these investments.
Any significant additional funding requirements could adversely impact the Groups financial position.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 31 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
