Our principal risks and uncertainties As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of its day to day operations.
By effectively identifying and managing these risks, we are able to improve our returns, thereby adding value for shareholders.
Economic and market environment financial stability.
We also play our part in developments in areas such as off-site Demand is heavily dependent on addressing the skills shortage in the manufacturing which have the potential consumer confidence in the wider building industry through apprenticeship to reduce the risk of delay.
economy, which is inuenced by factors schemes and membership of the Government regulations such as unemployment levels, availability Construction Industry Training Board.
The number of homes that we are able of credit and interest rates, which are Site safety to build in the course of a financial year outside the Groups control.
Building sites are inherently dangerous is dependent on the granting of suitable places and our management of health and planning permissions.
Due to the time We use the detailed knowledge of our safety issues is of paramount importance taken to obtain planning permissions local teams to select the locations and to us.
on land, we hold a landbank to provide home designs that best meet existing greater certainty of the number of plots to customer demand.
We minimise the level We want all of our people whether be developed in the following 12 months.
of speculative build that we undertake by employee or sub-contractor to go home We also look to use options to control opening a sales outlet at an early stage of at the end of the day safe and healthy.
We land, with ownership not being taken development.
have a comprehensive HSE management until planning is more certain.
system, supported by policies and Land purchasing procedures to ensure that we live up to Delays to the expected timescale for Land is the major raw material for the our intention of providing a safe and receipt of planning on a site may result in Group and, as such, mis-priced or poor healthy working environment.
a reduction in the number of homes that quality land would have a detrimental we have available for sale.
Planners may impact on our profitability.
Construction process also impose conditions within planning Construction, both of homes and other To mitigate this risk, we operate an consents, which may lead to additional projects, can be subject to delays for a investment appraisal process for costs of developing a site.
Our land wide variety of reasons.
These include significant land purchases, which ensures specialists mitigate these risks by working adverse ground conditions, changes to the that such projects are subject to closely with the relevant planning original design once build has commenced appropriate review and authorisation authorities and through the structure of and adverse weather.
dependent on the proposed scale of land purchase agreements.
We target the type of work that we bid for In the UK, planning permissions can be selectively, choosing not to participate in Availability of sub-contractors very specic, including the density, types projects where we consider that the risks The vast majority of the work carried out of housing and availability of car parking are too great.
We maintain detailed risk on site is performed by sub-contractors.
If the views of the planners do not registers, ensuring that risks are identied, If they are not able to recruit sufficient coincide with our customers aspirations priced or hedged and approved at the numbers of skilled employees, our there will be an impact on demand for appropriate level before taking on a developments may suffer from delays our product.
We work closely with the project.
These registers are maintained or quality issues.
Government, both directly and as a throughout the life of the project and member of industry groups, to highlight We vet all suppliers thoroughly prior to reviewed following the completion of the such potential issues.
working with them to ensure that they job to identify any key learning points for For more information visit meet our requirements for environmental future projects.
We also actively promote www.
com impact, health and safety, quality and Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Business Review Group Chief Executives Review continued Since the merger of George Wimpey and Outlook Taylor Woodrow in July 2007, we have The Group is well placed following the merger focused on learning from the experience to benefit from a strengthened landbank, and expertise within each of our legacy operational efficiencies, ongoing cost savings businesses with a view to integrating best programmes and a strong financial position.
We have continued to identify additional areas for further savings and efficiencies.
During 2007, we focused on analysing our legacy companies approach in all business In the UK, although sales and cancellation areas, engaging with internal and external rates have improved in the early part of 2008, stakeholders to identify best practice and they remain weaker than seasonal norms.
deciding on how best to move forward.
We Our order book at the end of February 2008 are now updating our policies, procedures is 1.3 billion with a greater than historical and systems and, once this process is weighting towards affordable homes.
complete, we will focus on implementing We anticipate that the current subdued and embedding these new approaches.
conditions will continue, with interest rates and mortgage availability being key determinants of customer confidence.
Sustainability performance George Wimpey and Taylor Woodrow had Our focus is on preserving value through maintaining a steady, but reduced, sales a strong track record in terms of corporate responsibility performance.
The Next rate and controlling land and work in progress spend tightly.
We anticipate that Generation 2007 sustainability benchmark placed both companies in the top three of these actions will result in significant cash generation, particularly in the second half the UKs 20 largest housebuilders.
Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey scored 73% of 2008. and 72% respectively in the benchmark, in In North America, we do not expect market comparison with an average sector score of conditions in the US to improve signicantly 39%.
We were two of just three companies during 2008.
In the short term, our strategy to score over 70% in this WWF, Insight remains to focus on managing out existing Investment and Housing Corporation sites and reducing the cost base.
We are also included in the placed to take advantage of land acquisition FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability opportunities as they arise in the future.
Our involvement in developments such as the Design for Manufacture site at Oxley Woods and the Millennium Communities in Greenwich, Telford and Manchester are a further testament to our sustainability performance.
Pete Redfern Group Chief Executive 20 www.
