Risk The group operates globally in varied markets and manages the risks inherent in its activities.
It regularly reviews the commercial risks that it faces.
Management of principal risks Risk management and uncertainties The group seeks to mitigate exposure to risks, both external and internal, where Risk Impact Mitigation practicable and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost effective.
As in Client orientation Poor execution Revenue growth The programme has been of global account is held back.
successfully implemented with 13 previous years, during 2007 the groups strategy.
The senior managers participated in an group has recruited and trained exercise to identify the major risks that the best experts from across our could hinder the achievement of the network to create the most groups strategic goals and to develop appropriate client-facing teams.
Set out opposite In 2007, the Global Account is an outline of the principal risks as they Programme extended to 50 clients.
relate to the core principles of the groups strategy.
Internal controls and the control The group does Lack of margin The group is implementing a Service environment are described in the excellence and not achieve a improvement and detailed plan to rationalise its cost efficiency global approach client losses.
processes and operations, to corporate governance report on pages to its operations.
In 2007, the new role of Head of Internal risks Global Operations was created A report on these risks is made to the to lead this initiative.
board at least once a year.
In addition Expertise and Business The group is In 2007, the group launched to the risks to the groups strategy, the innovation Solutions are unable to meet additional services in the areas of group is exposed to financial and foreign not developed.
growing client Retailer & Shopper and Product exchange risks, which it manages with demands for Development & Innovation, formal financial and treasury actionable insight.
supported by the acquisitions of management policies.
These are ID Magasin and Landis.
A new described in detail in note 22 to the structure for Areas of Expertise has financial statements on pages 79 to 83. been implemented, to develop TNS is an active acquirer of other additional innovative solutions to businesses and companies: acquisitions clients demands.
may involve risk that could have an impact on the group.
These risks are People High calibre staff Employees are In 2007, the group undertook a development are not retained unable to deliver thorough review of its remuneration mitigated by due diligence and usual or recruited.
against the and incentives for senior legal contractual protections in the business model management with outside acquisition agreements.
The group is required by the consultants, in order to ensure reliant on its IT systems to collect and groups strategy.
better alignment between rewards deliver information for clients and seeks and achievements.
Additional to mitigate this risk by implementing emphasis has been placed on effective business continuity plans.
talent and performance management and career External risks development.
The group also faces a number of external risks including: global, political and economic conditions: actions of however product innovations or technical competitors: the effect of legislation or regulation and credit issues.
As the group advances by competitors could adversely impact on the group.
TNS is subject to operates in 80 countries, this diversity helps mitigate the effects of adverse a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in the jurisdictions in which it changes in political and economic risk in individual countries.
The group invests operates, principally in relation to privacy and employment and seeks to mitigate significantly in innovation and developing its people and products to maintain these risks through effective internal policies and procedures.
competitive advantage over competitors, TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
