Financial review Principal risks and uncertainties During the year we Risk can be considered either as downside risk the risk that something created the position of can go wrong and result in a financial loss or financial exposure Chief Risk and Control for the Group, or volatility risk the risk associated with uncertainty, officer for the Group.
meaning there may be an opportunity for financial gain as well as potential for loss.
This document contains certain forward-looking statements, which involve risk and uncertainty as they relate to future events and circumstances.
Tomkins operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within its control.
This section highlights specic areas where we are particularly sensitive to business risk.
Our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.
Additional risks not currently known to us, or risks that we currently regard as immaterial, could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or the results of operations.
As part of the Performance Management Framework of the Group, each business considers strategic, operational, commercial, and financial risks and identies risk mitigation actions.
Business unit managers maintain Risk Proles, including mitigation strategies, which are updated at least annually.
Periodically, each business unit is subject to a review, facilitated by the ofce of the Groups Chief Risk and Control officer, to validate the business units Risk Prole.
A review of risks and exposures in each business is also performed quarterly as part of the Business Review process.
At the Group level, the Chief Risk and Control officer performs a quarterly risk assessment, with the likelihood of the identied risks occurring and their potential financial impact considered by the Groups senior management.
Mitigating actions are identied for each risk and the effects of these actions are also reviewed and monitored quarterly for the most significant risks.
At least annually, the risk assessment and managements response plans are independently considered by the Group Internal Audit IA function.
The Group Risk Prole and managements responses to those risks are then formally presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors accompanied by IAs evaluation of risk response.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, which could cause the Groups actual results to vary materially from historic and expected results, are set out below: Operating in global markets subjects the Group to risks associated with changes in economic conditions.
The current economic malaise centred on US credit markets may spread globally, dampen demand, increase price pressure, reduce margins and accelerate customer consolidation.
These pricing pressures and declining demand risks are particularly acute in our housing, commercial construction and automotive markets.
As discussed more fully elsewhere in this document, the Groups businesses have responded aggressively to mitigate these risks, principally through plant rationalisations, lean and other cost base reduction initiatives, strategic sourcing programmes, Tomkins Annual Report 2007 45 Financial review continued and development of non-traditional market and adjacent space expansion plans.
However, a prolonged dampening of demand could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
The Groups businesses compete globally for key manufacturing inputs and they may be adversely affected should the availability of certain raw materials, energy or other key components be disrupted by rising demand from rapidly developing economies.
The purchasing policies and practices of the Groups businesses seek to address this risk through multiple source strategies, joint procurement initiatives where practicable, and expanded geographic diversity in buying.
Elsewhere in this document the Groups recent activities and plans with regard to restructuring, rationalisation, investments and acquisitions are discussed.
These represent important steps in the implementation of our plans for each business to expand in attractive markets and improve its competitive position through improved manufacturing efficiencies and reductions in its cost base.
However, generating the expected returns from these activities and investment decisions, particularly those involving relocations to low-cost countries with elevated risk of political instability, and investment in nontraditional markets, involve higher levels of execution risk.
Poor or failed implementation of these plans could have a significant adverse impact on the Groups results.
The Group replies to this risk with a thorough Investment Project Proposal IPP process which involves, among other things, return sensitivity modelling and specic project risk identication and action plans.
Major project and IPP progress is also monitored quarterly as part of the regular Business Reviews.
With regard to acquisitions, a rigorous, prescribed due diligence approach with an experienced team, combined with formal 100 day integration plans, is employed.
The automotive industry is affected by macro-economic conditions driven by changing consumer demand and preferences.
The Groups exposure to the continuing fortunes of General Motors, Ford and Chrysler and the penetration challenges presented by the new US domestic manufacturers may result in lost market share and or lower profitability.
This risk has been addressed through the continuous monitoring of our financial exposure to these customers, ongoing but focused disciplined investment in support of these customers more competitive platforms, particularly those addressing green concerns through fuel efficiency and emissions, and our emphasis on Industrial and Aftermarket expansion to diversify our customer base.
The inability to sustain margins due to increasing costs of raw materials, energy and other inputs which we are unable to pass on to customers, represents another significant risk to the Group.
Managements response to this risk involves, among other things, the aforementioned lean and strategic manufacturing initiatives, multiple source and geographically diverse procurement policies, strategic customer pricing reviews, and expanded investment in low-cost countries, the latter principally to counter the competitive threat from low-cost producers in Central and Eastern Asia.
46 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Financial review If the Group is unable to timely identify, attract and retain excellent management and executive talent, it may not be able to effectively implement its business strategy, or it may experience delays in the development of, or face difficulty in selling, its products and services.
Tomkins believes its future success depends in large measure on its ability to retain and develop its existing management talent.
To that end we employ a number of tactics such as formalised succession planning, management internships, competitive compensation schemes which align manager and shareholder interests, periodic 360 degree performance evaluations, and bespoke management training through Tomkins College, the Groups executive development programme presented in league with the highly regarded Indiana University School of Business in the US.
These initiatives, along with the successful execution of the Groups strategic plan, are viewed as the main attractions for external management talent.
The nature of the Groups products mean that we face an inherent risk of product liability claims if failure results in any claim for injury or consequential loss.
Fewer suppliers due to vendor consolidation and a less qualied offshore supplier base increase the likelihood of receiving inbound defective materials.
This increases the risk of product failure and resultant liability claims.
The businesses in the Group seek to mitigate this risk by employing thorough qualication procedures for new suppliers, implementing rigorous quality programmes in our plants, particularly for inbound materials, and making strategic exits from particularly litigious markets.
Exposure to the US dollar presents significant risk to the Group.
Translation of much of the Groups businesses, which employ the US dollar as the functional currency, impacts the perception of the Groups underlying financial strength as the dollar weakens against sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
Additionally, genuine economic risk is heightened on cross-border transactions denominated in US dollars as the worlds major currencies strengthen against it.
The Group closely monitors all cross-border positions and hedges as appropriate on all currency exposures to address the latter risk and will be adopting the US dollar as its reporting currency and will redenominate its share capital in 2008 to address the translation issue.
Operationally, the Group has a number of initiatives in place to capitalise on its substantial US manufacturing base and the export opportunity presented by the recent weak US dollar.
Tomkins operates in highly competitive markets and the failure to deliver products within acceptable timeframes could have an adverse effect on the business.
Customer driven reductions in lead times, carrier consolidation, reduced capacity from driver shortages, fuel availability cost, and longer supply chains concomitant sourcing from low-cost countries all may impact service levels resulting in lost share or missed opportunities.
Additionally, short lead time horizons in many of our businesses exposed to the US consumer can impair forecasting accuracy.
This may result in the inability to predict abrupt changes in our US driven end markets.
The Groups businesses continue to monitor order backlog, intake and lead indicators, while optimising inventory stocking levels, rening forecasting techniques and maintaining close customer contact to mitigate these risks.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 47 Financial review continued Supplier payment policy Tomkins requires its operating companies to determine terms and conditions of payment for the supply of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate prices and other commercial matters.
Suppliers are made clearly aware of the agreed terms and how any disputes are to be settled and payment is made in accordance with those terms.
The number of days credit taken by the Company and the Group for trade purchases is analysed as follows: 2007 2006 Days Days Company 30 30 Group range of days 16 132 9 180 Group average days 59 53 Reporting in US dollars The Groups principal operations are based in the US and the majority of the Groups profits is generated in US dollars.
When reported in sterling, the Groups results are therefore exposed to uctuations in the value of the US dollar.
Furthermore, because the Companys ordinary shares are denominated in sterling, the legal form of shareholders investment in the Company no longer reects its economic substance as an interest in an income stream that is now generated principally in US dollars.
In order to reduce the effect of currency uctuations on the Groups reported results in the future, we have decided to present the Groups financial statements in US dollars with effect from the beginning of the 2008 financial year.
In addition, subject to approval by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, we intend to redenominate the ordinary share capital of the Company in US dollars.
Subsequent to the redenomination, dividends would be declared and paid in US dollars, although unless they elect otherwise, UK shareholders would continue to receive dividends in sterling.
As a result, the legal form and economic substance of shareholders investment in the Company would be more closely aligned.
Reporting under US GAAP In recent years, we have led with the SEC financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP in order to satisfy the reporting requirements associated with the listing of the Companys ADRs on the New York Stock Exchange.
We presented those financial statements in the Annual Report alongside the equivalent financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
In November 2007, the SEC announced changes to its rules that permit foreign private issuers to le financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS without reconciliation to US GAAP.
We will make immediate use of the new rules and in respect of the 2007 financial year will le with the SEC financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
We therefore no longer prepare financial statements in accordance with US GAAP.
48 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Financial review Quarterly reporting Following changes in the rules of the UK Listing Authority, Tomkins will in future publish Interim Management Statements during the first and second half of the financial year.
The Interim Management Statements will describe the Groups performance during the relevant period and its financial position at the end of the period and will highlight the effect of any material events or transactions that have taken place.
The Board believes that this change is consistent with its aim to reduce, where possible, the complexity of the Groups financial reporting and focus on those matters that are of signicance to investors.
Tomkins will continue to publish a half-yearly report that includes condensed financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Financial Statements.
