27 BUSINESS REVIEW RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Liquidity risk there is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and Our policy is to ensure continuity of funding and flexibility.
debt management of the significant risks faced by the group.
this is maturities are spread over a wide range of dates, thereby ensuring described in the internal control section of the corporate governance that we are not exposed to excessive refinancing risk in any one report on page 40. year.
the maturity profile of debt outstanding at 30 december 2007 is summarised on page 24.
Our liquidity risk arises from timing Operational differences between cash inflows and outflows.
these risks are the key risks arising from operations relate to organisation and managed through unutilised committed and uncommitted credit people, advertising, circulation, pensions and business continuity.
it is our policy to maintain sufficient cash balances and committed facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements.
these Organisation and people resources, together with the expected future cash flows the ability to execute and implement our strategic and business to be generated by the business, are regarded as sufficient to plans relies on the appropriate group structure, culture and availability meet the anticipated funding requirements of the group for at of talent.
Our extensive review of the groups businesses, operating least the next 12 months.
models and structure concluded that our focus should be on our national newspaper titles, key regional titles, and digital assets.
Financing and interest rates risk A new technology-led operating model is being adopted to provide Our exposure to interest rate risk is managed through the use of a stronger platform for long-term growth.
the ability to complete interest rate swaps, options, caps and forward rate agreements.
the transition will be reliant upon the success of our change hedging transactions are undertaken after a review of the effect management programme.
on profit after tax of a range of interest rate assumptions and probabilities, determined by reference to the general economic Advertising climate and market forecasts for interest rates.
in view of the the loss of major clients or reduction in a sector may adversely significantly reduced debt levels and relatively low interest rate affect advertising, which is a significant proportion of our revenue.
environment, no interest rate hedging with the exception of We are investing in our advertising functions using state-of-theone forward rate agreement which was settled in the year art technology to improve customer service.
We have strengthened was undertaken for the groups debt as at 30 december 2007. our online presence through acquisitions and the continuing launch of websites.
Foreign currency risks less than 2% of the groups turnover and operating costs are Circulation generated in currencies other than sterling.
given the minimal impact We may experience further loss of readership due to comparative on profit after tax of fluctuations in foreign currencies, cover price or competitive activity.
Our approach is to continue to we trade foreign currencies at spot rates.
the payment of interest focus on sustainable returns and appropriate levels of investment and capital on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies in our titles.
We will complete a programme of investment in colour is all fully hedged through cross-currency interest rate swaps.
After this we will only have two print sites which do not have full colour.
Covenants risk We seek to maintain standard terms for all our financial covenants Pensions where possible.
Our covenants are monitored on an ongoing basis pension deficits may grow at such a rate as to affect the viability with formal testing of financial covenants at each half-year end.
of the group itself or so that the annual funding costs consume a the company continues to comply with all borrowing obligations disproportionate level of profit.
Although this is carefully monitored and financial covenant obligations.
and there are regular reviews with trustees, there are a number of factors which are outside our control, including interest rates, inflation rates, mortality and regulatory change.
Business continuity We are dependent on our technology, networks and manufacturing capability.
business continuity plans are in place and monitored and we have invested in our network and manufacturing infrastructure and flexibility.
Environmental Key risks are described on page 33 of the corporate responsibility report.
Treasury the key risks arising from our activities and our financing facilities are liquidity, financing and interest rates, foreign currency and covenants.
the treasury policies for managing these risks were approved by the board in march 2001 and are summarised below.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
