Directors report: Business review Risk factors Our rapid growth brings many opportunities but also new challenges.
Effective risk management is a critical part of our strategy, business objectives and day to day activities.
Clear risk identification Appropriate policies and procedures Detailed procedures have been developed The table opposite sets out the key risks facing Tullow, their potential impact and to support risk management across the mitigation strategies developed.
Risks activities of the Group and the application and consistency of these procedures is are grouped into four main categories: regularly reviewed by the Groups Internal strategic: financial: operational: and external.
Effective risk management Audit function.
In addition the Group has also successfully applied for external is critical to achieving our strategic certification of critical processes such objectives and protecting our people as International Standards Organisation and reputation.
Tullow manages and ISO 14001 certification for environmental mitigates its risks by maintaining a management in the UK, Ireland, South balanced portfolio, through compliance Africa and Bangladesh and ISO 9001 with the terms of its licences and quality certification for our UK gas application of policies and procedures receiving and processing terminal.
The appropriate for an international oil and review process for each standard involves gas company of its size and scale and an assessment of the management of through the recruitment and retention of material risks and business and operational skilled personnel throughout its business.
controls employed to mitigate such risks.
Comprehensive risk management systems The Directors have ultimate responsibility Tullow has a systematic approach to for the effectiveness of the Groups risk risk identification and management and management activities and internal undertakes both top-down driven by control processes.
Any system of internal the Board and bottom-up originating control can provide only reasonable, and from the business units and operations not absolute, assurance that material processes facilitated by the Groups financial irregularities will be detected or Internal Audit Function under the ultimate that the risk of failure to achieve business supervision of the Audit Committee.
The Boards Board, through the Audit Committee, objective is to ensure Tullow has completed a review of internal controls appropriate systems in place for the and risk management.
No significant identification and management of risks.
gaps or weaknesses were identified as part of the 2007 review.
Clear targets and responsibility The Boards strategic risk identification process feeds into the annual strategy review as part of the overall annual planning cycle.
Annual objectives and targets covering production, development and exploration are established for each business unit with the identification, management and reporting of risk as an integral part of the process.
Tullow recognises that risk is inherent across its operations, and all activities with a potential corporate or business impact are subject to an appropriate review to ensure that risks can be mitigated and controlled.
44 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Risk description and potential impact Mitigation Strategic risk Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value.
Ineffective mix of oil and gas interests Spread of oil and gas interests across diverse geographical locations.
Insufficient portfolio balance Annual formal review and validation of strategy by the Board.
Organic and acquisition-led growth Consistent investment appraisal process and Board approval for acquisitions.
Inefficient capital allocation Comprehensive annual budgeting process covering all expenditure approved by the Board.
Ineffective management processes Policies and procedures appropriate for Tullows size and scale.
Loss of key staff succession planning Remuneration policies to attract and retain staff and specific staff development and training policies implemented.
Financial risk Asset performance and excessive leverage results in the Group being unable to meet its financial obligations.
Excessive or inappropriate debt Access to competitive financing.
Conservative approach to debt equity financing.
Maintain financial flexibility by portfolio management.
Inadequate or excessive hedging Hedging strategy agreed by the Board utilises a mix of physical and derivative products appropriate to Tullows size and production base.
Underperforming assets Portfolio spread reduces dependence on a single asset.
Regular asset financial performance reporting.
Industry cost inflation Rigorous contracting procedures with competitive tendering.
Mis-priced corporate acquisitions Consistent investment appraisal and Board approval for acquisitions.
Uninsured events Comprehensive insurance programme.
Operational risk Operational event impacts staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of reputation and or revenue.
EHS incident EHS standards set and monitored regularly across the Group.
Security incident Integrated Management System covers day to day operational risks.
Key development failure Technical, financial and Board approval for all projects and progress reports.
Failure to secure equipment, services Rigorous contract and procurement procedures.
Comprehensive and resources long-term planning to resource key projects.
Corruption or reputation risk Consistent ethical standards established and documented.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Social and community programmes.
Sustained exploration failure Exploration process validates programmes prior to Board approval.
Hostile acquisition Robust defence strategies against hostile acquisitions.
Effective investor engagement and ongoing communications programmes.
External Risks The overall external political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to independently manage and grow its business.
Political risk and fiscal change Developing successful relationships with governments and communities.
Lack of control of key assets Joint venturing with partners and governments.
Corporate governance failings Regular review of compliance requirements.
Shareholder sentiment Active engagement with the investor community.
Oil and gas price volatility Hedging strategy agreed by the Board.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
