34 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties In this section we describe some of the principal risks that the Implementing our strategy depends on attracting and directors believe could materially affect our business, revenues, retaining key management personnel across all our businesses.
operating income, net income, net assets or liquidity or capital We operate in a number of industry segments in which there resources.
The nature of risk is such that no list can be is intense competition for experienced and highly qualified comprehensive and it is possible that other risks may arise, or that individuals.
During the year a number of staff have left the risks not currently considered material may become so in future.
business to join private equity-backed venture: this is the single Sound risk management is an essential discipline for running largest threat to our retention of key staff.
As we cannot predict the business efficiently and pursuing our strategy successfully.
the future availability of good people, we place significant UBM has a business-wide risk management process, monitored emphasis on succession planning and developing and retaining by the Board, to ensure a consistent and coherent approach.
We have in place a number of incentive schemes, including the Executive share options, Performance We operate in a highly competitive environment that is Share Plan, Bonus Investment Plan and the Medium-Term subject to rapid change and must continue to invest and Investment Plan to attract and motivate key senior managers.
Our B2B media and news distribution businesses operate in PR Newswire has undertaken a project to consolidate its highly competitive markets that continue to change in response US editorial bureaux to technological innovation and other factors, as discussed in PR Newswires project to consolidate its 11 editorial bureaux to Strategy and Performance above.
We cannot predict with three facilities in Cleveland, Albuquerque and Washington DC certainty changes that may affect the competitiveness of the was mostly completed during 2007, with the final stages of the business, or whether technological innovation will render some Albuquerque move due to be completed by March 2008. of our existing products and services partially or wholly obsolete.
As previously disclosed, the disruption of the consolidation and We aim to mitigate this risk through creating a balanced the demands of training of new staff caused lapses in PR portfolio of products that evolves to meet the needs of our Newswires service quality, resulting in loss of customers and of customers, investing particularly in organic initiatives that address market share.
We cannot be sure that after the consolidation this environment, and acquiring leading online businesses, while project has been completed the loss of customers will cease nor at the same time selling or closing titles.
that lost customers and market share will be regained.
We mitigate these risks by closely monitoring the projects completion Our strategy calls for acquisitions in a number of our and ensuring that PR Newswires service quality is restored.
businesses, consequently exposing us to risks associated Several of our businesses have a strategy which is dependent with acquisitions.
upon the successful execution of major IT projects.
A number of The risks associated with such a strategy include the availability of businesses within UBM are currently engaged in material projects suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for to update critical reporting systems, restructure the business, any acquisition, assimilating and integrating acquired companies refresh existing products, or develop new products to ensure that into UBM and changes in the availability or cost of debt financing we remain competitive.
These projects are required to secure due to the global credit crunch.
In addition, potential difficulties future revenue streams and often involve a significant capital inherent in mergers and acquisitions may adversely affect the investment.
Many of the projects specifically involve a heavy results of an acquisition.
These include delays in implementation investment in IT, and system development in particular.
The failure or unexpected costs or liabilities, as well as the risk of failing to to manage and execute these projects successfully could lead to realise operating benefits or synergies from completed increased costs, delays in completion and consequent erosion transactions.
We mitigate these risks by following systematic procedures for We seek to mitigate these project-related risks through integrating acquisitions, applying strict financial criteria to any monitoring by internal audit, assigning responsibility for projects potential acquisition including the costs associated with financing at an executive management level within UBM and through the the transaction, and subjecting the process to close monitoring recent creation of a new group role of Executive Vice President and review by internal audit and the Board.
Our expansion into new geographic regions subjects our We are dependent on publishing advertising for 28% businesses to specific risks of operating in these regions.
of revenue As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have operations Advertising and other marketing spend tends to be cyclical.
in many new geographic regions such as India and South In times of economic slowdown or recession, some companies America.
We are a global entity but growth in these regions spend significantly less, particularly on advertising.
There is also presents logistical and management challenges due to different increasing competition for advertising revenues from competitors business cultures, laws and languages.
This results in control, including search companies such as Google and Yahoo!
operational and reputation risks which we are addressing by Our advertising revenues in 2007 were 28% of UBMs seeding experienced employees into new regions as part of local total revenues 2006: 36%.
management teams and through review by internal audit.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 We are addressing this risk by migrating our B2B media businesses Our businesses are required to comply with tightening and from their traditional print base to incorporate a higher proportion increasingly high profile legislation on data protection issues of event and online revenues.
The increasing proportion of Our operations are required to comply with growing levels of revenues from events in particular gives us better visibility on data protection and privacy legislation governing increasing areas future earnings.
We are also investing in both print and online of our businesses.
The need to comply with data protection intellectual property-based products e. g. workflow business legislation is a significant control, operational and reputation risk information products which are less subject to the cycle of which can affect the business in a number of ways including, for advertising spend.
example, making it more difficult to grow and maintain marketing data and also through potential litigation relating to the alleged Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our reported results.
We are addressing these risks by legal UBMs financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling reviews, operational reviews and staff training to raise awareness and are therefore subject to fluctuating exchange rates whenever of the need for compliance in this area.
financial information is translated from other currencies.
The United States is our most important market and significant Our exhibitions businesses may be adversely affected by fluctuations in U. S. dollar sterling exchange rates could affect incidents which curtail travel, such as major terrorist attacks our reported results from year to year.
A one cent movement in or outbreaks of disease, such as Avian flu or Severe Acute exchange rates equates to a 400,000 to 500,000 movement in Respiratory Syndrome SARS.
UBMs exhibitions businesses contributed 30% of UBMs revenue in 2007, and over 90% of CMP Asias revenue on a pro forma Future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Visitors travel to these shows from around the world.
While UBMs taxation creditor of 227.6m at the year end Any incident that curtails travel will have an impact on the represents our prudent assessment of the potential tax liability for running of an event that year.
But our experience from the previous tax years across different tax jurisdictions worldwide, we 2003 SARS outbreak in Asia and earlier, following reaction to have necessarily made judgements about the outcome of matters the terrorist attacks in the USA in 2001 showed that whilst not yet concluded.
revenues were affected in the year of the outbreak or event, We seek to manage this risk by regularly assessing UBMs they rebounded strongly as demand recovered or even potential tax liability with the help of external advisors.
increased to compensate for the previous year.
We consider the current provision to be adequate.
Changes in government legislation may affect the The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and former pharmaceutical industry.
employees is subject to changes in pension fund values and Changes in government health policies, for example on the use changing mortality.
of generic drugs or reimbursement prices, could adversely affect UBM operates a number of pension plans that provide defined pharmaceutical companies.
This could lead to reduced spending benefits.
While the UK plans are generally closed to new by pharmaceutical companies on advertising.
This we have seen employees, the U. S. plan continues, offering some of the features in a number of countries, notably in the US.
The cost of providing these benefits to Regulatory pressures may also affect pharmaceutical existing and former employees is subject to changes in the companies ability or willingness to sponsor ongoing medical pension fund values and changing demographics, including education events.
We monitor developments in public policy in longer life expectancy among beneficiaries.
We believe that all our major markets and work with our customers to ensure we sustained falls in equity markets and reductions in bond yields can deliver the best possible media product while meeting all have and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the regulatory obligations.
value of our pension funds.
We may therefore be required to recognise additional charges to our profit and loss account to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans.
There is an exposure in the event that asset returns are insufficient to cover changes in the schemes liabilities over time.
This has been mitigated by active management of the investment portfolio and additional contributions have been made to the UK schemes.
UBM has acted to close its defined benefit schemes to new members and neither the CEO or CFO belongs to such a scheme.
At 31 December 2007 UBMs pension schemes showed a net surplus of 36.2m on an IAS 19 accounting basis.
