Risk Factors, Seasonality and Outlook Risk Factors Expected benefits from cost reduction initiatives may not be realised.
Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory The Group has entered into several cost reduction initiatives principally environment could adversely affect the Groups relating to the outsourcing of IT application development and maintenance, data centre consolidation, supply chain management and a business business.
transformation programme to implement a single, integrated operating Because the Group has ventures in a large number of geographic areas, it model using one ERP system.
However, there is no assurance that the full must comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate and extent of the anticipated benefits will be realised.
supervise the licensing, construction and operation of its telecommunications networks and services.
In particular, there are agencies which regulate and Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the mobile of certain Group assets could result in impairment.
Decisions by regulators regarding the granting, Vodafone completes a review of the carrying value of its assets annually, or amendment or renewal of licences, to the Group or to third parties, could more frequently where the circumstances require, to assess whether those adversely affect the Groups future operations in these geographic areas.
The carrying values can be supported by the net present value of future cash Group cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in flows derived from such assets.
This review examines the continued which it operates will not issue telecommunications licences to new appropriateness of the assumptions in respect of highly uncertain matters operators whose services will compete with it.
In addition, other changes in upon which the carrying values of certain of the Groups assets are based.
the regulatory environment concerning the use of mobile phones may lead This includes an assessment of discount rates and long term growth rates, to a reduction in the usage of mobile phones or otherwise adversely affect the future technological developments and timing and quantum of future Group.
Additionally, decisions by regulators and new legislation, such as those capital expenditure, as well as several factors which may affect revenues relating to international roaming charges and call termination rates, could and profitability identified within other Risk Factors in this section such as affect the pricing for, or adversely affect the revenue from, the services the intensifying competition, pricing pressures, regulatory changes and the Group offers.
Further details on the regulatory framework in certain countries timing for introducing new products or services.
Due to the Groups and regions in which the Group operates, and on regulatory proceedings can substantial carrying value of goodwill under IFRS and licences under US be found in Business Regulation.
GAAP, the revision of any of these assumptions to reflect current or anticipated changes in operations or the financial condition of the Group Increased competition may reduce market share or could lead to an impairment in the carrying value of certain assets in the Group.
Whilst impairment does not impact reported cash flows, it does revenue.
result in a non-cash charge on the income statement, and thus no The Group faces intensifying competition.
Competition could lead to a assurance can be given that any future impairments would not affect the reduction in the rate at which the Group adds new customers and to a Companys reported distributable reserves and therefore its ability to make decrease in the size of the Groups market share as customers choose to distributions to its shareholders or repurchase its shares.
See Performance receive telecommunications services, or other competing services, from Critical Accounting Estimates.
Examples include, but are not limited to, competition from internet-based services and MVNOs.
The Groups geographic expansion may increase The focus of competition in many of the Groups markets continues to shift exposure to unpredictable economic, political and from customer acquisition to customer retention as the market for mobile legal risks.
telecommunications has become increasingly penetrated.
Customer Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets historically are deactivations are measured by the Groups churn rate.
There can be no less predictable than in countries with more developed institutional assurance that the Group will not experience increases in churn rates, structures.
As the Group increasingly enters into emerging markets, the particularly as competition intensifies.
An increase in churn rates could value of the Groups investments may be adversely affected by political, adversely affect profitability because the Group would experience lower economic and legal developments which are beyond the Groups control.
revenue and additional selling costs to replace customers.
Expected benefits from acquisitions may not be realised.
Increased competition has also led to declines in the prices the Group charges The Group has made significant acquisitions which are expected to deliver for its mobile services and is expected to lead to further price declines in the benefits resulting from the anticipated growth potential of the relevant future.
Competition could also lead to an increase in the level at which the markets.
However, there is no assurance as to the successful integration of Group must provide subsidies for handsets.
Additionally, the Group could face companies acquired by the Group or the extent to which the anticipated increased competition should there be an award of additional licences in benefits resulting from the acquisitions will be achieved.
jurisdictions in which a member of the Group already has a licence.
The Companys strategic objectives may be impeded Delays in the development of handsets and network by the fact that it does not have a controlling interest compatibility and components may hinder the in some of its ventures.
Some of the Groups interests in mobile licences are held through entities in The Groups operations depend in part upon the successful deployment of which it is a significant but not controlling owner.
Under the governing continuously evolving telecommunications technologies.
The Group uses documents for some of these partnerships and corporations, certain key technologies from a number of vendors and makes significant capital matters such as the approval of business plans and decisions as to the timing expenditures in connection with the deployment of such technologies.
and amount of cash distributions require the consent of the partners.
In There can be no assurance that common standards and specifications will others, these matters may be approved without the Companys consent.
The be achieved, that there will be inter-operability across Group and other Company may enter into similar arrangements as it participates in ventures networks, that technologies will be developed according to anticipated formed to pursue additional opportunities.
Although the Group has not been schedules, that they will perform according to expectations or that they will materially constrained by the nature of its mobile ownership interests, no achieve commercial acceptance.
The introduction of software and other assurance can be given that its partners will not exercise their power of veto network components may also be delayed.
The failure of vendor or their controlling influence in any of the Groups ventures in a way that will performance or technology performance to meet the Groups expectations hinder the Groups corporate objectives and reduce any anticipated cost or the failure of a technology to achieve commercial acceptance could savings or revenue enhancement resulting from these ventures.
result in additional capital expenditures by the Group or a reduction in profitability.
58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Expected benefits from investment in networks, Outlook The measures presented in the Groups outlook have been derived from licences and new technology may not be realised.
amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS but are not themselves IFRS The Group has made substantial investments in the acquisition of licences measures.
Further disclosures are provided in Performance Non-GAAP and in its mobile networks, including the roll out of 3G networks.
The Group Information on pages to 62 to 63 and below for proportionate measures.
expects to continue to make significant investments in its mobile networks due to increased usage and the need to offer new services and greater 2007 financial year functionality afforded by new or evolving telecommunications technologies.
The following sets out the outlook provided by the Group in respect of the Accordingly, the rate of the Groups capital expenditures in future years could 2007 financial year and the Groups actual performance: remain high or exceed that which it has experienced to date.
2007 2007 There can be no assurance that the introduction of new services will Actual Performance Outlook proceed according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for Organic proportionate mobile 6.3% 5% to 6.5% 1 new services will justify the cost of setting up and providing new services.
revenue growth Failure or a delay in the completion of networks and the launch of new services, or increases in the associated costs, could have a material adverse Organic proportionate 0.9 percentage points Around 1 percentage 1 effect on the Groups operations.
mobile EBITDA margin lower than 2006 point lower than financial year 2006 financial year The Group may experience a decline in revenue or 2 Free cash flow 6.1 billion 4.7 to 5.2 billion profitability notwithstanding its efforts to increase revenue from the introduction of new services.
Capitalised fixed asset 4.2 billion 4.2 to 4.6 billion As part of its strategy, the Group will continue to offer new services to its additions existing customers and seek to increase non-voice service revenue as a Notes: percentage of total service revenue.
However, the Group may not be able to 1 Assumes constant exchange rates and excludes the impact of business acquisitions and disposals introduce commercially these new services, or may experience significant for the financial measures and adjusted to reflect like-for-like ownership levels in both years.
delays due to problems such as the availability of new mobile handsets, 2 Amount includes 0.5 billion benefit from timing differences and the deferral of payments higher than anticipated prices of new handsets or availability of new originally expected in the year and is stated after 0.4 billion of tax payments, including associated interest, in respect of a number of long standing tax issues.
In addition, even if these services are introduced in accordance with expected time schedules, there is no assurance that 2008 financial year revenue from such services will increase ARPU or maintain profit margins.
The following sets out the Groups outlook for the 2008 financial year: The Groups business and its ability to retain customers 1 2 2008 Outlook and attract new customers may be impaired by actual Revenue growth 33.3 billion to 34.1 billion or perceived health risks associated with the Adjusted operating profit 9.3 billion to 9.8 billion transmission of radiowaves from mobile telephones, transmitters and associated equipment.
Capitalised fixed asset additions 4.7 billion to 5.1 billion Concerns have been expressed in some countries where the Group operates that the electromagnetic signals emitted by mobile telephone handsets and Free cash flow 4.0 billion to 4.5 billion base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing Notes: guideline levels and may interfere with the operation of electronic equipment.
1 This Outlook section contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the US Private In addition, as described under the heading Legal proceedings in note 31 to Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Please refer to Cautionary Statement Regarding the Consolidated Financial Statements, several mobile industry participants, Forward-Looking Statements set out on page 61.
2 Includes assumption of average foreign exchange rates for the 2008 financial year of including the Company and Verizon Wireless, have had lawsuits filed against approximately Euro 1.47:1 and US$1.98:1.
A substantial majority of the Groups revenue, them alleging various health consequences as a result of mobile phone adjusted operating profit, capitalised fixed asset additions and free cash flow is denominated in usage, including brain cancer.
While the Company is not aware that such currencies other than sterling, the Groups reporting currency.
health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with radiowave transmission will not The Groups outlook statement now reflects only statutory financial impair its ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce measures.
Following completion of the Hutchison Essar transaction in India mobile telecommunications usage or result in further litigation.
In such event, on 8 May 2007, its results will be fully consolidated into the Groups results because of the Groups strategic focus on mobile telecommunications, its from that date and are therefore reflected in the outlook measures set out business and results of operations may be more adversely affected than those below.
The Groups outlook ranges reflect current expectations for average of other companies in the telecommunications sector.
foreign exchange rates for the 2008 financial year.
The Groups business would be adversely affected by Operating conditions are expected to continue to be challenging in Europe, with competition remaining intense and ongoing regulatory pressure, the non-supply of equipment and support services by notwithstanding continued positive trends in data revenue and voice usage a major supplier.
Increasing market penetration continues to result in overall strong Companies within the Group source their network infrastructure and related growth prospects for the EMAPA region.
support services from third party suppliers.
The removal from the market of one or more of these third party suppliers would adversely affect the Groups Group revenue is expected to be in the range of 33.3 billion to operations and could result in additional capital expenditures by the Group.
Adjusted operating profit is expected to be in the range of 9.3 billion to 9.8 billion, with the Group EBITDA margin lower year on year.
Total depreciation and amortisation charges are anticipated to be around Seasonality 5.8 billion to 5.9 billion, higher than the 2007 financial year, primarily as a The Groups financial results have not, historically, been subject to result of the Hutchison Essar acquisition.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 59 P Per erf formanc ormance e Risk Factors, Seasonality and Outlook continued The Group expects capitalised fixed asset additions to be in the range of Proportionate information includes results from the Groups equity 4.7 billion to 5.1 billion, including in excess of 1.0 billion in India.
accounted investments and other investments.
The Group may not have control over the revenue, expenses or cash flows of these investments and Reported free cash flow is expected to be in the range of 4.0 billion to may only be entitled to cash from dividends received from these entities.
This is after taking into account 0.6 billion of expected tax payments and associated interest in respect of the potential settlement of a Reconciliations of proportionate mobile revenue and EBITDA margin, and number of long standing tax issues, a net cash outflow of approximately their respective reported growth rates in the 2007 financial year, to the 0.8 billion anticipated in respect of India and 0.5 billion from deferred closest equivalent GAAP measures are as follows: payments and the reversal of certain timing differences that benefited the Reported 2007 financial year.
The outlook for free cash flow is stated including the 2007 2006 growth impact of known spectrum or licence payments only.
m m% Proportionate revenue 43,613 41,355 The Group still expects that significant cash tax and associated interest Mobile telecommunications 42,273 40,217 5.1 payments may be made in the next two years in respect of long standing tax Other operations and intercompany 1,340 1,138 issues, although the timing of such payments remains uncertain.
Within this Minority share in subsidiary undertakings 829 666 timeframe, the Group continues to anticipate possible resolution to the Group share in associated undertakings application of the UK Controlled Foreign Company legislation to the Group.
and trade investments 13,338 12,671 Revenue GAAP measure 31,104 29,350 6.0 The adjusted effective tax rate percentage is expected to be in the low 30s, slightly higher than the 2007 financial year and consistent with the Groups Proportionate EBITDA 16,882 16,380 longer term expectations.
Mobile telecommunications 16,592 16,186 Other operations 290 194 Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe Minority share in subsidiary undertakings 279 224 The Group continues to target delivering benefits equivalent to at least 1% Group share in associated undertakings additional revenue market share in the year compared with the 2005 and trade investments 5,201 4,838 financial year.
Capitalised mobile fixed asset additions are expected to be Depreciation and amortisation 5,111 4,709 10% of mobile revenue for the year for the total of the Europe region and Loss on disposal of property, plant common functions.
and equipment 43 69 Share of results in associated The Group also expects mobile operating expenses to be broadly stable for undertakings 2,728 2,428 the total of the Europe region and common functions when compared with Impairment losses 11,600 23,515 the 2006 financial year on an organic basis, excluding the potential impact Other income and expense 502 15 from developing and delivering new services and from any business Operating loss GAAP measure 1,564 14,084 restructuring costs.
Percentage points Proportionate measures Proportionate mobile EBITDA margin 39.2% 40.2% 1.0 Proportionate presentation is not a measure recognised under IFRS and is not intended to replace the full year results prepared in accordance with Organic growth rates in proportionate mobile revenue and EBITDA margin in IFRS.
However, since significant entities in which the Group has an interest the 2007 financial year are reconciled to reported growth rates as follows: are not consolidated, proportionate information is provided as supplemental data to facilitate a more detailed understanding and EBITDA assessment of the full year results prepared in accordance with IFRS.
margin Revenue Percentage % points IFRS requires consolidation of entities which the Group has the power to Reported growth 5.1 1.0 control and allows either proportionate consolidation or equity accounting Impact of acquisitions, disposals and foreign for joint ventures.
IFRS also requires equity accounting for interests in which exchange movements 1.2 0.1 the Group has significant influence but not a controlling interest.
Organic growth 6.3 0.9 The proportionate presentation, below, is a pro rata consolidation, which reflects the Groups share of revenue and expenses in entities, both consolidated and unconsolidated, in which the Group has an ownership interest.
Proportionate results are calculated by multiplying the Groups ownership interest in each entity by each entitys results.
Proportionate presentation of financial information differs in material respects to the proportionate consolidation adopted by the Group under IFRS for its joint ventures.
60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
