Directors Report Business Review Risk Factors Any business undertaking will involve risk.
Many risk factors are The Directors believe that digital entertainment also offers common to any business no matter what sector it operates in.
opportunities for the Group and it has developed strategies The Groups approach to Financial Risk Management is set out to participate including in Woolworths a multichannel retail offer in the Notes to the Group Accounts.
and investment in digital rights and online delivery technology within Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing.
The Directors consider that certain key risks and uncertainties however are more germane to Woolworths Group and the However, the growth of digital markets and the increasing markets in which its various businesses operate.
As part of the uptake of Broadband access will continue to place pressure Business Review, an assessment of such factors is set out below: on the Groups participation in traditional entertainment retail and distribution channels.
Seasonality The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In particular, in recent years the retail landscape has seen significant changes and The Groups business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups trends in retail and consumer behaviour and spending which are most important trading period in terms of sales, profitability and challenging for the Woolworths Mainchain.
The Group has faced cash flow has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected and expects to face increased competition from existing UK performance in this period may have an adverse impact on general and specialist retailers, food retailers that have expanded results for the full-year which may also result in excess inventory, and are further expanding into general merchandising, foreign especially in seasonal merchandise that is difficult to liquidate.
retailers entering the UK market and newly formed competitors.
To a lesser extent a lower than expected turnover over the Easter Further, the growth of internet retailing and out-of-town shopping period may also have an adverse effect on the Groups business has required and will require the Group to adopt and invest in and financial condition.
new strategies to remain competitive.
Damage to Reputation or Brands The Directors believe that where Woolworths offers customers The Woolworths name is a key asset of the business and product innovation, exclusivity and value-for-money, it can maintaining the reputation of the brand is key to the success of the continue to combat these pressures.
However, actions taken by Group.
The many separate product lines of general merchandise competitors as well as action taken by the Group to maintain its handled by the Group means the supply chain is complex and is competitiveness and its reputation for value, have placed and will subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing continue to place pressure on the Groups merchandise pricing, issues of health and safety, packaging and labelling, pollution and margins and profitability, which have had in the past and could other environmental factors.
have in the future, an adverse effect on the Groups business and financial condition.
The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal and regulatory control processes both in-house and externally to advise and take 2.
Growth of the Digital Entertainment Market action on existing and emerging risk management issues.
A key driver of footfall and sales within Woolworths stores and However, these systems cannot guarantee compliance or fully the core stock-in-trade for Entertainment UK, THE, Bertram protect against quality, regulatory, safety and environmental risk and 2entertain is physical entertainment media ie CDs, DVDs, in the supply chain.
The Group is therefore potentially vulnerable Books and Games.
to an event or circumstances adversely affecting the supply chain or merchandise which gives rise to liability claims and or In recent years, technology advances and changing consumer reputational damage.
Substantial erosion in the value of the preferences have given rise to new markets providing delivery Woolworths name could have an adverse effect on the Groups of music, films, games and books to portable players and to the business and financial condition.
home via digital delivery, bypassing the purchase of traditional physical media platforms.
This trend may result in decreased demand for such products in stores.
Decreased sales of home entertainment products at retail or wholesale level may have an adverse effect on the Groups business and financial condition.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Risk Factors 18
