pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued During the year, the Committee received advice from our Consultation with our major shareholders and the ABI Chief Executive Officer, our Company Secretary and our following a review of the remuneration policy and structures Head of HR Yell UK.
The Committee also received advice from for our executive directors Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of remuneration policy.
Tax The issuing of quarterly press releases and half yearly reports and risk management services were also received from Announcements made through the London Stock Exchange, Deloitte & Touche LLP by Yell during the year.
where our shares are listed Our Annual General Meeting, which gives all our shareholders the opportunity to hear at first hand from Our Remuneration Report appears on pages 66 to 74. our Board of Directors and to raise questions.
All proposed resolutions are put to a poll vote.
Shareholders who might Nomination Committee not be able to attend the meeting are encouraged to vote Our Nomination Committee is chaired by Lyndon Lea and its by proxy other members are Charles Carey, John Coghlan and John A section dedicated to our shareholders on the Companys Condron.
Charles Carey resigned from the Committee with corporate website, www.
The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Risk management Board, the retirement and or appointment of directors and In this section we set out how we manage potential risks and ensuring that the Board has the right blend of skills and uncertainties that could have a material effect on the Groups experience.
long-term performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results.
We have quantified risks During the reporting period, following our announcement in arising from market fluctuations and our use of estimates October 2006 of Charles Careys retirement with effect from under the heading Sensitivity analyses at the end of this 31 March 2007, the Board conducted an extensive but informal section.
search for a replacement non-executive director.
While neither an external search agency nor open advertising were used in The discussions regarding financial information in this the appointment of Tim Bunting, the Committee was satisfied business review should be read in conjunction with the that his appointment would bring to the Board the audited financial statements.
Readers are cautioned that appropriate combination of skills and qualifications.
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results During the reporting year, the Committee met once.
may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.
Relations with shareholders Our Company is committed to ongoing communication Risk management processes with its shareholders.
This was achieved through: We undertake various activities within a risk management Regular dialogue and presentations throughout the year framework to ensure that risk and uncertainty are properly to the institutional investors, such as our Investors Forum managed and that appropriate internal controls are in place: which, this year, took place on 7 November 2006 in the US.
The directors have overall responsibility for establishing Investor presentations were also made in respect of the and maintaining the systems of internal control and risk acquisition of Yell Publicidad.
These presentations were management, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These subsequently made available on our website systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the www.
com risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss 34 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued We carry out an annual detailed risk assessment to identify advertising campaign for directories for many years, simplified the nature and extent of operational and financial risks the product range and rate card, and begun to focus sales on facing the Group and consider the likelihood of these risks our win, keep and grow strategy.
In all our markets we focus materialising.
We implement mitigation plans where we on the value of our offering to advertisers relative to the value believe they are appropriate.
This ongoing process has been offered by competitors.
in place for the reporting period and up to the date of approval of this annual report At present the majority of our revenue comes from printed We have developed a risk-based internal audit plan to classified directories.
Competition is increasing from evaluate the overall provision of assurance provided by the alternative channels of advertising such as the internet and processes managing each key risk mobile services.
Our channel-neutral strategy provides The Audit Committee and senior management regularly opportunities to widen our customer base as we continue to review the risk assessment and internal audit plan develop our products.
We monitor changes in technology and We have voluntarily designed and implemented financial user preferences to identify new or enhanced channels of reporting controls to meet the standards required of a UK advertising.
We also invest in improving our existing internet, listed company complying with the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have fully documented the systems, processes and key controls that produce financial reporting.
We update our In the 2007 financial year, 28% of the Groups revenue Yellow documentation and test the identified key controls annually.
Pages revenue in the UK was subject to regulation, compared This testing is in addition to, and runs parallel with, the to 37% during the 2006 financial year.
This regulation internal audit plan and risk assessment programme considerably reduced our ability to respond to competitive The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has pressures by restricting the introduction of innovative product completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the initiatives and pricing flexibility.
In addition, the price cap system of internal controls in accordance with the guidance limited price increases at RPI-6%.
The Competition Commission of the Turnbull Report updated October 2005, and is has ruled that from April 2008 the pricing formula will be satisfied that it complies with that guidance replaced with RPI-0% and most of the marketing restrictions will be lifted.
These changes will allow us to respond more Strategic risk factors effectively to future competitive pressures.
A review of the new The Group operates in competitive markets.
In the US we have undertakings is planned for three years time.
We will continue seen a significant increase in the numbers of directories to present our case that regulation is not justified in this launched against us, both by incumbents, particularly competitive market.
companion directories, and independent directory publishers.
In addition we believe that the incumbents are offering more Our acquisition strategy is focused on businesses where we advertising at similar prices in print and online.
We are can add value to our Group through a combination of addressing the competitive forces as rapidly as they arise synergies and transferral of best practice.
As part of our through our products and our sales.
strategy for growth, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and directory launches into new In all our markets we compete by ensuring our products and markets.
We have considerable experience of integrating new sales processes are tailored to the needs of our customers businesses into the Group, giving us confidence that we can and users.
In Spain we have reinvested in usage with the first mitigate execution risk.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 35 pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued Operational risk factors Our trademarks and intellectual property rights, such as our A significant part of our revenue comes from selling Yellow Pages and Yell.
com brand names in the UK, Paginas advertising to small and medium-sized businesses that tend to Amarillas in Spain and our Yellow Book brand name in the US, have limited financial resources and experience higher failure are important to our business.
We rely upon a combination of rates than large businesses.
It is a normal and necessary copyright and trademark laws, contractual arrangements and business practice for us to offer credit terms to many of them.
licensing agreements to establish and protect these rights.
We mitigate the risks of incurring bad debts and longer If necessary we will use all legal remedies available to protect collection times through tailored credit vetting procedures.
In new markets we accept higher levels of customer churn and bad debts, because this is a necessary investment in Although we take steps to mitigate the following risks, we do establishing an initial presence.
The diversity and size of our not consider them to be material to the financial standing of customer base mitigate material shifts in customer churn and the Yell Group either because of their size or our ability to increases in bad debt expense.
mitigate the potentially negative effects: Legal claims against our business for defamation, breach We rely on our sales force, which comprises 54% of our of privacy, or employment practices employees, to sell our products and drive revenue growth Failure of current or new information systems that could in our competitive markets.
We aim to recruit and retain impair our collection, processing or storage of data and high quality people through our remuneration, training the day-to-day management of our business and development programmes.
Loss of the services of our senior managers who are key to the successful implementation of our business strategy We rely on our suppliers who work in partnership with us to in the near to medium term deliver our products.
We have long-standing relationships with most of our key suppliers, the most important of which Financial risk factors are UPM-Kymmene Corporation, Pindar Set Ltd, Quebecor At 31 March 2007, our net debt was 5.2 times pro forma World and RR Donnelley.
Paper is our single largest raw adjusted EBITDA.
This high debt to earnings ratio carries material expense, but in the 2007 financial year paper costs debt obligations and covenants.
These could restrict were equivalent to only 6% of Group revenue.
We limit our flexibility in our use of financial resources to: exposure to market fluctuations through contracts and Carry out our business pricing arrangements with these suppliers.
Finance working capital, capital expenditures or other business opportunities: or React to changing market conditions, changes in our business or changes in the industry in which we operate 36 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued We have access to a 400 million revolving credit facility fluctuations will depend on the mix of foreign currency and that we can use to mitigate the potential risks above.
A breach pounds sterling denominated indebtedness and the extent of the covenants under the financing arrangements could of any hedging arrangements: cause all debt under those arrangements to become due.
The composition of our debt in 2007 partially hedged We carry out regular reviews of our debt obligations and exchange rate fluctuations, because 1,531.1 million or 41.1% debt covenants against our business plans as a means of of our debt and 111.5 million or 47.5% of our net interest identifying this and other future material risks that we expense were denominated in US dollars and 821.2 million should mitigate.
or 22.0% of our debt and 36.7 million or 15.6% of our net interest expense were denominated in euros We do not currently intend to use derivative instruments to Market-related risk factors hedge any foreign exchange translation rate risk relating to Interest is payable under our senior credit facilities at a foreign currency-denominated financial liabilities, although variable rate.
We could be adversely affected if the interest we will continue to review this practice rates we pay were to rise significantly: The hedging arrangements that we put in place mitigate our future exposure to interest rate fluctuations by Financial reporting and related risk factors effectively reducing the amount of variable-rate We recognise the revenue and costs directly related to sales, indebtedness that we have outstanding.
At the end of each production, printing and distribution from advertisement sales quarter we review our future interest payment obligations for a printed directory edition when we have completed in assessing the appropriate amount of hedging for at least delivery of that directory edition.
Because the number of the next 27 months editions and type of directories are not evenly distributed We have fixed interest on at least 90% of the indebtedness during the year or published in the same quarter every year, under the term bank facilities using interest rate swaps over our revenue and profits do not arise evenly over the year: the period to June 2009 and around 50% thereafter until During our 2007 financial year the four financial quarters March 2011 accounted for, respectively, 18%, 23%, 28% and 31% of At 31 March 2007, we had 16.7 million net gains on interest Group revenue rate swaps that were available for recognition as a Different directories may grow at different rates, such that reduction of interest expense when settled in the future growth may not be evenly distributed between quarters We sometimes need to rephase our timing of distributions Our financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, into a later period for operational reasons, such as when and changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and we rescope directories or integrate acquisitions pounds sterling and the euro and pounds sterling will affect We mitigate the risk of misunderstanding the nature of our the translation of the results of our businesses with US dollar growth by reporting an analysis of our revenue growth on a or euro functional currencies.
Our exposure to currency like-for-like basis Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 37 pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued Operating profit, EBITDA and other financial indicators Bad debts as a percentage of printed directories revenue in generally relied on by investors to evaluate a companys the US at 6.7% reflects the growth strategy in the US, when financial performance may not, in our case, reflect actual compared to the 2.9% in Spain and 3.1% in the UK where the cash received or expended during a given period: directories are more mature.
Our consolidated bad debt The period in which we recognise revenue may be different expense was 99.3 million during the 2007 financial year to the period in which our advertisers receive and pay our and at 4.8% of revenue was lower than the previous year invoices Other non-current intangible assets and plant and The period in which we recognise expenses may be different equipment are long-lived assets that are amortised over to the period in which we pay the supplier their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on managements We mitigate the risk of misunderstanding the nature estimates of the period over which the assets will generate of our growth in profits and cash flow by reporting a revenue.
The values of property, plant, equipment and assets reconciliation of our operating profit to EBITDA and with indefinite lives are reviewed annually for impairment.
our EBITDA to operating cash flow Other non-current intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable have to make subjective and complex judgements, giving and at the end of the first full year following acquisition.
due consideration to materiality, when estimating inherently Historically, we have not reduced the value of any assets as a uncertain amounts included in the financial statements.
result of the impairment analyses, nor have we realised large We mitigate the risk of results being materially different by gains or losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment regularly reviewing our estimates and updating them when The determination of our obligation and expense for appropriate.
A description of what we consider to be the pensions is dependent on the selection of assumptions that most significant estimates follows.
Actual results could be are used by our actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those different, but we do not believe materially different unless assumptions include, amongst others, the rate at which otherwise indicated: future pension payments are discounted to the balance sheet Receivables are reduced by an allowance for amounts that date, inflation expectations, the expected long-term rate of may not be collectible in the future.
We continuously monitor return on plan assets and average expected increase in collections and payments from our customers and maintain compensation over and above inflation.
We believe that our a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our assumptions are appropriate because we regularly seek historical experience and any specific customer collection advice from experts.
However, differences in our actual issues that we have identified.
We have demonstrated experience or changes in our assumptions can materially the ability to make reasonable and reliable estimates affect the amount of our future pension obligations, future of allowances for doubtful accounts based on significant valuation adjustments in the statement of recognised historical experience income and expense and our future employee expenses 38 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued We value the portfolio of assets held by the defined benefit Sensitivity analyses pension scheme in the UK at market value when calculating The following analyses illustrate the effect that specific our net pension deficit.
Values will increase and decrease as changes could have had on our results in the 2007 financial markets rise and fall.
The trustees and management have year.
The analyses are only valid when all other factors are an agreed strategy to mitigate the risk of having insufficient held constant.
The following discussion of estimated amounts funds, if markets fall.
The trustees annually match the generated from the sensitivity analysis is forward-looking and low-risk asset portfolio against the cash outflows for the involves risks and uncertainties.
Caution should be exercised following twelve years.
Against longer term cash pay-outs in relying on these analyses: they match a combination of investments in index-linked A 10% fluctuation in paper prices during 2007 could have gilts to mitigate inflation risk, and higher risk assets to get changed our Group operating profit by approximately higher rates of growth.
The trustees also work with 13 million management to ensure sufficient assets will be available If variable interest rates had been a full percentage point to settle obligations extending beyond twelve years higher or lower with no change in foreign exchange rates, The determination of our obligation and expense for taxes then the interest payable with respect to our variable-rate requires an interpretation of tax law.
We seek appropriate, indebtedness in 2007 could have been 2.0 million higher competent and professional tax advice before making any or lower taking into account our hedging arrangements, judgements on tax matters.
Whilst we believe that our or 37.8 million higher or lower without taking into account judgements are prudent and appropriate, significant hedging arrangements differences in our actual experience may materially affect If the effective US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate in our future tax charges 2007 had been 10% higher or lower, then basic earnings per The determination of our obligation and expense for the share could have been 4% lower or 5% higher, respectively exceptional lawsuits was based on managements best If the effective euro to pounds sterling exchange rate in the estimates after taking into consideration appropriate period from 1 August 2006 to 31 March 2007 had been 10% advice from legal experts.
The amounts could be different higher or lower, then basic earnings per share could have when settled been 1% lower or higher, respectively We recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from If the average exchange rate of the US dollar in 2007 as temporary differences where we have a taxable benefit or measured against the pound sterling had been 10% higher obligation in the future as a result of past events.
We record or lower, with no change in variable rates of interest, then deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe they are the interest payable in the 2007 financial year could have more likely than not to be realised.
Should we determine been approximately 10 million lower or 12 million in the future that we would be able to realise deferred tax higher, respectively assets in excess of our recorded amount or that our If the average exchange rate of the euro in 2007 as liabilities are different to the amounts we recorded, then measured against the pound sterling had been 10% higher we would increase or decrease income as appropriate or lower, with no change in variable rates of interest, then in the period such determination was made the interest payable in the 2007 financial year could have been approximately 2 million lower or 3 million higher, respectively Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 39 pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued If our allowance for credit losses as a percentage of revenue The value of the pension obligations at 31 March 2007 had been 1% higher or lower in 2007, then profit before tax was calculated on the basis that the real interest rate at would have varied by approximately 21 million the balance sheet date was 2.1%, which is the difference If the useful economic lives of intangible assets had been between the discount rate and expected inflation.
longer or shorter by an average of one year during the year The discount rate and expected inflation are determined by ended 31 March 2007, then our amortisation charge could reference to specific types of debt instruments being traded have been approximately 14 million lower or higher, in the open market.
Increasing or decreasing the assumed respectively real interest rate to 2.2% or 2.0% per annum, respectively, Our depreciation charge could have been approximately would decrease or increase the present value of the total 5 million lower if the useful lives of plant and equipment pension obligation by approximately 8.5 million.
The effect had been longer by an average of one year, or approximately on the market value of assets cannot be estimated because 11 million higher if the useful lives had been an average the values of the schemes investments do not always of one year shorter change in line with changes in real interest rates The impairment analysis of goodwill is based on discounted The reported pension obligation was determined on cash flow analyses of the business plans for each cash assumed life expectancies for men and women who have generating unit projected indefinitely into the future.
not yet retired of 26.5 and 29.4 years, respectively, from the The analyses are sensitive to the assumptions of the local date of retirement at age 60.
The assumed life expectancy weighted average cost of capital as the discount rate and for men and women who have retired is 25.5 and 28.3 years, expected growth in local gross domestic product as terminal respectively, from the date they retired at age 60.
We growth rate, both of which we determine from external estimate that an increase in life expectancy of one year sources.
We believe that both assumptions were more for all could have increased our reported pension deficit prudent than our internal plans would have warranted.
by approximately 7.5 million If the assumed discount rate had been 1% higher for all cash The reported pension obligation was determined on the generating units, then only the goodwill allocated to our assumption that the average annual rate of future above operations in Peru and Argentina would have been impaired inflation increases in salaries, or real salary increases, will 3 million each.
If the terminal growth rates had been 1% be 1.5%.
Increasing or decreasing the rate of assumed real lower for all cash generating units, then only the goodwill salary increases to 1.6% or 1.4% per annum, respectively, allocated to our operations in Peru and Argentina would could have increased or decreased our reported pension have been impaired 2 million each deficit by approximately 3 million 40 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007
