l o r t n o c d n a Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information g n i r o t I i n n d o e o m i n t t a i fi u c l a a v t i E o n Directors report Business review Risk management and principal risks The effective management of risk is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategy and objectives.
Risk management within BAE Systems Board review Reporting Monitoring Board Committee review Executive Committee review Audit Committee review Corporate Responsibility Committee review Reporting Monitoring Assurance Self-assessment Operational Framework Organisation Governance Delegated Authorities Culture Core Business Processes Mandated Policies Business risk management Identification Evaluation At least annually, each business Risk exposure is comprehensively and function undertakes a full reviewed and the risks prioritised review of potential risks in relation to the achievement of Risks are recorded in a register business objectives explaining the event s with Risk evaluation is documented in cause and effect statements controlled risk registers showing: prompting effective mitigation the risks that have been strategies identified Risk owners are allocated who characteristics of the risk have authority and responsibility the basis for determining for assessing and managing mitigation strategy the risk necessary review and monitoring Analysis Risks are analysed for impact Mitigation and probability to determine Implementation of action plans to exposure to the business manage, or respond to, the risks Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review Monitoring and control Risks and plans are monitored and regularly and rigorously reviewed with significant risks immediately notified through the business reporting functions Key risks are reported through the Integrated Business Plan, twice yearly through the Operational Assurance Statement self-assessment and at Quarterly Business Reviews The Executive Committee conducts risk workshops to analyse and allocate management responsibility for the management of the most significant non-financial risks to the Group The Board and the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees review risk on a regular basis 44 www.
baesyste ms. com s M i i s t i y g l a a t n i A o n l o r t n o c d n a g n i r o t i n o m Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group management of risks Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to the delivery In order to assist the Committees and the Board in their review, the of the Groups objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder Group has a self assessment Operational Assurance Statement OAS value and protection of its reputation.
The Groups approach to risk process.
The OAS is in two parts: a self-assessment of compliance with management is to remove or reduce the likelihood and effect of risks appropriate parts of the OF: and a report showing the key risks for the before they occur, and deal effectively with problems if they arise.
Together with independent reviews undertaken by Group is committed to the protection of its assets, which include human, Internal Audit, and the work of the external auditors, the OAS forms property and financial resources, through an effective risk management the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
The management of risk is linked into the Groups strategy, the Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are escalated environment in which it operates, the Groups appetite for risk and the through the management team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
delivery of the Groups business objectives.
The underlying principles are The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, that risks are continuously monitored, associated action plans reviewed, reporting and monitoring rests with line management.
Both the Audit appropriate contingencies are provisioned and this information is Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee report the reported through established management control procedures.
findings of their reviews to the Board so that the Board can form a view.
To enable this process, BAE Systems has developed a system of internal Further information on the activities of the Board and its Committees is control, the Operational Framework OF, that encompasses, amongst given in the Corporate governance section on pages 54 to 63 of this other things, the mandated policies and core business processes that report.
provide a common framework for how we do business and what it means Five core processes and 27 policies are mandated by the OF, enabling to be part of BAE Systems.
the business to respond appropriately to material risks faced by the The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively Group.
As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes managed across the Group and has delegated to the Audit Committee that are mandated in the OF are designed to manage rather than the responsibility for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Group's eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can system of internal controls.
During the year, the Executive Committee only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material has further enhanced its oversight of material non-financial risks misstatement or loss.
including, in particular, those arising in connection with safety and Further detail on these business processes and mandated policies ethical issues.
Close attention has been paid to analysing risks is given in the Internal control section of the Corporate governance associated with the conduct of international business and new policies section on page 60. and processes have been implemented seeking to provide the highest levels of assurance.
The Executive Committee advises the Corporate Responsibility Committee of all matters within the latters remit.
Internal Audit Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification procedures and control processes implemented by management.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 45 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Risk management and principal risks continued Summary of principal risks Defence spending The Group is The Groups core businesses are primarily defence-related, selling products and dependent on services directly and indirectly primarily to the US, the UK, the Saudi Arabian and defence spending other national governments.
In any single market, defence spending depends on and reductions in a complex mix of political considerations, budgetary constraints and the ability of such spending the armed forces to meet specific threats and perform certain missions.
Because could adversely of these factors, defence spending may be subject to significant fluctuations from affect the Group.
Although the Group expects growth in US defence spending to slow, it believes it is well placed to support the US Department of Defenses likely emphasis on force sustainment, readiness and affordable transformation.
The UK defence equipment budget is expected to continue to be constrained, having potential implications for the sustainability of long-term funding for future defence technologies and engineering capabilities in the UK.
Impact A decrease in defence purchases by the Groups major customers could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
Certain parts of A significant proportion of the Groups revenue comes from a small number of large the Groups contracts.
These contracts individually are typically worth or potentially worth 1bn business are or more including, but not limited to, those contracts in the Programmes & Support dependent on a business group.
Action small number of Impact The Board regularly reviews large contracts.
The loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation or termination of any one of these the Groups performance contracts, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future in these markets, and the results of operations and financial condition.
Executive continues to work closely with its customers The Groups largest The governments of the United Kingdom, the United States and the Kingdom of to ensure the Group strategy customer contracts Saudi Arabia are the Groups three largest end customers.
Any significant disruption is aligned with theirs refer are government or deterioration in the relationship with these governments and a corresponding to strategy section page 12. contracts.
reduction in government contracts would significantly reduce the Groups revenues.
Moreover, companies engaged in the supply of defence-related equipment and services to government agencies are subject to certain business risks particular to the defence industry.
These governments could unilaterally cancel, suspend or amend their contractors funding under existing contracts or eligibility for new contracts potentially at short notice.
Terms and risk sharing agreements can also be amended.
In addition, the Group, as a government contractor, is subject to financial audits and other reviews by some of its governmental customers with respect to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, government contracts.
As a result of these audits and reviews, costs and prices under these contracts may be subject to adjustment.
Impact The termination of one or more of the contracts for the Groups programmes by governments, or the failure of the relevant agencies to obtain expected funding appropriations for the Groups programmes, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
The timing of The Groups operating performance and cash flows are dependent, to a significant extent, contracts could on the award of defence contracts and its performance in delivering these contracts.
materially affect Impact the Groups Because the amounts payable under these contracts can be substantial, the award future results of or completion of one or more contracts, the timing for manufacturing and delivery operations and of products under these contracts or the failure to receive anticipated orders could financial condition.
materially affect the Groups operating results and cash flow for the periods affected.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Fixed-price contracts The Group A significant portion of the Groups revenues are derived from fixed-price contracts, Action has fixed-price although the Group has reduced its exposure to fixed-priced design and development To manage contract-related contracts.
activity which is in general more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
risks and uncertainties, An inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts is that actual performance costs may contracts are managed exceed the projected costs on which the fixed prices for such contracts are agreed.
through the application of the Groups mandated Impact Lifecycle Management LCM The Groups failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or business process at the control costs during performance of a fixed-priced contract may reduce the profitability operational level and the of such a contract or result in a loss.
consistent application of metrics is used to support the review of individual contract performance refer to page 52 for further information on LCM.
Global market The Group is BAE Systems is a global company which conducts business in a number of regions, Action exposed to including the Middle East, and, as a result, assumes certain risks associated with The Group has a risks inherent businesses with a broad geographical reach.
In some countries these risks include, balanced portfolio in operating in and are not limited to, the following: government regulations and administrative with six home markets.
policies could change quickly and restraints on the movement of capital could be imposed: governments could expropriate the Groups assets: burdensome taxes or tariffs could be introduced: political changes could lead to changes in the business environment in which the Group operates: and economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances could disrupt the Groups business activities.
Impact The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future operational performance and financial condition.
Export controls and other restrictions The Group is A portion of the Groups sales is derived from the export of its products.
Many of the Action subject to export products the Group designs and manufactures for military or dual use are considered The Group has formal controls and other to be of national strategic interest.
The export of such products outside of the systems and policies in restrictions.
jurisdictions in which they are produced is normally subject to licensing and export place to ensure adherence controls and other restrictions.
No assurance can be given that the export controls to regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject will not become more restrictive, that new generations and to identify any restrictions of the Groups products will not also be subject to similar or more stringent controls, that could adversely impact or that political factors or changing international circumstances will not result in the the Groups future activities.
Group being unable to obtain necessary export licences.
Impact Reduced access to export markets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
Failure to comply with export controls and wider regulations could expose the Group to fines and other penalties, including potential restrictions on trading.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 47 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Risk management and principal risks continued Competition The Groups Most of the Groups businesses are focused on the defence industry and subject to Action business is subject competition from multinational firms with substantial resources and capital and many The Groups strong global to significant contracts are obtained through a competitive bidding process.
The Groups ability to market positioning, balanced competition.
compete for contracts depends to a large extent on the effectiveness and innovation portfolio, leading capabilities of its research and development programmes, its ability to offer better programme and performance continue to performance than its competitors at a lower cost to its customers, and the readiness address this risk refer to page of its facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programmes for which it 12 for further information competes.
on the Groups positioning and portfolio.
Additionally, in some instances, governments direct to a single supplier all work for a particular programme, commonly known as a sole-source programme.
Although governments have historically awarded certain programmes to the Group on a solesource basis, they may in the future determine to open such programmes to a competitive bidding process.
Government contracts for defence-related products can, in certain countries, be awarded on the basis of home country preference.
Therefore, other defence companies may have an advantage over the Group for some defence-related contracts on the basis of the jurisdiction in which they are organised, where the majority of their assets are located or where their officers or directors are located.
Impact In the event that the Group is unable adequately to compete in the markets in which it operates, the Groups business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
Consortia and joint ventures The Group The Group participates in various consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings, Action is involved in exercising varying and evolving degrees of control.
While the Group seeks to The Group has formal systems consortia, joint participate only in ventures in which its interests are aligned with those of its and procedures in place to ventures and partners, the risk of disagreement is inherent in any jointly controlled entity, and monitor the performance of equity holdings particularly in those entities that require the unanimous consent of all members such business arrangements where it does with regard to major decisions, and that specify restricted rights.
and identity and manage any not have control.
Impact In the event of disagreement within a consortia, joint venture or equity holding and the business arrangement fails to meet its strategic objectives or expected benefits, the Groups business and results of operations may be adversely affected.
Pension funding The Group is The Group operates certain defined benefit pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, Action exposed to funding there is an actuarial deficit between the value of projected liabilities of these schemes The performance of the risks in relation and the value of the assets they hold.
The Group has put in place and is implementing Groups pension schemes to the defined deficit recovery plans in line with agreements reached with the respective scheme and deficit recovery plans benefits under its trustees based on actuarial advice and the valuation results.
are regularly reviewed by both pension schemes.
the Group and the Trustees of Impact the schemes taking actuarial The amount of the deficits may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including and investment advice as lower than assumed investment returns, changes in long-term interest rate and price applicable.
The results of inflation expectations, and greater than anticipated improvements in members longevity.
these reviews are discussed An increase in pension scheme deficit may require the Group to increase the amount of with the Board and appropriate cash contributions payable to these schemes, thereby reducing cash available to meet action taken refer to page the Groups other obligations or business needs.
117 for further details on the Groups retirement benefit plans.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Acquisitions The Group has The Group has experienced growth through acquisitions and continues to pursue Action experienced acquisitions in order to meet its strategic objectives.
Integrating the operations and The Group has an growth through personnel of acquired businesses is a complex process.
The Group may not be able established methodology in acquisitions.
to integrate the operations of acquired businesses with existing operations rapidly place to deliver the effective Anticipated or without encountering difficulties.
benefits of Impact The Group has an acquisitions may The diversion of management attention to integration efforts and any difficulties established policy for not be realised.
encountered in combining operations could adversely affect the Groups business.
The failure to manage growth by acquisition while at the same time maintaining adequate focus on the existing assets of the Group, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, future results of operations or financial condition.
In addition, failure to integrate acquisitions appropriately creates the risk of impairments arising on goodwill and other intangible risks.
Regional Aircraft The Group holds These aircraft are leased, or have been sold, to airline operators.
Action a number of The Groups primary action is Impact regional aircraft to operate an efficient asset Values of regional aircraft are impacted by a range of factors including the financial on its balance management organisation.
strength of regional aircraft operators, market demands for regional aircraft and the sheet and has impact of economic factors on aircraft operating costs.
Much of the leasing business provided residual was underpinned by the Reductions in the valuations of these aircraft could result in impairment charges value guarantees Groups Financial Risk against the carrying value of the aircraft or additional provisions against the in respect of Insurance Programme, which guarantees given.
certain regional makes good shortfalls in aircraft sold.
actual lease income against originally estimated future income for a 15-year period from 1998 to 2013.
Since 2006 BAE Systems and the reinsurers have been in dispute over several areas of the policy.
During 2007, agreement was reached with almost all reinsurers and settlements have been paid by them based on the net present value of estimated future claims.
Arbitration proceedings are ongoing in relation to several claims advanced by one reinsurer who has a maximum potential liability under the policy of $145m.
These claims are being vigorously defended.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 49 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Risk management and principal risks continued Laws and regulations The Group is The Groups operations are subject to numerous domestic and Action subject to risk international laws, regulations and restrictions.
Non-compliance with During the year, the Group has devoted from a failure to these laws, regulations and restrictions could expose the Group to additional resource and further enhanced comply with laws fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could have a material its mandated procedures designed to ensure and regulations.
adverse effect on the Group.
compliance with its policies relating to the conduct of international business.
The The Group has contracts and operations in many parts of the world and Executive Committee maintains a list of operates in a highly regulated environment.
The Group is subject to the approved export markets arrived at on the laws and regulations of many jurisdictions, including those of the UK basis of a market risk assessment utilising and US.
These include, without limitation, regulations relating to importinput from externally developed risk export controls, money-laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and assessments.
A panel of experts scrutinises anti-boycott provisions.
From time to time, the Group is subject to all adviser appointments within the Group.
government investigations relating to its operations.
Findings of the panel of experts are reviewed Impact by members of the Executive Committee and Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, marketing advisers or material market or programme risks are others acting on its behalf to comply with these laws and regulations discussed by the Board.
could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities resulting in The investigation by the Serious Fraud significant fines and penalties and or result in the suspension or Office into suspected false accounting debarment of the Group from government contracts for some period and corruption is continuing and the of time or suspension of the Groups export privileges.
Group continues to co-operate with this investigation.
In June 2007, the Company was notified by the US Department of Justice that it had commenced a formal investigation relating to the Groups compliance with anti-corruption laws, including its business concerning the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Exchange rates The Group is The global nature of the Groups business means it is exposed to Action exposed to volatility volatility in currency exchange rates in respect of foreign currency In order to protect itself against currency in currency denominated transactions, and the translation of net assets and fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge exchange rates.
income statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted all material firm transactional exposures, investments.
The Group is exposed to a number of foreign currencies, unless otherwise approved as an exception the most significant being the US dollar.
by the Treasury Review Management Committee, as well as to manage Impact anticipated economic cash flow exposures Significant fluctuations in exchange rates to which the Group over the medium term.
The Group aims, is exposed could have a material adverse effect on the Groups where possible, to apply hedge accounting future results of operations and financial condition.
treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency exposures.
The Group does not hedge the translation effect of exchange rate movements on the income statement or balance sheet of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments it regards as long-term investments.
Hedges are, however, undertaken in respect of investments that are not considered long term or core to the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the financial condition or business of the Group.
