08 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Principal risks and risk management The identification, assessment, pursuit and management of opportunities and the aggregation effect of lower-level risks is material.
Such reviews identify the associated risks is an integral and inseparable part of management skills the extent to which further initiatives are required, for example, to develop and processes.
These are a core element of activity throughout the Group and, specific additional risk management capability and mitigation measures.
The output from these reviews is contained in reports to the Board and as such, are especially important for stakeholders.
As referred to in the Directors report, under the heading Risk Audit Committee management on page 13, a Group-wide opportunity and risk management Furthermore, senior management at operating company and Group system underpins and assists in the delivery of this principle.
level review regularly the opportunity and risk management system and The system is founded upon a process that drives perceived opportunities its application with a view to identifying potential improvements to the and risks progressively, against formal impact and likelihood rating criteria, system and or its application.
The output from these reviews is captured in up through the management chain for review and challenge.
development plans, which are reviewed at Group level.
Progress against the In addition to a discrete review of each individual opportunity and risk, plans is reported upon three times a year to Group senior management and various exercises are carried out at Group level, three times a year, to identify the Board and Audit Committee.
Occasionally, independent third parties are key issues facing the Group as a whole, the changing risk profile facing the engaged to assist the Group with the identification and implementation of Group and emerging issues that may affect the Group, as well as to assess if potential improvements.
Risk management process Business objectives Opportunities and Benefits and risks Action plans are Risk mitigation Periodic reviews are defined risks are identified are assessed developed to delivery is reviewed up to Board level and quantified mitigate risks on an ongoing basis Principal risks and risk management External risks The Group addresses continually the impact of the external business The following table shows the key business risks, which are then addressed below.
environment, updating as appropriate its strategy and medium-term planning both at Group and operating company level.
Areas of focus include Risk group Type of risk the following: External Government policy and funding Government policy and funding risk Customer A significant proportion of the Groups revenue flows from contracts founded Strategic Bidding upon government policy and or public funding, both in the UK and overseas.
Joint venture The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to an adverse change in national Acquisition policy or funding by broadening incrementally the portfolio of dependency and Investment by diversifying on a measured and controlled basis into other areas of activity, as referred to in the Chief Executives review from page 8 of the Annual review Organisation and management People and summary financial statement.
Pension Information technology Customer risk The increasing demand from customers for innovation and the provision of Delivery and operational Asset and service delivery and professional services, whether as a discrete contract or as a component in management a contract, has been sustained.
The Group has in place its own specialist Supply chain operating company with such skills, which along with selected operating Financial companies is developing further such capabilities.
Health and safety Strategic risks Environmental Additionally, in the pursuit of business opportunities the Group is particularly aware of the potential for importing risk, whether by way of winning new contracts, forming joint ventures, acquiring businesses or investment.
Rigorous processes are therefore in place for managing such exposure within a specified opportunity and risk management framework that applies to all operating companies and Group functions, as follows: Our business 09 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Bidding risk People risk The Groups operating companies bid selectively for a large number of contracts The retention and recruitment of staff for an organisation that is continually each year and a more limited number of concession opportunities.
Tenders and growing significantly, either organically or by acquisition, is a challenge faced investment appraisals are developed in accordance with thorough processes for by the Group and the industries in which it operates.
estimating and risk identification and assessment, with particular attention to The Group utilises a range of recruitment processes relevant to specific new or unique characteristics.
They are subject to formal review and approval labour markets.
The recruitment of graduates is centrally managed and coby tender review and investment committees established at Board, sector or ordinated as is their induction and training.
operating company level depending upon the value and nature of the contract.
Remuneration and incentive policies and programmes are designed to be market competitive and, while locally determined, are centrally co-ordinated.
Joint venture risk Joint ventures are formed for contracts where to do so will strengthen the Pension risk quality of the bid and prospects of delivering a contract successfully.
Procedures The Financial review from page 4, together with Note 26 to the accounts, are in place to ensure that joint venture partners bring skills, experience and addresses the Groups pension risks.
resources that complement and add to those provided from within the Group.
Information technology risk Acquisition risk The Group is conscious of the reliance placed on IT systems as a platform Potential acquisitions are identified by the operating companies and subject for efficient delivery of day-to-day operational activities and for knowledge to review with Group management to address, inter alia, the strategic fit gathering and sharing.
Following an internal review, supported by an and the capacity of the Group to manage the projected level of growth.
independent third party review team, the Group has positioned itself to respond Group management project manages the due diligence, with the operating more rapidly to increasing demands in this area by augmenting its central company drawing on its own resources and those from other parts of the Group IT team to work with operating companies and Group functions to develop in order to ensure that the most appropriate personnel with relevant experience and deliver further improvements in line with the Groups IT and disaster and knowledge conduct the detailed due diligence.
Where necessary, specialist recovery strategies.
Post-acquisition integration is closely managed, drawing on the detailed due diligence material and integration Delivery and operational risks tracker system for each functional activity, with reviews conducted formally In delivering contracts and business improvement initiatives, rigorous processes at prescribed periods following the acquisition.
As the Group grows it are in place for managing the potential risk exposure: recognises that acquisitions may bring new approaches to opportunity and risk management from which the Group can learn and these are factored into Asset and service delivery and management risk reviews of potential improvements referred to under the introduction above.
The Group is engaged on a wide range of contracts eg asset creation, long-term maintenance, facilities management and or service contracts, Investment risk with the successful discharge of all contracts being controlled and managed The Groups basic approach is the pursuit of investment opportunities on a through the Groups operating structure.
The Groups procedures embrace limited recourse finance basis in those business sectors where it has regular and frequent reviews with an agenda centred on health, safety and appropriate experience.
It uses this platform as a basis for moving incrementally environmental performance, issues affecting delivery and the impact on costs to into new sectors with appropriate partners.
The degree of leverage associated completion and forecast revenue.
This approach is underpinned by a continuing with such investments reinforces the need for the application of a rigorous risk focus on assurance as to the effectiveness of the relevant controls.
management process drawing on standard operating procedures.
Such activity is conducted by a discrete group of personnel with extensive experience in the Supply chain risk relevant fields of activity.
The consequent delivery risk arising on investment An increasing proportion of the Groups supply base is retained in long-term activities is managed and mitigated by the careful selection of delivery and relationships based on the compatibility of their values and behaviour with the service partners.
requirements of the Group as well as product quality and price.
Financial risk Organisation and management risk The Financial review from page 4, together with Note 21 to the accounts, Similarly, a premium is placed by the Group on the review, development and addresses the Groups financial and treasury risks.
maintenance of the operating fabric and culture that is fundamental to Health, safety and environmental risks managing risks.
Attention is being paid to the following: The Group has sustained the attention it gives to HS&E, along with a continuing objective of improving its performance, as reported on in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility statement from page 44 of the Annual review and summary financial statement.
