Hagley Road, Birmingham Performance and Risk A property companys share price should reflect growth in net assets per share.
Our Companys main objective is to maximise growth in assets from increases in investment portfolio values and from retained earnings from other property related activities.
Risk is an integral part of any companys business activities and Helicals ability to identify, assess, monitor and manage each risk to which it is exposed is fundamental to its financial stability, current and future financial performance and reputation.
IPD all monthly and quarterly valued funds Ungeared returns Total Returns % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Annualised over 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years 17 years Helical 24.1 25.9 19.5 20.8 18.5 IPD Benchmark 15.8 17.8 14.9 13.3 9.7 Percentile rank 53310 0 means the top ranked fund.
14 14 Helical Bar Helical Bar plc plc Report Report & & Accounts Accounts 2 20 00 07 7 Business Review Total Shareholder Return Performance measured over 1 year 3 years 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa 1 Helical Bar plc 9.7 37.2 23.6 24.0 29.5 19.2 2 UK Equity Market 11.1 18.0 8.6 7.7 10.8 10.1 3 Listed Real Estate Sector index 22.1 31.7 23.5 14.7 16.0 10.8 4 Direct Property monthly data 15.6 18.1 15.5 13.5 12.1 11.6 1 Growth over 1 year, 3 years etc to 31 3 07 2 Growth in FTSE All-Share Return Index over 1 year, 3 years etc to 31 3 07 3 Growth in FTSE All-Share Real Estate Sector Return Index over 1 year, 3 years etc to 31 3 07 4 Growth in Total Return of IPD UK Monthly Index All Property over 1 year, 3 years etc to 31 3 07 Key Performance Indicators and Benchmarks Net asset value Net asset value per share represents the share of net assets attributable to each ordinary share.
Whilst the We incentivise management to outperform the Companys basic and diluted net asset per share calculation provide competitors by setting the right levels for performance a guide to performance the property industry prefers to use indicators against which rewards are measured.
We also an adjusted diluted net asset per share.
The adjustments design our remuneration packages to align managements necessary to arrive at this figure are shown in note 31 interests with shareholders aspirations.
Key to this is the to these accounts.
monitoring and reporting against identifiable performance Management is incentivised to exceed 15% p. a. growth targets and benchmarks.
For a number of years we have in net asset value per share.
reported on these, the most important of which are: The adjusted diluted net asset value per share, excluding Investment Property Databank The Investment Property trading stock surplus, at 31 March 2007 was 334p 2006: Databank IPD produces a number of independent 278p, an increase of 20%.
benchmarks of property returns which are regarded as the main industry indices.
They have compared the ungeared Including the surplus on valuation of trading and performance of Helicals total property portfolio against that development stock, the diluted EPRA net asset value per of portfolios within IPD for the last 17 years.
The Companys share at 31 March 2007 was 374p 2006: 309p an increase annual performance target is to exceed the top quartile of of 21% 2006: 30%.
Adjusted EPRA triple net asset value per the IPD database.
Helicals ungeared performance for the share rose by 22% 2006: 30% to 346p 2006: 284p.
year to 31 March 2007 was 24.1% 2006: 25.9% compared Risk Management to the IPD median benchmark of 15.8% 2006: 20.6% and upper quartile benchmark of 17.2% 2006: 22.8%.
Risk governance The responsibility for the governance IPD all monthly and quarterly valued funds Ungeared returns of the Companys risk profile lies with the Board of 31.3.
The Board is responsible for setting the Total Returns % % % Companys risk strategy by assessing risks, determining its Helical 24.1 25.9 28.5 willingness to accept those risks and ensuring that the risks are monitored and that the Company is aware of and, if IPD upper quartile 17.2 22.8 20.3 appropriate, reacts to, changes in those risks.
The Board is Percentile rank 5 10 0 also responsible for allocating responsibility for risk within 0 means the top ranked fund.
The returns on shareholder capital earned by Helical are Strategic risks Strategic risks are those risks that may adversely generally higher than those measured by IPD due to the use affect the Companys financial performance by following of gearing.
The returns noted above take no account of the an inappropriate strategy or by the failure to execute an 36m 2006: 29m surplus of trading and development appropriate strategy.
Strategic risks arise over a long time stock above book value arising from the directors valuation.
frame where there are fundamental differences between Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return the business environment in which the Company operates TSR measures the return to shareholders from share and the environment assumed on the establishment price movements and dividend income and is used to of that strategy.
compare returns between companies listed on the Stock The Companys reputation is a key component of our ability Exchange.
Management is incentivised to exceed the top to achieve its strategic goals and success in meeting these quartile of the real estate sector.
Helicals TSR for the year goals depends not only on the effective management of to 31 March 2007 was 9.7% 2006: 73.5% compared to risks but also on the maintenance of its reputation among the median of the listed real estate sector of 22.1% stakeholders i. e. employees, investors, regulators, business 2006: 49.3%.
partners, financial institutions and the public.
15 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Review Performance and Risk Shirley, Solihull The other main strategic risks identified by the The remuneration packages of senior directors and Company include: employees are seen as the key to their retention and motivation.
These remuneration packages are designed long-term under-performance of the real estate to provide a basic level of salary at the lower to mid-range sector compared to alternative forms of investment of the Companys peer group but with cash bonuses and e. g. equities, gilts: share awards at the top end of the peer group rewarding regulatory changes which significantly impact on the outperformance compared to that peer group.
attractiveness of real estate as an investment compared Risks to the Companys reputation are mitigated by the to alternative forms of investment, or on the attractiveness adoption of an internal Code of Conduct and whistleof investing in real estate through a listed company: blowing procedures which are reviewed annually.
the effect of global events e. g. oil prices, international The most recent annual review of the strategic risks faced conflicts and terrorism, economic impacts of global by the Company indicate that the business of Helical is inflation depressions on UK real estate in general appropriate to the business environment in which it and on London, as a financial centre, in particular: competes and that the strategic risks faced by the Company macro-economic changes such as interest rate rises have not impacted adversely on it in the period under review.
affecting yields achievable on real estate: Operational risks Operational risk is the risk that the over-dependence on an inadequate level of business Company may suffer a loss from inadequate internal relationships restricting an ability to source opportunities: processes, systems, resources, incorrect decision-making and, or through external events.
retention of key senior employees.
Losses from operational risk can arise from: The principal strategic risks noted above and the underlying people-related issues such as inadequate resources, skills drivers of such risks are monitored by management and or departure of key personnel: discussed in the annual update of a five year Business Plan software or hardware failure, inadequate IT security, presented by the Executive Directors to the full Board each failure of back-up facilities: year.
In addition the Company receives regular updates on the impact of economic scenarios on the real estate sector incorrect or inappropriate use of valuation models, as well as subscribing to a number of economic journals in inappropriate gearing levels, breaches of authorisation order that senior employees are kept up-to-date.
levels: The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved fraud from internal or external sources: to it for decision.
The Board controls the business but external events leading to a loss of a major provider delegates day-to-day responsibility to the executive of services e. g. contractor failure.
However, there are a number of matters which are required to be or, in the interests of the Company, The Companys approach is not to eliminate operational should only be decided by the Board of Directors as a whole.
risk, but rather to identify the areas in which it might arise and to contain it within acceptable limits through the The Board monitors the financial performance of the application of effective controls.
Ultimately, the management Company at quarterly Board meetings where comparisons of operational risk is dependent upon the application of against budgets and forecasts are made together with sound management judgement.
The close involvement of a review of key performance indicators.
the executive directors in the day-to-day running of the business is critical to that judgement.
The Company has not suffered any material losses arising from exposure to operational risks in the year under review.
16 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Review Performance and Risk Mitre Square, London EC3 Market risks Market risks arise from the possibility that the The Companys overall approach is to provide sufficient Company may suffer reduced income or a loss resulting liquidity to be able to meet, from cash resources and from fluctuations in the values of, or income from, its real available facilities, the expected requirements of the business.
The guiding principle is to ensure that funding is obtained from diverse providers with a range of maturities, backed Market risk is a key component of the Companys long-term up by interest rate protection where appropriate.
This is to strategy with exposure to the various real estate sectors ensure that a stable flow of financing is available and to fluctuating as perceptions of the future performance of provide protection in the event of market disruption.
each of those sectors change.
Net asset value growth, a key performance indicator, is dependent upon an ability The Companys cash resources, bank borrowings, to move easily between sectors at the appropriate time.
interest rate protection and gearing are noted on pages 59 to 61.
The Companys directors constantly analyse fluctuations in market movements using evidence gathered from a variety Credit risks Credit risk is the possibility that the Company may suffer a loss from the failure of its tenants, borrowers, of public and personal sources, using this analysis to determine the future direction of real estate investment.
suppliers or other counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the Company, including their failure to meet Selecting the most appropriate level of exposure to each them in a timely manner.
It includes the risks that the sector is fundamental to the success of the Company.
Company may suffer a loss as a result of guarantees to third Measuring that success is undertaken by comparing the parties.
Credit risk in order to earn a return is not a central Companys portfolio returns over short-, mediumand feature of the Companys business activities, rather it is a long-term periods with those as reported by Investment consequence of those activities.
Property Databank IPD, the source of the main real estate sector indices.
The Company is exposed to credit risk in respect of the financial stability of the tenants and potential tenants in its In the year under review, and over the mediumand longreal estate portfolio.
It is also exposed to credit risk where term, the Companys performance compares favourably cash flows from the sales of real estate, whether investment with the rest of the sector as reported by IPD on page 15. or trading properties or funded developments, are deferred.
Liquidity risks Liquidity risks arise from having insufficient The potential failure of major suppliers such as contractors financial resources to enable the Company to meet its or sub-contractors also exposes the Company to credit risk.
obligations as they fall due, or can only secure them at an Guarantees to third parties, such as banks, where the excessive cost.
Liquidity risks also arise where the Company Company is in joint venture with partners expose the has insufficient resources to enable investment decisions, Company to risks that those partners are unable to fulfil arising from its assessment of market risks, to be executed.
The Company finances its operations from the cash flow The financial assessment of tenants, potential tenants, generated by its operations, bank borrowings, both secured contractors and potential partners are part of the daily and unsecured and over short-, mediumand long-term routine of the Company.
The assessment of these third periods, and from the capital markets through share issues.
parties is undertaken by the finance department in discussion with the principal responsible for the real estate decision.
The management of cash and debt is monitored daily with medium-term cash flows prepared weekly and long-term In the year under review bad debts constituted less than 1% cash flows discussed regularly in management meetings of gross rental income and no other third parties resulted in and presented to the Board annually.
a loss arising in the Company from their financial position.
17 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Review Performance and Risk
