14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 36 KEY RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES We operate in an industry which carries inherent risk, and is subject to market and other external risks which cannot be fully controlled, mitigated or insured against.
Set out below are some of the principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Directors which exist within the Group that could materially affect our financial condition, performance, strategies and prospects.
The following risk information is not intended to be a comprehensive overview of risks inherent within the business.
MINING RISK Health, safety and environment All of our mining operations are subject to potential health and safety risks, and the possibility of pollution of water, air or soil.
A number of actions have been taken during the year to reduce the number of health and safety incidents occurring and to advance further the standards of environmental safety and protection.
A Health and Safety Committee of the Board has been established during the year to oversee and promote the importance of health and safety to the business.
Health and safety training is provided to employees on an ongoing basis to ensure an awareness of safety issues across the Group.
This is to reinforce managements policies of safety issues and create as safe a working environment as possible.
We are determined that by working together with all our workforce, we will improve on all our health and safety performance.
The potential for other hazards underground is continually monitored, in particular the risks from methane gas and from fire, enabling immediate action to be taken in the event of any abnormal reading.
There is only very limited or uneconomic insurance available in the market against these risks which might normally be insurable in other industries.
Major unforeseeable production shortfalls or geological constraints The operating costs of our deep mines are largely fixed and cannot readily be reduced in changed circumstances.
Output is therefore key to our financial performance and to the viability of the mines and the business.
In an operation as complex as a deep mine there are inevitably risks to production from the failure of equipment.
We therefore seek to maintain adequate supplies of equipment spares to ensure that any downtime is limited and we are operating at high levels of machine availability.
Our mining plans and development programmes are designed to minimise face gaps, the time between one face finishing and a new face starting and production ramping to a normalised level.
During this time coal production may be limited and the economic impact is closely monitored.
Inherent to the nature of our business is the geology of the ground in which we are mining.
Whilst boreholes are drilled and modern surface and other surveys including 3-D seismic surveys offer better information, we often face unexpected geological conditions.
These may be revealed in part when the roadway access gates are initially driven or by knowledge from previous workings in the same area for example in seams above or below those being mined but frequently the extent of geological faulting or other conditions in the coal seam that have to be safely traversed is not totally predictable.
We manage these mining risks by having a well structured risk management policy and experienced personnel to ensure any operational difficulties are mitigated where possible to ensure a continuous production process throughout the year.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 37 Fluctuations in coal prices We are exposed to the risks of fluctuations in coal prices as our revenue and earnings are directly related to the prevailing prices for the coal produced.
We have mitigated this in the past by the use of longer term customer contracts, both to ensure more certainty of demand and of price.
These contracts have, with the subsequent sustained increase in the world price of coal, worked to our disadvantage.
Our strategy is now to move towards a balanced mix of longer term contracts on fixed, capped, collared and floating prices, and to maintain an element of shorter term contracts and spot sales.
We also aim to reduce costs on a continuous basis and to maintain an efficient production process to maximise our returns.
PROPERTY RISK Property market downturn or volatility Harworth Estates is exposed to changes in the property market and the valuation of its estate will fluctuate in part with the general market.
The UK market is currently undergoing a period of disruption, and this is particularly apparent in respect of the small part of our estates that is built out, where property yields have increased, with a commensurate fall in values.
Conversely, our Agricultural land has seen an increase in value per acre, without any change in planning, reflecting the continuing increase in values for this type of land.
Overall, whilst short term fluctuations will always occur in the property market, the underlying macro-economic position and long term demand for property in the UK will, we believe, underpin the market and the value and future worth of our property portfolio.
Planning Approvals The planning regime affects Harworth Estates, and our Mining and Power businesses, and any major changes could affect the business, either positively or negatively.
During the course of 2007, we have seen improvements in the planning environments, in particular following the publication by the Government of its various Regional Spatial Strategies Regional Development Plans, and in the planning regime surrounding the surface mine business, where greater recognition is being given both for the need for coal and the high environmental standards of the design and operation of the schemes.
Of immediate impact, the resources available to planning authorities to process planning applications in a reasonable timescale continues to be a restraining factor on the Group, and in the development of activities contributing to overall Government targets and the Groups aspirations.
