The assessment and management of risk is designed into the way we operate our business.
A summary of major risks and mitigating actions are summarised below: Risk Description Impact Mitigation General Risks People Reduces the ability to deliver business strategy UNITE is a values based organisation.
This Ability to attract, retain and motivate the best means we recruit to a clear set of values and people seek to develop our people to their full potential.
We measure through regular employee satisfaction surveys and act on employee feedback.
Reputation risk Inability to grow and protect UNITEs brand Decline in lettings Experienced brand, sales and marketing teams.
Reduce ability to attract the best people Measurement of customer satisfaction and response to customer feedback.
Weaker relationships with university clients, planners and other stakeholders Strong focus on service.
Dedicated health and safety team.
Reputation audit with key stakeholders.
Investment Market cycles Under over performance of investment portfolio Property markets are cyclical Portfolio risk Concentration of assets in student market Reduced student numbers impacting financial Geographical diversification.
performance Government policy supporting growing higher education sector.
Long term demand for student accommodation underpinned by government policy.
Letting risk Risk arising from short term nature of tenancies Revenues are uncertain Geographical diversification.
Development Planning risk Unable to progress developments in line Development and planning expertise including: Development projects do not achieve sufficient with plans support to achieve planning consent Strong and collaborative relationships with key stakeholders.
Skilled development teams with a good understanding of the sector.
Construction risk Construction projects are delivered late or over Returns are reduced and cash tied up Use of UNITEs unique modular technology budget reducing delivery and cost risk.
Strong relationships with key construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Strong organisational focus on project delivery.
Finance Funding Unable to progress development opportunities Creation of UNITE UK Student Lack of available funds Accommodation Fund.
Gearing reduced from historic levels.
Interest Interest rates rise Increased borrowing costs UNITE hedges 70% 90% of its investment debt.
Our process for managing risk is set out in more detail on page 40 of the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
