Business review Risk management 3i has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks in relation to the Groups strategy and business objectives.
Introduction Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across business lines, geographies and professional functions.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management, which includes the Groups risk governance structure and maintaining an appropriate internal control framework.
Managements responsibility is to manage risk on behalf of the Board.
By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance Committee, the Groups Compliance and Risk Assurance and Audit functions provide support to the Board in maintaining the effectiveness of risk management across the Group.
Following a review of the Groups risk management processes in the year, a new monitoring framework was implemented, with a number of new committees providing input to Group Risk Management Committee.
This became operational in March 2007 and formalised many existing practices.
The diagram below shows this risk management framework and outlines the key responsibilities of each committee.
Risk governance Group Risk Management Committee Responsible for overall risk management process Monitors changes in external risk environment Reviews reports from Investment, Operational and Financial Risk Committees Reports to Audit and Compliance Committee Investment Committee Conflicts Committee Decides issues on conflicts arising Takes or recommends investment decisions on individual opportunities in investment process and other areas Health and Safety Committee Reviews Health and Safety arrangements and policy.
Monitors implementation Operational Risk Committee and performance Provides input to the setting of investment policy and guidelines Deals with all aspects of operational risk Corporate Responsibility Committee Recommends socially responsible investment policy.
Identifies and promotes awareness of Corporate Responsibility and developments and risks Financial Risk Committee Assesses financial risk including treasury and funding risk Will recommend asset allocation decisions and monitor portfolio composition Regulatory Risk Forum through six-monthly reviews Provides regulatory input to investment policy.
Identifies and promotes awareness of regulatory developments and risks 3i Group plc 26 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Risk type Brief description Further information Risk mitigation External Risks arising from political, legal, Chairmans statement Entry into new geographical markets subject regulatory, economic policy and Chief Executives statement to extensive market research and due diligence competitor changes Business review, Close monitoring of regulatory and fiscal Group business section developments in main markets Diversified investment portfolio in a range of sectors, with different economic cycles, across geographical markets Strategic Risks arising from the analysis, Business review, Monitoring of a range of key performance design and implementation Group business, indicators, forecasts and periodic updates of the Groups business model, Our strategy section of plans and underlying assumptions and key decisions on investment Regular monitoring by Group Risk levels and capital allocations Management Committee Investment Risks in respect of specific Business review, Investment Committee approval of all asset investment decisions, Financial review section significant investments the subsequent performance Financial statements, Regular asset reviews of an investment or exposure Ten largest investments Representation by a 3i investment executive concentrations across business on the boards of investee companies line portfolios Portfolio is subject to periodic reviews at both the business line and Group levels to monitor exposure to any one sector or geography Treasury Risks arising from i uncertainty Business review, Credit risk exposure is managed on an asset-specific and funding in market prices and rates, Financial review section basis by individual investment managers ii an inability to raise adequate Financial statements, Board review of the Groups financial resources funds to meet investment Notes to the financial statements every six months needs or meet obligations as Assets denominated in foreign currency broadly they fall due, or iii inappropriate matched with borrowings in the same currency capital structure Type and maturity of the borrowings broadly matched to those of the corresponding assets Operational Risks arising from inadequate Corporate Line management at all levels is responsible for or failed processes, people and responsibility report identifying, assessing, controlling and reporting systems or from external factors operational risks affecting these Framework of core values, standards and controls, a code of business conduct and delegated authorities are in place Independent internal audit function carries out periodic reviews The main components of each risk type and related risk mitigation measures are described overleaf.
Further information can also be found under the relevant report sections referred to above.
3i Group plc 27 Report and accounts 2007 Business review Risk management continued External risks Geopolitical risk 3i carries on business as an investment Macroeconomic risks Part of the Groups investment strategy is trust under section 842 of the Income 3i invests mainly in European companies and to invest in new and emerging markets.
and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. continues to develop its operations in Asia The legal, regulatory and capital frameworks Continuation of this status is subject to the and the US.
The performance of the Groups in these markets may be less developed than Company directing its affairs in line with underlying investment portfolio is influenced in the other main geographical markets in the relevant requirements of the legislation.
by economic growth, interest rates, currency which the Group operates.
Changes and Anticipated and actual changes in movements and changes in commodity and developments in all our markets are government policy and related tax treatment energy prices.
Market conditions for initial monitored closely to ensure that any of investment trusts are closely monitored, public offerings, the level of mergers and impact on the value of existing investments, as are other changes which could affect acquisitions activity, the number of active planned levels of investment or investment results of operations or financial position.
trade or other private equity buyers, and the returns are, as far as possible, anticipated, Related risks exist in other jurisdictions in availability of well-priced debt finance, all understood and acted upon.
This work which the Group operates, where there is have an impact, not only on the Groups includes periodic legal and regulatory updates similar close monitoring of changes in local ability to invest but on the Groups ability to by geography, in-depth market and sector taxation legislation which could affect the exit from its underlying portfolio, or on the research and regular reviews for existing expected tax position of the Group.
levels of profitability achieved on exit.
Entry into new geographical markets is subject to extensive market Strategic risks To mitigate this, 3i aims to invest over time in research and due diligence.
The Groups strategy is based on a full a range of sectors, with different economic analysis of its operating environment.
cycles, across its different business lines and Government policy and regulation In determining the appropriate business geographical markets.
This includes expansion 3i Investments plc, a wholly owned subsidiary model, market and sector evaluations in both the US and in Asia, which further of 3i, is an authorised person under the are taken into account, as well as the diversifies the portfolio.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 identification and assessment of external and and regulated by the FSA in the United internal risk factors.
Where applicable, certain 3i Group changes or outcomes, beyond those factored subsidiaries businesses outside the United into the Groups strategy and business model, Kingdom are regulated locally by relevant may occur which could have an impact on authorities.
Changes to the regulatory the Groups performance or financial position.
frameworks under which the Group This is addressed through the monitoring operates are closely monitored.
There are of a range of key performance indicators, also appropriate processes and procedures forecasts and periodic updates of plans and in place, including a dedicated Group underlying assumptions.
Compliance function, whose remit is to minimise the risk of a breach of applicable regulations which could affect the Groups compliance costs, its business, results of operations or financial position.
3i Group plc 28 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Investment risks Investment performance The portfolio is subject to periodic reviews Investment decisions The performance of the Groups portfolio at both the business line and Group levels to The Group operates in a very competitive is dependent upon a range of factors.
monitor exposure to any one sector or market.
Changes in the number of market These include, but are not limited to: i the geography and to monitor the exposure to participants, the availability of funds within quality of the initial investment decision larger investments.
the market, the pricing of assets, or in the described above: ii the ability of the Investment valuations ability to access deals on a proprietary basis portfolio company to execute successfully its and exit opportunities could have a significant effect on the Groups business strategy: and iii actual outcomes The valuation of 3is unquoted portfolio competitive position and on the sustainability against the key assumptions underlying the and opportunities for realisation depend to of returns.
some extent on stock market conditions Any one of these factors could have an and the buoyancy of the wider mergers and The ability of the Group to source and impact on the valuation of a portfolio acquisitions market.
Changes in market or execute good quality investments in such company and upon the Groups ability to macroeconomic conditions, could impact the markets is dependent upon a range of make a profitable exit from the investment valuation of portfolio assets and the ability to factors.
The most important of these include: within the desired timeframe.
exit those investments profitably within the i the ability to attract and develop people desired timeframe.
with the requisite investment experience A rigorous process is put in place for and cultural fit: ii organisation of teams managing the relationship with each whose structure is market-adapted and investee company for the period through to whose compensation is results-oriented: realisation.
This includes regular asset reviews and iii effective application of collective and, in many cases, board representation by a knowledge and relationships to each 3i investment executive.
Investment concentration 3is investment appraisal is undertaken in a The Group invests across a range of rigorous manner.
This includes approval by economic sectors and geographies.
the relevant business line partnerships, and Over-exposure to a particular sector or where appropriate, peer review by executives geography could increase the impact of from other business lines, together with 3is adverse changes in macroeconomic or international network of industry and sector market conditions on the Group.
Investments over 5 million are in the average size of investments over time presented to an Investment Committee could also increase the exposure of the Group chaired by an authorised member of the to the performance of a small number of Management Committee and comprising our large investments, albeit in different sectors senior investment executives.
3i Group plc 29 Report and accounts 2007 Business review Risk management continued Treasury and funding risks Liquidity risk Foreign exchange risk 3is funding objective is that each category The Group invests from its own balance 3i reports in sterling and pays dividends from of investment asset is broadly matched with sheet using cash generated from its investing its sterling profits.
The Group seeks to reduce liabilities and shareholders funds according to activities and its core funding.
The Group structural currency exposures by matching the risk and maturity characteristics of the also has available to it undrawn committed assets denominated in foreign currency with assets, and that funding needs are met ahead facilities.
In addition to funding from its own borrowings in the same currency.
The Group of planned investment.
balance sheet, the Group periodically raises makes some use of derivative financial third-party funds to co-invest in mid-market instruments to effect foreign exchange Credit risk buyout transactions.
It also invests indirectly management.
The current policy is to hedge 3is financial assets are predominantly through funds administered by third parties, the main currency exposures in the range unsecured investments in unquoted or quoted investment vehicles.
The Group considers the maximum credit risk to be the carrying value Unexpected changes in the levels of Interest rate risk of the asset.
An increase in concentration investment and divestment activities or in 3i has a mixture of fixed and floating-rate of the portfolio in a particular sector interest rates could impact the availability assets.
The assets are funded with or geography could increase credit risk.
of funds required for investment needs or a combination of shareholders funds Likewise large or unexpected increases to meet obligations as they fall due.
and borrowings according to the risk in interest rates could increase credit characteristics of the assets.
The Board To address this, a range of cash flow risk, particularly in companies which are seeks to minimise interest rate exposure forecasts are produced and updated on a highly leveraged.
by considering the average life profile of regular basis for each business line and for the various asset classes and adopting a The portfolio is well diversified and, for the Group as a whole.
The Board reviews the portfolio approach to the interest rate this reason, credit risk exposure is managed Groups financial resources every six months.
Some derivative on an asset-specific basis by individual This includes consideration of the currency financial instruments are used to achieve investment managers.
hedging and maturity profile aspects, as this objective.
well as liquidity, of the Groups current and The Groups remaining financial assets forecast financial position.
are mainly in the form of deposits with banks of a credit rating of AA or Price risk better.
Counterparty limits are set and The valuation of unquoted investments closely monitored.
depends upon a combination of market factors and the performance of the underlying asset.
The Group does not currently hedge the market risk inherent in the portfolio but manages asset performance risk on an asset specific basis, as described earlier.
3i Group plc 30 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Operational risks Business processes The Group is exposed to a range of The Groups information technology and operational risks which can arise from treasury systems, as well as its business inadequate or failed processes, people and processes and procedures, support its systems or from external factors affecting operations and business performance.
These include operational events The Group has policies and procedures such as human resources risks, legal and covering information security, change regulatory risks, information technology management, business continuity and systems failures, business disruption disaster recovery.
These are subject to and shortcomings in internal controls.
Line management at all levels is responsible Legal and regulatory for identifying, assessing, controlling and In order to conform to necessary legal and reporting operational risks.
This is supported regulatory requirements across multiple by a framework of core values, standards jurisdictions, the Group operates a complex and controls, a code of business conduct legal and corporate structure.
This requires and delegated authorities.
There is also an appropriate internal processes and independent internal audit function which procedures to be developed and followed, carries out periodic reviews.
supported by professional teams with People appropriate skills, drawing upon external The ability to recruit, develop and retain resources where appropriate.
There is also capable people is of fundamental importance a Legal and Regulatory Risk Forum which to achieving the Groups strategy.
The Group meets at least four times a year to review operates in a competitive industry and aims and plan for forthcoming legal and regulatory to remunerate staff in line with market changes which could impact the Group.
practice and to provide superior development opportunities.
The Group has human resources policies and procedures covering recruitment, vetting and performance management, and appropriate processes in place to monitor their application.
Staff engagement is also regularly evaluated and reported to the Board.
3i Group plc 31 Report and accounts 2007
