qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 10:58 Page 42 Directors Report Business Review 42 Risk factors Risk factors BG Groups business, results, financial Fluctuations in exchange rates power and nuclear power may have an condition and reputation could be affected The Groups cash ow, income statement and impact on the Groups ability to maintain by various risks.
Not all these risks are within balance sheet are reported in pounds Sterling market position.
Failure to adequately the Groups control and the Group may be and may be affected by uctuations in analyse, understand or respond to the adversely affected by other risks besides exchange rates.
A substantial proportion of competitive environment could have an those listed below.
Actions being taken by the Groups business activity is conducted in impact on the Groups financial position.
management to mitigate some of these risks US Dollars and the Group holds substantial RESERVES GROWTH AND PROJECT DELIVERY are identied where appropriate.
The Group Strategic balance of the BG Group portfolio should carefully consider these risks in mitigates its exposure to its holding of US BG Group has a global portfolio of assets and conjunction with the Legal Notice set out Dollar-denominated assets by borrowing in, opportunities across its business segments.
on page 141. or swapping, the majority of its borrowing Failure to manage this portfolio effectively into US Dollars.
In general, the Group does FLUCTUATING MARKET CONDITIONS could have a material impact on the Groups not hedge US Dollar-denominated Commodity prices business.
The Group conducts regular reviews transactions, although it may do so for BG Groups results are sensitive to crude oil of its portfolio balance, as appropriate, looking specic transactions, as authorised by the and natural gas prices which are dependent at numerous factors including segmental Finance Committee.
BG Group estimates on a number of factors impacting upon world weighting, geographical weighting, political that, in 2008, other factors being constant, supply and demand.
The Groups exposure to risk, and gas oil mix.
Nevertheless, the Group a 10 cent strengthening or weakening in short-term changes in commodity prices is may still be exposed to risk factors such as: the US Dollar against pound Sterling, would mitigated by the predominance of gas in its shifts in the demand for different hydrocarbon increase or decrease operating profit by portfolio and the use of long-term gas products as sources of energy: adverse approximately 140 million to 160 million.
contracts, which are not directly or changes in the business environment: The Groups net balance sheet exposure to immediately linked to short-term changes increased taxes: and governmental in commodity prices.
currencies other than the US Dollar or pound regulation.
Inability to leverage its market Sterling, primarily to the Brazilian Real, is position and skills to access upstream The Groups exposure to commodity prices managed on a case-by-case basis.
The Group reserves can also have a material impact also varies according to a number of factors, mitigates its exposure to transactions in on the Groups strategy in the long-term.
including the mix of production and sales.
currencies other than pound Sterling or US The Group estimates that, other factors LNG is an increasingly important element of Dollars by hedging certain expected cash being constant, a US$1.00 rise or fall in the the Groups business, and growth in this area ows into pound Sterling or US Dollars.
Brent oil price would increase or decrease is dependent upon the level of success the Subsidiary undertakings that borrow without operating profit in 2008 by around Group achieves in connecting competitively recourse to the Group are generally required 40 million to 50 million.
priced gas to high value markets.
This could to borrow in, or swap borrowing into, their be affected by factors such as: barriers to Over the medium term, commodity price respective functional currency.
the purchase or development of LNG export increases can cause supply or capacity Competition projects: environmental, permitting or other constraints in areas such as specialist staff, Across the world there is strong competition planning restrictions: and the global demand construction or operations.
This can in turn in the energy sector.
As a global business, BG for LNG.
create cost pressure on BG Groups operating Group faces increasing competition both and capital costs, which affect ongoing Finding new reserves from the National Oil Companies NOCs, financial performance.
BG Groups future gas and oil production is which control a substantial percentage of dependent upon nding, acquiring and The Group does not, as a matter of course, the worlds reserves, and the International hedge all commodity prices, but may hedge developing new reserves.
In general, the rate Oil Companies IOCs.
This competition could of production from natural gas and oil certain LNG contracts and gas and oil revenue make securing access to acreage, reserves streams from time to time.
In marketing its reservoirs declines as reserves are depleted.
The Group needs to replace these depleted gas supply portfolio, the Group undertakes The Group also competes with other forms commodity hedging and trading activities reserves with new proved reserves costincluding the use of natural gas futures of energy available to consumers.
Policies effectively and on a consistent basis.
This and regulations at the international level contracts, financial and physical forwardcould be affected by a number of factors based contracts and swap contracts.
The to tackle climate change will increasingly including: barriers to gaining new exploration potential exposure to uctuations in natural affect the business environment, presenting acreage: inaccurate interpretation of gas sales prices is also mitigated within new challenges.
Changes in the usage geological and engineering data: unexpected certain LNG purchase contracts where the of alternative sources of energy such as drilling conditions or equipment failure: gas suppliers share price risk with BG Group.
inadequate resources including drilling rigs, renewables, liquid bio-fuels, hydroelectric www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p42-45 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 08 08:35 Page 43 Business Risk Management Process 43 The Business Risk Management Process is a continuous and Risk Identication systematic process 7 2 of identication, prioritisation, Reporting and Performance Risk Assessment: mitigation, monitoring Prioritise risks, and reporting of risks Ownership that may impact the 1 business plan objectives 6 Scope, Business of the Group.
Objectives and 3 Strategies Monitoring and Existing skilled personnel, contractors, materials and Assurance Controls New Mitigation supplies: and disruptions to the successful and Action Plans implementation of the drilling programme.
5 4 Execute Developing Reserves Action Plans Following the creation of exploration or new venture opportunities, certain activities are performed before an investment decision or sanction is made by management.
These activities include commercialisation, reviews these arrangements to ensure a high therefore estimates of reserves are not feasibility studies, concept selection and level of confidence in its ability to perform exact measurements and can be subject denition.
There are a number of risks during and to mitigate against any such liabilities to revision.
Published reserves estimates the pre-sanction phases, including subshould they arise.
may also be subject to correction in the surface, engineering, commercial and application of published rules and guidance.
The principal risk prior to BG Groups future gas and oil production Commercial sanction is failure to assess accurately the is to a significant extent dependent upon E&P operations are typically conducted under project schedule and cost.
Failure to select the successful completion of development licences granted to BG Group and its partners the most suitable development concept projects within budget, cost and collectively the Contractors by the state or based on full life cycle understanding of the specications.
The delivery of these projects national government or by entry into a project can expose projects to additional risk is subject to HSSE, technical, commercial, Production Sharing Contract PSC between and cost.
the Contractors and the state or national legal, contractor and economic risks.
government generally represented by a Development projects may be delayed or If the Group is not successful in securing appropriate long-term commercial state-owned company.
The terms and unsuccessful for many reasons, including: agreements, in particular related to gas conditions of the licences and PSCs vary cost and time overruns of projects under from country to country.
construction: failure to comply with legal and LNG sales and transportation, it may be unable to commercialise its reserves, thus and regulatory requirements: equipment Licences generally give the Contractors the shortages: availability, competence and adversely impacting the Groups cash ow right to explore for, and exploit a discovery of, and income.
If the Group fails to adopt an capability of human resources and hydrocarbon resources whilst bearing the risk contractors: unscheduled outages: appropriate procurement and project of, and providing funding for, the exploration, mechanical and technical difficulties: and management strategy, it may experience development and production activities.
Projects may delays to project schedule and cost.
GasLicences granted by a state generally require also require the use of new and advanced related projects often require a chain of Contractors to be jointly and severally liable, commercial agreements, frequently amongst technologies, which can be expensive to which means that the Group may be at risk develop, purchase and implement and may different parties.
Failure to complete this for liabilities to host states if its partners fail chain or to apportion risks appropriately not function as expected.
to perform their contractual obligations or prior to project sanction can leave projects deliver their share of the E&P operations.
efficient Operations exposed to commercial risks that could affect The integrity of the Groups assets can be A PSC is an enforceable contract setting out the project economics.
affected by a number of factors, including the rules governing the co-operation between Principal regulatory risks during the preunplanned shutdowns and equipment failure.
the Contractors and the host state.
The Failure to have common, robust systems sanction phase are failure to negotiate Contractors usually bear the risk of funding and processes in place across the Group may appropriate agreements, where required, the exploration, development and production adversely impact plant availability, production with host governments, lack of appreciation operations, although the state company volumes and ultimately cash ow.
Failure to of the regulatory framework in the host may participate in the funding of the country and failure to gain applicable have good asset integrity and process safety development.
Under the terms set out in the practices could result in a safety or permits, licences or approvals from the PSC, the Contractors recover their approved environmental incident.
relevant local authorities to carry out or costs from the future production revenues operate certain works.
and, in exchange for the risk of the Business activities conducted by the Group investment, enjoy a share of the excess are often conducted with joint venture There are numerous uncertainties inherent production revenues.
partners and some assets are under the in estimating oil and gas reserves.
Reserves day-to-day management of these partners are estimated using available geological, Financial and reputational exposure exists and may therefore be subject to risks that are technical and economic information.
The for failure to perform under its commercial agreements and the Group continually outside the control of the Group.
The location process involves informed judgements and BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p42-45 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 10:58 Page 44 Directors Report Business Review 44 Risk factors continued of some of the Groups operations may and other contextual issues in the many suitable regulations but with no guarantee expose them to natural hazards such as diverse countries in which it does business.
that account will be taken of its hurricanes, ooding and earthquakes, each Specic areas of country risk that could have representations.
Regulatory frameworks of which could materially impact the Groups an effect on BG Groups business and will continue to evolve as markets mature ability to deliver its products or services.
reputation include: international disputes and this will also affect the Group.
and conict: the imposition of international Individual segments of the Groups activities Stakeholder Engagement sanctions: civil disorder: government are subject to specic operational and A number of stakeholders including instability: changes in government policy, production risks.
In the E&P segment, failure employees, investors, media, governments, laws, regulations, standards or scal terms: to adopt the correct reservoir and well civil society groups, non-governmental re-interpretation of existing tax laws: management strategy could adversely affect organisations and those living in local government intervention in licence awards: the ultimate reserves recovery from the eld communities affected by BG Groups expropriation of assets: cancellation, operations have legitimate interests in the and, consequently, reduce long-term Group variation or breach of contractual rights: and profitability and cash ow.
Failure to manage Groups business.
The Groups reputation political obstacles to project approvals and and or share price could suffer due to effectively the global LNG chain, including delivery.
Effective stakeholder engagement inappropriate or inadequate engagement shipping capacity and movements, port see below is a key component of political with stakeholders, including, for example: schedules, lifting and delivery timetables and and contextual risk management.
failure to develop proactive stakeholder the related impact of weather conditions, Regulation engagement strategies, delivery of may lead to market opportunities being BG Groups business activities are conducted inconsistent messaging to key stakeholders missed, penalty payments or other factors in many different countries and are therefore on business objectives and strategy: failure adversely affecting the Groups financial to provide adequate explanations if subject to a broad range of legislation and performance.
The successful management of regulation.
BG Group faces value erosion if performance targets are not met or if daily supply and demand across the Groups performance is perceived as poor against the conditions attached to licences, which T&D assets is critical to ensure consumers competitors: and inadequate responses to govern operations, are not properly managed supplies are secure.
any crisis including financial market or delivered.
In addition, future growth of Health, Safety, Security & Environment challenges, such as a hostile bid or a major assets may be affected if required regulatory A major HSSE incident could result in injury HSSE incident.
or loss of life, damage to the environment or Corporate Responsibility The Groups T&D companies mainly operate destruction of facilities, each of which could BG Group defines corporate responsibility under a form of licence or concession have a material impact on BG Group.
as the Business Principles in practice see agreement awarded by the state or national BG Group recognises that the protection Corporate Responsibility page 38 for further government.
Normally, the tariff that gas of the health and safety of its employees, information.
BG Groups failure to implement customers are charged is determined by the and others affected by its operations, is an its Business Principles and or any ongoing or regulator and reviewed periodically in line essential element in delivering business damaging investigations of BG Group could with licence terms and conditions.
The Group performance, as are the security of physical impact the Groups reputation and or share may be at risk of unfavourable tariff reviews and intellectual assets and the protection price.
Each of the following risks could affect which may have an impact on T&D income of the natural environment.
the Groups ability to deliver projects on time and growth.
and within budget and damage BG Groups Policies and measures at the international The Groups LNG and gas marketing activities reputation: failure to consider and manage and national level to tackle climate change also operate within market rules set down environmental impacts, social consequences will increasingly affect business conditions, by the respective regulator.
Typically, these and human rights in investment decisions, presenting environmental and regulatory risks.
The Group faces project planning and operational Similarly, measures to tackle loss of biodiversity value erosion if it does not respond to changes management: failure to identify stakeholder may limit access to oil and gas resources in in these market rules and ensure compliance.
expectations: and weak governance and areas deemed to be biologically sensitive.
internal controls, including the ineffective Many of the countries in which the Group The increased threats from international implementation of anti-corruption policies.
conducts, and expects to conduct business terrorism and violent crime could also interrupt are developing new regulatory frameworks.
Brindisi LNG terminal criminal and other the Groups operations to a material extent.
These regulatory frameworks, and their proceedings POLITICAL, REGULATORY AND STAKEHOLDER interpretation and application by The Court of Brindisi is pursuing a criminal administrative agencies, may be specic Political context investigation in connection with alleged to a given market and untested.
BG Group The success of the Group depends in part on improper conduct associated with the understanding and managing the political may be offered the opportunity to help shape authorisation process for the planned Brindisi www.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 19:25 Page 45 45 LNG regasication terminal.
Further details delivery of an organisational design aligned The Group considers each counterpartys of the criminal proceedings are provided in financial condition prior to entering into to the Groups business objectives.
As part of the criminal effectively implement organisational design, commercial contracts, trading sales investigation, the Brindisi LNG terminal or to adapt the organisation as the Group agreements, swaps, futures and options site was seized by the Italian authorities grows, could have a material adverse effect contracts.
Credit exposures are monitored for in February 2007.
It is not possible at this on the delivery of business objectives.
The individual transaction and concentration risk.
time to predict with any certainty when the Group regularly reviews its organisational Where multiple transactions are undertaken seizure order will be lifted or the outcome design to align it to the Groups business with a single counterparty, or group of related of the criminal proceedings.
It is also not objectives and a new three region structure counterparties, the Group may enter into a possible to predict whether there might and new Senior Vice President roles reporting netting arrangement to reduce the Groups be additional investigations by the Italian to the Group Executive Committee have been exposure to credit risk.
Currently, the Group authorities resulting from the circumstances implemented with effect from 1 January 2008. makes wide use of standard International surrounding the current investigations.
Swaps and Derivative Association ISDA TREASURY, CREDIT AND INSURANCE documentation for financial transactions.
This If the allegations of improper conduct Interest rate and liquidity risk provides netting of transactions covered by are proven to be well-founded, BG Group The Groups nancing costs may be the specic ISDA documentation.
For physical entities could face a wide range of sanctions signicantly affected by interest rate commodity trading, BG Group seeks to put in that could be imposed by the competent volatility.
The Group is also exposed to place bespoke master netting agreements or authorities, including criminal and civil fines, liquidity risks, including risks associated with European Federation of Energy Traders EFET, penalties, the revocation of authorisations renancing borrowings as they mature, the North American Energy Standards Board and injunctive sanctions.
Moreover, risk that borrowing facilities are not available NAESB and National Balancing Point NBP detecting, investigating and resolving such to meet cash requirements, and the risk that agreements, as appropriate.
matters could be expensive and consume financial assets cannot readily be converted significant time, attention and resources to cash without loss of value.
Failure to Insurance of BG Group management.
manage nancing risks could have a material A comprehensive insurance programme is impact on the Groups cash ow, balance maintained to mitigate significant losses, There are various other legal proceedings sheet and financial position.
which, as is consistent with good industry ongoing relating to the Brindisi LNG practice, includes cover for physical damage, regasication terminal, for example relating The Groups interest rate management policy removal of debris, control of wells, re-drill, to the suspension of the original Article 8 requires that the interest rate obligations pollution and employers and third-party approval see operating review, page 23, of BGEH Borrowers be substantially oating, liabilities.
Nevertheless, some of the major risks consents necessary for the construction work and sets limits on the maximum amount involved in BG Groups activities cannot, or may and environmental procedures.
The impact of of xed rate exposure from time to time.
not, reasonably and economically be insured.
these proceedings cannot yet be quantied The Group manages liquidity risk by The programme is subject to certain limits, but could delay or deny BG Group access to maintaining adequate committed borrowing deductibles, and terms and conditions.
In the Brindisi LNG terminal site.
facilities and holding its financial assets addition, insurance premium costs are subject HUMAN RESOURCE AND ORGANISATION primarily in short-term, highly liquid to changes based on the overall loss experience BG Groups performance and its ability to investments that are readily convertible to of the insurance markets accessed.
mitigate significant risks within its control known amounts of cash.
Renancing risk is depend on the skills and efforts of its managed by limiting the amount of borrowing employees and management teams.
Future that matures within any specic period.
success will depend to a large extent on the Credit Groups continued ability to attract, retain, BG Group is exposed to credit risks, being the motivate and organise its highly skilled and loss that would be recognised if counterparties qualied personnel.
This in turn will be failed to, or were unable to, meet their impacted by competition for human payment obligations.
These risks may arise resources.
If the Group loses the services of in certain agreements in relation to amounts key people or is unable to attract and retain owed for physical product sales, the use of employees with the right capabilities and derivative instruments and the investment experience, it could have an effect on the of surplus cash balances.
The Group is also Groups business and operations.
exposed to political and economic risk events, Effective organisation of the Groups human which may cause non-payment of foreign resources relies upon the development and currency obligations to BG Group.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
