Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 31 Business review Risk factors Risk Management regular risk assessment and review of the controls operated.
The Group has a risk management framework in place which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, The systems that we have implemented provide significantly assessing and responding to risks relating to its objectives.
improved management information and in Alliance Trust Savings robust customer authentication for both phone and Risk Management operates throughout the Group and is online services.
Furthermore we have placed our systems with monitored by the Alliance Trust PLC Board, Audit Committee, a secure and reputable third party organisation who provides Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo, Chief professional disaster recovery facilities and services.
Executives Group and Risk Management Committee.
The Group Audit, Compliance and Risk Management functions The future development of Alliance Trust will include further provide direct support to these bodies.
The roles of the changes in operational systems, processes and people.
This Board, Audit Committee, ALICo and Chief Executives Group will be managed within the risk management framework.
are outlined within pages 34 to 37.
The Risk Management Committee meets monthly to assess and monitor movements Business Risk in risk exposure and considers areas of significant risk, and This risk encompasses both external and strategic risks.
Membership of the Committee External risks arise from the political, legal, regulatory and includes the Groups Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer economic policy environments in which the Group operates.
and heads of function for Audit, Compliance and Risk Management.
Strategic risks arise from the analysis, design and implementation of the Groups business model and key The risk management framework categorises risk under four decisions on capital allocations and individual investments.
broad headings: investment risk, operational risk, business risk New investments in asset management and private equity, and liquidity risk.
Some of the major potential risks which the as well as the introduction of online trading to the existing Group has managed during the year are also indicated below.
Alliance Trust Savings business, create potential new risks.
Strategic risk is addressed by the Board and its committees Investment Risk supported by management groups.
Market risk in respect of specific asset class investment Within financial services subsidiaries the level of regulatory decisions, including subsequent performance of an individual change is high and preparation continues for the introduction investment is the primary element of this category.
Within of major pieces of legislation such as the Markets in Financial Alliance Trust Savings the risk definition extends to credit risk Instruments Directive, SIPP regulation and the Capital exposure concentrations in respect of its banking deposits.
We have a dedicated and professional Asset allocation oversight is provided by ALICo.
Individual department, Compliance, whose role is to identify where we investment managers base their investment decisions on are subject to regulation and assist in ensuring that processes the parameters set by ALICo, which in turn operate within are compliant.
Liquidity Risk During 2006 ALICo directed a reallocation of assets to cash, in anticipation of an equity price correction.
This risk is that of ensuring that the organisation has sufficient cash or cash like funds to meet payments which Operational Risk must be made as they fall due.
The cash position is monitored daily across the organisation.
Surplus funds are deposited in Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed the market to add to the business income.
processes, people and systems or from external factors affecting these.
In order to maintain our Investment Trust status and the related tax treatment the Board closely monitors compliance The major source of potential operational risk for the Group with current regulatory requirements.
is in the process for managing investments.
In the course of 2006 the implementation of new IT systems, as well as the integration of new subsidiaries within Alliance Trust Savings have been new areas of operational risk.
These have been managed through the project management framework which requires risk identification and a mitigation process as an integral part of all business developments.
Once part of the ongoing business, all processes are subject to
