Review Risk management effectively understanding and James Illingworth Chief Risk Officer The management of risk is a core skill that ensures methodology for the analysis of our controls.
that the Group offers both sustainable risk transfer These changes will result in clearer evaluation of solutions to its clients and attractive returns to our risks and enhanced governance and shareholders.
transparency over the operation of our controls.
A review of our risk management software and In a dynamic market place where levels of risk are commissioning of a replacement system for fluctuating, competition for business is variable and implementation in 2008. financial security critical, the maintenance of ever Development of an economic modelling improving risk evaluation and monitoring techniques capability across the entire Group, whereas is an ongoing challenge.
This can clearly be seen in previously it existed only for the Syndicate.
the management of our underwriting through the Independent review of the quality and accuracy cycle and the adoption of improving technical of our underwriting price monitoring and recording.
Development of an improved risk appetite definition, which will be completed in 2008.
The management and identification of risk is a day to day responsibility of many of our staff and is a Risk categories feature of all our business activities.
Amlin categorises risk closely to that laid out by the Progress with Enterprise Risk FSA.
The risk categories are as follows: Management capability has The Risk Assessment and Monitoring team RAM been significant in 2007. are responsible for the evaluation, analysis and Underwriting risk: The risk of loss arising from the monitoring of the major risks faced by the Group.
inherent uncertainties in the occurrence, amount Group wide economic Under a Chief Risk Officer, the team includes and timing of insurance liabilities and premiums.
modelling now able to assist in actuarial, compliance, business intelligence, The scope of insurance risk covers underwriting, risk and return evaluation.
insurance and risk management skills.
The purpose reserving, claims and reinsurance excluding credit of the team is to promote better understanding and risk.
The Underwriting Director is the primary risk Development of an improved governance of risk, to ensure that we operate within owner but underwriting is delegated through senior risk appetite framework and the agreed risk appetites and to monitor economic management to class underwriters in Syndicate capital requirements.
Risk management is mechanism for risk reporting is exercised through careful planning and monitoring, a key aim for 2008.
Risk governance and the setting of maximum risk liability and catastrophe reporting structure exposure limits and through the day to day pricing The chart below outlines our structure for the and risk selection activities of our underwriters.
governance and reporting of risk.
Credit risk: The risk of loss if a counterparty fails to Key developments in 2007 included: perform its obligations or fails to perform them in a Review of our risk framework in conjunction with timely fashion.
These counterparties include the Group Risk Committee.
This includes reinsurers, brokers, insured and reinsured clients, changes to our methodology for risk definition coverholders and investments.
Credit risk falls and evaluation, as well as a more detailed under the ownership of the Finance Director and is Risk management governance structure Board Responsible for approval of risk governance structure.
Approves high level risk appetite.
Receives reports from Audit Committee on risk and internal controls.
Audit Committee Considers adequacy of risk management and internal control framework.
Receives and reviews reports on risk management issues from Risk Committee.
Receives and reviews reports from risk management function and internal audit on status of internal controls.
Risk Committee Reviews risk evaluation against appetite.
Includes Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chief Operating Officer, Underwriting Director, Chief Risk Officer and Head of Internal Audit.
Considers actions to improve management of risk.
Considers new or emerging risk.
Key Performance Risk Assessment Chief Risk Officer reports on matters to Chief Executive.
and Monitoring Reviews and reports on risk status to Risk Committee.
Indicators Conducts rolling review of risk and risk controls in conjunction with risk owners.
team Proposes levels of capital to be held for non-modelled operational risk.
Claims ratio of 36% favourably compares to Risk owners and Required to evaluate status of risk and effectiveness of risk mitigation.
expectation of 55% Responsible for day to day oversight of risk and design or operation of managers risk mitigation.
Maximum RDS represents Required to carry out risk management improvement as necessary.
89% of risk appetite 24 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review governing risk DFA whisker plots managed by the Broker Committee through the Post-event treatments include: Credit Risk team, Reinsurance Security Committee, Detection, for example by way of exception Reinsurance collection team and Investments team.
250 Mitigation through action taken to reduce 200 Market risk: The risk arising from fluctuations in financial impact such as debt recovery or values of, or income from, assets, in interest rates or business continuity.
The Finance Director is During 2008 we are developing the risk 100 responsible for market risk and day to day management framework so that we are able to management is delegated to the Chief Investment evaluate risk net of the effectiveness of both the 50 Officer.
From March 2008 market risk will be design and performance of controls and other risk 0 monitored by a newly appointed Head of mitigation actions.
Non marine Marine Aviation UK Commercial Amlin Total Investment Risk reporting to the Chief Risk Officer.
Bermuda Development of Enterprise 50% of modelled scenarios will fall within the box, and 99% will Liquidity risk: The risk arising from insufficient Risk Management be between the two whiskers.
The red dot indicates the modelled mean result and the middle bar is the median.
financial resources being available to meet liabilities The economic, or dynamic financial analysis DFA, Illustrative graph based on the 2007 plan.
The scope of liquidity risk includes model is a key enterprise wide stochastic tool which Source: Amlin managing unexpected changes in funding sources, enables us to analyse the potential economic market conditions and cash flow planning.
Liquidity performance of the business.
The resulting output using in house catastrophe modelling capability risk is owned by the Finance Director and is allows us to consider the best estimate result for the and proprietary models as appropriate conduct a managed within the Finance and Treasury teams.
various components of our business such as stress test of approximately 30 major catastrophe individual insurance risk classes and also to events.
These events, which include, but are not Operational risk: Risk resulting from inadequate or consider the range of possibilities around the mean.
limited to, those prescribed by the Lloyds Franchise failed internal processes, people and systems, or This is an invaluable tool in the assessment of Performance Department, are used to examine our from external events, including regulatory control business risk.
Using the best estimate reserve levels gross and net exposure to major catastrophe events.
Our approach is to split operational risk into for historical performance and detailed claims data, a the control failure part of risk, which is covered and through predicting the levels of premium The actuarial team also conduct a quarterly within each specific risk area and b external risk income and rating, the model is used to forecast assessment of reserving risk comparing carried events or internal generic risk such as fraud, which business performance for future years.
reserves with their best estimate outcome.
This are handled as a separate risk category.
Operational analysis is used to compare year on year reserving risk is owned by the Chief Operating Officer and For the past five years the model has been used to and provide assurance on the consistency of managed by operational managers and the Human evaluate and score the business planning forecasts carried reserves.
Furthermore, using a methodology Resources Director.
There are regular operational provided by the underwriting divisions.
The model known as bootstrapping, a broad assessment of management reports on the status of key controls.
recognises the value of diversification inherent in the risk and probability of reserve inadequacy is Business continuity risk and planning is regularly writing a number of non-correlating classes of carried out.
A key benefit of this approach is to enable us to understand what the changes to one Plans for further development of Strategic risk: Risk associated with the component of business or asset class mix, has on risk management appropriateness of business strategy in the face of the overall potential of the business.
In 2008 we aim to have completed the the current and future political, legislative and implementation of the new risk management economic environment.
Strategic risk is owned by From the DFA model, we are able to run simulations system and the adoption of a new framework the Chief Executive and is discussed and reviewed of potential underwriting result outcomes.
This will include a further evaluation of by the Executive Management Group and by the whisker chart above shows the loss ratio distribution risk pre and post mitigating controls and it will Amlin plc and operating subsidiary boards.
of each Syndicate division, for Amlin Bermuda and enable us to more quickly report on the status of the Group as a whole.
The combination of the risk against a more detailed appetite.
The detailed risk disclosures for underwriting, credit divisions shows the benefit of diversification with the and market risk are set out in detail starting on page volatility of the Group result less than the volatility of In 2008 we will commence more detailed risk 51 of the accounts.
based analysis of our investments.
Risk management processes The RAM team are also responsible for reviewing The development of our economic model will The risk management framework makes it clear and reporting on the Groups realistic disaster include regular enterprise wide reporting of who has the responsibility for ownership and scenarios.
Every quarter the underwriting divisions the key measures of profit and risk.
management of risks and their associated controls.
The RAM team are responsible for ensuring that all Progress against operational objectives risks are captured, that their status is recorded on 2007 priority Achievement the risk management system and that there is an appropriate evaluation of the potential size and Develop the DFA model to cover the whole Group Successfully completed so that economic analysis frequency of a risk event occurring.
Meetings are including Amlin Bermuda and all investment assets.
is possible over whole enterprise.
held with risk owners on a quarterly or half yearly basis to discuss the status of risks, adequacy of Continue to develop our catastrophe risk Aggregate data capture and analysis capabilities design and performance of controls, and any loss aggregation and modelling.
have been enhanced with the development of a event or near misses.
A number of classes, including direct property and terrorism, are already reporting The Group has over 90 separate risks identified, detailed aggregates on a regular basis.
all of which are defined by event, cause and effect.
These are managed and controlled in a number 2008 priorities of ways: Deliver new risk assessment and reporting framework including new risk reporting tool.
Pre-event treatments include: Develop Enterprise Risk Management benchmarking reporting from new risk reporting tool and DFA model.
Transferred, for example by way of insurance.
Improve aggregate data capture across all relevant classes of business so that Amlin has an increased Prevented by physical means.
capability and enhanced reporting against exposure limits.
Controlled by way of policies, procedures Develop investment risk management capability following recruitment of Head of Investment Risk.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 25 2007 gross loss ratio %
