Business review 1 Our supply chain Barclays as a responsible global citizen Since 2006 we have required all new and high-risk suppliers to provide Twenty years ago the idea of corporate citizenship described a companys us detailed information about their social, environmental and ethical community activities, which rarely extended beyond philanthropic performance.
In the last year Absa adapted it for the special conditions donations.
Public understanding of the responsibilities of business has of the South African market.
For us, being a responsible global citizen does not just cover our award-winning community investment programme, Measuring the emissions generated from a companys supply chain is also but also includes how we behave as an employer, and how we manage becoming increasingly important, and we are engaging more with our Barclays wider social and environmental impacts.
This included a special forum for nine key suppliers, which has been followed up with one-to-one discussions to ascertain the Climate change has become the single biggest challenge the world faces proportion of each firms emissions that are attributable to us.
We have at the beginning of the 21st century, and in response we are focusing identified a number of ways to help suppliers address their emissions, and increasingly on our work on the environment, which includes both our now have a working group in place to take these ideas forward in 2008. direct and indirect impacts.
Human rights The environment We have represented the banking sector on the Business Leaders As a major financial services organisation we want to take a lead in helping Initiative on Human Rights since its launch in 2003 and, since October our clients thrive in a lower-carbon future, and use our position to press 2006, have co-chaired the United Nations Environment Programme for appropriate policies and regulatory frameworks to deal with climate Finance Initiative UNEPFI human rights work stream.
We will be 100% carbon neutral globally by next year.
We remain worked as part of a team of 12 financial institutions to develop an online committed to increasing our energy efficiency, and reducing our carbon tool for UNEPFI that provides guidance on human rights issues associated footprint on an ongoing basis, as well as helping our supply chain reduce with corporate lending.
It is designed to help identify potential risks and its emissions.
how they may be reduced or managed.
The guidance covers specific We also believe we can make a positive impact though the products and issues relevant to different sectors, ranging from employment terms and services we offer, and the lending decisions we make.
In 2007, we invested conditions, to health and safety, to child labour, to relocation of further in our emissions trading capability, and moved into the consumer communities, among many others.
market with new lower-carbon products and services.
An example is Barclaycard Breathe, a new card that gives consumers incentives when they buy green products, and donates half its profits to environmental projects.
In the wholesale market we have Barclays Capitals commitment to the EU emissions trading market, where it brings its full range of commodity trading and risk management expertise to bear to help clients manage their carbon risk.
Since 2005 we have traded over 600 million tonnes of carbon credits, with a notional value of over $14 billion.
Project Finance Deals whole Barclays Group Non project AB C Project finance deals a Higher Medium Lower Total Total Project finance finance referred to E and Category Risk Risk Risk 2007 2006 deals by sector deals S Risk Team Number of project Agriculture and Fisheries 0 4 finance deals 7 18 29 54 36 Forestry and Logging 0 16 Deals completed Manufacturing 3 30 or pending 4 12 29 45 30 Chemicals, pharmaceuticals of which, number manufacturing and bulk storage 1 6 where sustainability related Mining and Metals 6 91 changes were made.
4 12 29 45 30 b Power generation 16 118 Deals considered, but not participated in 36096 Oil and gas 4 41 Projects referred Utilities and Waste Management 5 7 from EU 5 9 24 38 25 Infrastructure including dams, pipelines 9 26 Projects referred Service Industry 10 7 from Africa 21475 Totals 54 346 Projects referred from Asia Pacific 04153 Projects referred from North America 04043 Note a Project finance as defined by Basel II www.
b Of which non-fossil fuel deals contributed 9 and 89 to project finance deals and nonproject finance deals referred to E and S Team respectively.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 73 Corporate sustainability Barclays an international picture Barclays as an employer 2007 2006 One of our guiding principles is to develop the best people, and in such an intensely competitive industry we want to find, develop and retain the best FTE by world region talent.
We are committed to diversity as a way of helping to ensure we are able UK 61,900 62,400 to attract the best people.
We have a wide range of development and leadership programmes for employees, and a policy that ensures that they are all treated Africa & Middle East 51,748 44,326 with respect, regardless of age, race, sexuality, gender or disability.
Continental Europe 9,750 8,100 Americas 6,413 4,905 We use our employee opinion surveys to understand and engage our Asia Pacific 5,089 2,869 employees.
We continue to score well but we are working to improve our scores further.
Total 134,900 122,600 As we grow internationally our workforce becomes ever more diverse, Global employment statistics reflecting the worldwide markets in which we operate.
The percentage of UK ethnic minority employees has increased significantly from 7.2% in FTE 134,900 122,600 2001, to 12.3% in 2007.
As we grow we are determined to build the local Total employee headcount 141,885 133,529 talent base in the markets in which we operate, we see this as a crucial Percentage of female employees 56.3% 60.6% success factor for us in emerging markets.
In the UK we also continued to Percentage of female senior executives 13.7% 12.2% invest in the disability mentoring and reasonable adjustments schemes Percentage of female senior managers 20.6% 20.8% in 2007, and have again been ranked in the top 20 of Stonewalls list of the Percentage working part time 12.4% 13.6% best employers for lesbian, gay and bisexual people.
Turnover rate 18.3% 16.9% Resignation rate 12.3% 10.9% These are clear successes: but we have much more work to do on our Sickness absence rate 3.0% 3.6% gender balance, especially at senior level: 20.6% of our senior managers are women.
The drive to improve this comes from the very top of the bank.
Barclays UK employees Barclays in the community a b 2007 2006 Barclays has always been a proud and committed investor in its communities.
In 2007 we invested 52.4 million in communities around the world UK employment statistics and 44,000 Barclays employees in 26 countries were involved in our Total employee headcount 61,900 62,400 fundraising and volunteering initiatives.
Our flagship programme, Banking Average length of service years 9.7 9.8 on Brighter Futures, enabled us to use our skills and expertise, as well as Percentage working part time 16.8% 21.8% our money, to maximum effect helping people improve their economic Sickness absence rate 3.0% 4.0% prospects, especially those in poverty, disadvantage, and debt.
Projects Turnover rate 16.6% 19.0% ranged from supporting elderly people in the UK who are in financial Resignation rate 11.1% 12.0% difficulty through to helping Ugandan women affected by HIV AIDS to set up their own businesses.
This is not just about good works: the more we Women in Barclays help individuals and communities improve their economic circumstances Percentage of all employees 58.0% 61.0% and financial literacy, the better the environment in which we operate.
Percentage of management grades 28.4% 33.0% We are investing $150 million over the next five years in the Banking on Percentage of senior executives 13.0% 12.9% Brighter Futures programme.
1,500 projects will be supported around the Ethnic minorities in Barclays world, and employees will be encouraged to volunteer 150,000 hours of Percentage of all employees 12.3% 12.7% their time on projects focusing on financial education, entrepreneurship, Percentage of management grades 10.0% 8.1% employment and financial inclusion.
Percentage of senior executives 6.6% 6.1% Governance Disabled employees in Barclays Corporate responsibility is firmly established as one of the Barclays Percentage of all employees 3.4% 5.0% Principal Risks, which means that it is managed within a robust framework of internal control, governance, and risk management processes.
Age profile Responsibility for Barclays Corporate Sustainability Strategy rests with the Employees aged under 25 16.5% 17.4% Group Executive Committee, with oversight by the Board.
The Group Chief Employees aged 25-29 17.0% 15.9% Executive has primary responsibility for embedding corporate sustainability Employees aged 30-49 54.2% 56.0% throughout Barclays, supported by the Group Executive Committee.
Employees aged 50 10.3% 10.7% This includes ensuring there are effective processes for identifying and Pensions monitoring all the business risks or commercial opportunities that have Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund active members 53,473 55,558 a significant social, environmental or ethical dimension.
Current pensioners 48,607 43,754 The Brand and Reputation Committee is a sub-committee of Group Executive Committee, and is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Director on the Board.
This Committees role is to identify and manage issues that could have a significant impact on Barclays reputation.
It met six times during the year and dealt with issues ranging from Barclays presence in Zimbabwe to new areas of commodities business and the fee structure for Barclaycard.
The Community Partnerships Committee, chaired by Gary Hoffman, sets the policy and provides governance for our global community investment programmes, and the Environmental Steering Group gives direction and governance to our environmental and climate change strategies.
The Treating Customers Fairly TCF Forum, chaired by our Consumer champion, Catharine French, monitors compliance across all retail and Notes wholesale business units, UK and non-UK, to embed TCF principles in our a 2007 UK data includes 1,000 BGI employees relationships with customers.
Taking this wider approach to TCF goes b 2006 UK data excludes 800 BGI employees significantly beyond our regulatory requirements.
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review Risk management 1 Risk factors 78 Barclays approach to risk management 80 Introduction 80 Organisation and structure 83 Material risks and control framework 85 Capital adequacy 85 Model governance 89 Credit risk management 90 Organisation and structure 90 Measurement, reporting and internal ratings 91 Credit risk mitigation 94 Monitoring of loans and advances 96 Market risk management 102 Organisation and structure 102 Traded market risk 103 Interest rate risk in the banking book 104 Other market risks 104 Derivatives 105 Disclosures about certain trading activities 106 Liquidity risk management 107 Operational risk management 109 Organisation and structure 109 Measurement and capital modelling 109 Operational risk events 110 Financial crime risk management 111 Anti-money laundering and sanctions 111 Fraud 112 Security 112 Statistical information 113 Bar Barcla clay ys s PL PLC Annual R C Annual Report 2007 eport 2007 75 75 76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review Risk management 1 List of Credit, Market and Operational Risk tables and charts included within the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts Page Page Risk Financial Risk Financial Name Management Risk Notes Name Management Risk Notes Group Risk Structure 83 Off-Balance Sheet and Other Credit Exposure 118 Governance Structure at Group Level 84 Notional Principal Amounts of Credit Derivatives 118 Principal Risks and Other Level 1 Risks 85 Credit Risk Loans Summary 118 Risk Appetite Concepts 86 Potential Problem Loans Summary 120 Average Supply of Economic Capital 88 Interest Foregone on Credit Risk Loans 120 Average Economic Capital Allocation by Business 88 Analysis of Impairment Provision Charges 120 Average Economic Capital Allocation by Risk Type 88 Impairment Provision Charges Loan Loss Ratios 121 Risk Tendency by Business 94 Analysis of Allowance for Impairment Provision For Bad and Doubtful Debts 121 Loans and Advances by Retail and Wholesale Portfolios 96 Allowance for Impairment Provision Balances Ratios 121 Loans and Advances to Customers by Industry 96 Movements in Allowance for Impairment Provision Charge Geographical Analysis of Loans and Advances to Customers 96 for Bad and Doubtful Debts 122 Analysis of LTV Ratios of Mortgages in UK Home Loan Portfolio Amounts Written Off 122 at most recent sanction 96 Recoveries 122 Loans and Advances, Balances and Limits to Wholesale Customers by Internal Risk Rating % 97 Impairment Allowance Provisions Charged Against Profit 123 Credit Exposure to Sub-Investment Grade Countries 97 Total Impairment Specific Provision charges for Bad and Doubtful Debts by Industry 123 Maturity Analysis of Loans and Advances to Customers % 97 Allowance for Impairment Specific Provision Charges PPL Balances by Geography 98 for Bad and Doubtful Debts by Industry 124 CRL Balances by Geography 98 Analysis of Amounts Written Off and Recovered by Industry 124 PPL Loans and Advances Ratio % 98 Total Impairment Allowance Provision Coverage CRL Loans and Advances Ratio % 98 of Credit Risk Loans 125 Impairment Provisions coverage of CRLs % 99 Total Impairment Allowance Provision Coverage of Potential Credit Risk Loans 125 Impairment Provisions coverage of PCRLs % 99 Barclays Capital DVaR Summary Table 235 Impairment Charges for Bad and Doubtful Debts 100 Sensitivity Analysis Impact on Net Interest Income 236 Impairment Provisions Charges Over Five Years 100 Sensitivity Analysis Impact on Equity 236 Total Write-offs of Impaired Financial Assets 101 Concentrations of Interest Rate Risk 237 Market Risk Business Control Structure 103 Effective Interest Rate 239 Barclays Capitals Trading Revenue 104 Carrying Value of Foreign Currency Net Investment, Borrowing Movement in Fair Value of Commodity Derivative Positions 106 and Derivatives used to hedge them 240 Maturity Analysis of Commodity Derivative Fair Value 106 Listed and Unlisted Debt Securities and Market Counterparties Operational Risk Events 10k 110 where external ratings are available 243 Operational Risk Events by Risk Category 110 Wholesale Lending: Default Grades 243 Risk Tendency by Business 113 Retail Lending: Barclays Retail Grades 243 Loans and Advances 113 Maximum Exposure to Credit Risk 245 Maturity Analysis of Loans and Advances to Banks 114 Nature of Collateral Obtained or Other Credit Risk Mitigation 246 Interest Rate Sensitivity of Loans and Advances 114 Credit Risk Concentrations by Geographical Sector 247 Loans and Advances to Customers by Industry 114 Credit Risk Concentrations by Industrial Sector 248 Loans and Advances to Customers in the UK 115 Financial Assets that are Neither Past Due nor Individually Impaired 251 Loans and Advances to Customers in Other EU Countries 115 Financial Assets that are Past Due but not Individually Impaired 253 Loans and Advances to Customers in the US 116 Impaired Financial Assets 254 Loans and Advances to Customers in Africa 116 Impairment Allowance 254 Loans and Advances to Customers in the Rest of the World 116 Collateral and Other Credit Enhancements Held 255 Maturity Analysis of Loans and Advances to Customers 117 Collateral and Other Credit Enhancements Obtained 255 Loans and Advances to Borrowers in Currencies Other Contractual Maturity of Financial Assets And Liabilities 257 Than the Local Currency of the Borrower for Countries Contractual Maturity of Financial Assets on an Undiscounted Basis 259 where this exceeds 1% of the Total Group Assets 117 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 77 Risk management Risk factors disclosure Business conditions and general economy Risk factors The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by a The following information sets forth certain risk factors worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom, globally that the Group believes could cause its actual future results or in certain individual markets such as the US or South Africa.
Factors to differ materially from expected results.
For further such as interest rates, inflation, investor sentiment, the availability and information related to such matters, please refer to page 67 cost of credit, the liquidity of the global financial markets and the level and volatility of equity prices could significantly affect the activity level Barclays Capital credit market positions, pages 80-81 of customers.
For example: 2007 risk developments, pages 96 to 104 credit risk An economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates could management and market risk management, pages adversely affect the credit quality of Barclays on-balance sheet and 107-111 liquidity risk management and operational risk off-balance sheet assets by increasing the risk that a greater number management, page 217 Note 35 legal proceedings and of Barclays customers would be unable to meet their obligations.
page 218 Note 36 competition and regulatory matters.
A market downturn or worsening of the economy could cause the However, other factors could also adversely affect the Group to incur mark to market losses in its trading portfolios.
Group results and so the factors discussed in this report A market downturn could reduce the fees Barclays earns for managing should not be considered to be a complete set of all assets.
For example, a higher level of domestic or foreign interest rates potential risks and uncertainties.
or a downturn in trading markets could affect the flows of assets under management.
A market downturn would be likely to lead to a decline in the volume of customer transactions that Barclays executes and, therefore, a decline in the income it receives from fees and commissions and interest.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Credit risk may also arise where the downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes the fair value of the Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from commercial and consumer loans and advances, including credit card lending.
Credit risk may also be manifested as country risk where difficulties may arise in the country in which the exposure is domiciled, thus impeding or reducing the value of the asset, or where the counterparty may be the country itself.
Another form of credit risk is settlement risk, which is the possibility that the Group may pay a counterparty for example, a bank in a foreign exchange transaction but fail to receive the corresponding settlement in return.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the Groups earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The main market risk arises from trading activities.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk in the banking book and market risk in the pension fund.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from human factors, external events, and inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
Operational risks are inherent in Barclays operations and are typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational risk include operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Capital risk The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to the Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources to: management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risk: Meet minimum regulatory capital requirements in the UK and in tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance other jurisdictions such as the US and South Africa where regulated processes and are reviewed by the Executive Committee, Group activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate as a bank Finance Director and the Board Risk Committee: is dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital resources.
the tax charge is also reviewed by the Board Audit Committee: Support its strong credit rating.
In addition to capital resources, the the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are fully Groups rating is supported by a diverse portfolio of activities, an considered before proceeding: increasingly international presence, consistent profit performance, prudent risk management and a focus on value creation.
A weaker the Group takes appropriate advice from reputable professional firms: credit rating would increase the Groups cost of funds.
the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides Support its growth and strategic options.
ongoing technical training: Liquidity risk the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations areas of the business: when they fall due and to replace funds when they are withdrawn, with the Group uses effective, well-documented and controlled processes consequent failure to repay depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
to ensure compliance with tax disclosure and filing obligations: The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-specific and market-wide where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the events including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and acquisition interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax authority in an open and constructive manner.
Business risk Business risk is the risk of adverse outcomes resulting from a weak Effect of governmental policy and regulation competitive position or from poor choice of strategy, markets, products, The Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by the fiscal or activities or structures.
Major potential sources of business risk include other policies and other actions of various governmental and regulatory revenue volatility due to factors such as macroeconomic conditions, authorities in the UK, the European Union, the US, South Africa inflexible cost structures, uncompetitive products or pricing and and elsewhere.
Areas where changes could have an impact include: Insurance risk the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and Insurance risk is the risk that the Group will have to make higher than regulatory authorities: anticipated payments to settle claims arising from its long-term and short-term insurance businesses.
general changes in government or regulatory policy that may significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets Legal risk in which the Group operates: The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all countries in which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to many general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, prudential forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways.
Primarily: rules relating to the capital adequacy framework page 85 and rules designed to promote financial stability and increase depositor protection: the Groups business may not be conducted in accordance with applicable laws around the world: changes and rules in competition and pricing environments: contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended further developments in the financial reporting environment: or may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and changes the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names may in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and not be adequately protected: and other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the producing social instability or legal uncertainty which in turn may conduct of its business.
affect demand for the Groups products and services.
The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
Regulatory compliance risk Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal Regulatory compliance risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
with the laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming and services industry.
Non compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even if the damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme Group is successful.
Although the Group has processes and controls to cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
manage legal risks, failure to manage these risks could impact the Group Impact of strategic decisions taken by the Group adversely, both financially and by reputation.
The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to Tax risk the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates.
of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate A number of double taxation agreements entered between countries growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans do not deliver as also impact on the taxation of the Group.
The Group is also subject to anticipated, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax Competition law or in the interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes The global financial services markets in which the Group operates are in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by highly competitive.
Innovative competition for corporate, institutional tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax and retail clients and customers comes both from incumbent players charge.
It could also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with and a steady stream of new market entrants.
The landscape is expected required tax procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result of a to remain highly competitive in all areas, which could adversely affect particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs associated with particular the Groups profitability if the Group fails to retain and attract clients transactions are greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability and customers.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 79 Risk management Introduction This risk section outlines Barclays approach to risk 2007 Developments Wholesale credit risk management, explaining our objectives as well as the The results of severe disruption in the US sub-prime mortgage market high level policies, processes, measurement techniques were felt across many wholesale credit markets in the second half of 2007, and controls that are used.
This also presents our and were reflected in wider credit spreads, higher volatility, tight liquidity in summary information and disclosure on our portfolios interbank and commercial paper markets, more constrained debt issuance and lower investor risk appetite.
Although impairment and other credit and positions.
Consequent to the adoption of IFRS 7, provisions in Barclays Capital rose as a consequence of these difficult some of our risk disclosure is moved from this section sub-prime market conditions, our risks in these portfolios were identified to the financial statements section of this report, as in the first half and management actions were taken to reduce limits and described in our list of tables on page 77. positions.
Further reductions and increased hedging through the rest of the year continued to bring net positions down and limited the financial effect of the significant decline in market conditions.
Our ABS CDO Super Senior positions were reduced during the year and our remaining exposure reflected netting against writedowns, hedges, and subordination.
At the end of the year, market conditions remained difficult with reduced liquidity in cash and securitised products, and reflected stress at some counterparties such as the monoline insurers.
The international markets for Leveraged Finance were also disrupted in 2007.
The level of underwritten positions was steady during the second half, with some small turnover in the portfolio.
The vast majority of positions held were senior tranches.
Liquidity conditions at year end remained constrained.
The Groups wholesale credit risk profile in 2007 benefited from the diversification available from the UK and international portfolios, which grew by 14% and 41% respectively.
The corporate credit risk profile remained steady, with corporate credit ratings and watch list balances broadly stable.
At Barclays Commercial Bank there was good growth in loans and advances.
The risk profile of the Larger Business portfolio remained stable as early warning list balances, default rates and loan loss rates were steady.
There was no increase to exposure levels to leveraged finance during 2007 and limits were reduced.
Wholesale credit portfolio performance was steady in South Africa, particularly for Absas most significant wholesale portfolios agriculture, property and sovereign lending which were relatively unaffected during 2007 by interest rate rises compared with consumer-facing sectors and retail portfolios.
Relatively good performance in these sectors in 2007 was reflected in a reduction in Absas wholesale impairment charge.
After many years of positive economic conditions in South Africa, the wholsesale portfolios will be under more stress in current market conditions.
Loan loss rates across the Western Europe and Emerging Markets wholesale businesses were stable in 2007.
The Group continued to invest in risk management infrastructure to support these businesses growth initiatives in Dubai, India, Egypt and Italy.
Going into 2008, the credit environment reflects concern about weakening economic conditions in our major markets.
Credit spreads and other indicators signal that the credit cycle has changed after a long period of stability.
We expect some deterioration in credit metrics as default probabilities move toward their medium-term averages.
This environment has led to a more cautious approach to credit assessment, pricing and ongoing control in the financial industry, which we believe will continue through the year.
80 80 Bar Barcla clay ys s PL PLC Annual R C Annual Report 2007 eport 2007 Business review 1 Retail credit risk Liquidity risk A continued improvement in credit quality in the UK unsecured portfolios Bank funding markets and general liquidity in credit markets came under was a principal feature of the Groups retail credit risk profile during 2007. pressure in 2007.
In the second half, some money market participants Barclaycard continued the underwriting revisions begun in 2006 in UK faced difficulties in obtaining funding beyond one week, and term LIBOR credit cards, and successfully reduced impairment in the main Barclays premiums rose despite the helpful provision of liquidity by central banks.
Flows into delinquency and arrears balances fell, The cost of longer-term bank funding and capital also increased, and as did general charge-offs, which were helped by a fall in charge-offs due funding channels such as securitisation and covered bond issuance to bankruptcy.
New customer quality increased again in 2007, reflected in became significantly constrained.
Despite these developments, the Groups a sustained improvement in average approval scores and a fall in early liquidity position remained strong due to its deep retail funding base, its cycle delinquency rates.
diversity of institutional funding sources across tenors, counterparties and geographies and its limited reliance on securitisation as a funding source.
The UK unsecured loans portfolio, which is now managed within UK Retail Banking, saw reduced early and late cycle delinquency resulting from Operational risk revised underwriting criteria.
Improved collections processes helped In 2007, Barclays embedded the advanced measurement approach to reduce impairment in Local Business, while in UK Home Finance, AMA to operational risk across the Group, having received AMA delinquency and possession rates remained at the lows recorded since approval from the FSA and the SARB.
Barclays now allocates operational 2004, and impairment charges were negligible.
Barclays delinquency and risk economic capital by business, providing operational insight and possession rates remain below industry averages, reflecting the high credit greater tangible incentives to the Groups businesses to further improve quality of the portfolio.
the management of their operational risk profiles.
As a percentage of revenues, operational risk events fell in 2007.
Lending criteria in Absas retail portfolios were tightened in response to a more difficult credit environment, signalled by a rise in arrears rates.
Financial crime The change in conditions was primarily driven by a prolonged series of The Group introduced two-factor authentication for online transactions interest rate rises and the implementation of new consumer lending through its PINsentry device and continued to offer all UK personal legislation in June 2007. customers anti-phishing software to combat internet fraud.
Combined with improvements in transaction profiling, these changes enabled We increased our investment in credit risk infrastructure in India and Italy us to reduce net reported fraud losses.
The threat from financial crime to support the launch or expansion of retail banking operations in those constantly evolves, however, and Barclays will continue to build the countries during 2007.
Barclays has also established a credit risk capacity to respond rapidly to emerging issues as well as to invest modelling centre in Madrid to support our strategic growth objectives in strategic improvements in transaction channel security.
in the Western Europe business.
Basel II and capital management The US card business continued to grow, and the underwriting and New capital adequacy rules came into force in the UK from 1st January account management criteria were adjusted as the US retail environment 2008, following the implementation of the Basel II banking accord.
Barclays regulatory capital requirement will now more closely reflect Looking ahead this year, we expect the retail credit environment to be the risk profile as measured by its own risk measurement systems an more challenging in Absa and to some degree in the US portfolio.
The UK approach termed the Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach or AIRB.
portfolios performance, which has improved in the past two years, will be Permission from the FSA to apply the AIRB approach to capital calculations subject to the evolving economic climate anticipated in 2008. was the culmination of a lengthy and detailed programme of work across Risk tendency all business areas and covering all risk types.
As part of the application Risk tendency at 2007 year-end reflected an increase in portfolio size as process, Barclays assessed over 200 models to ensure that they were well as some weakening in credit grades, evidenced by wider spreads in consistent with regulators standards and that they met the use test, which wholesale credit and potentially more difficult conditions in some of the assesses a models fitness as an input to capital calculations by the extent international retail portfolios in 2008. to which management make use of its output in business decisions.
Country risk Our focus over the coming years will be to further enhance risk models, The portfolio is reasonably well diversified, assisted by increases in processes and systems infrastructure, in line with our ambition to remain business levels in a range of European, African and Asian countries.
at the leading edge of risk management.
With the most significant portfolios already consistent with the AIRB approach, the focus of our Market risk Basel II work will now be to progress the roll-out of the advanced approach Dislocation in the credit markets had an impact on all major interest rate, for the remaining minority of our portfolios.
In line with the schedule equity and foreign exchange markets, which also experienced higher agreed with regulators, we will complete this process by 2011. volatility, particularly in the second half.
Barclays Capitals market risk exposure, as measured by average total Daily Value at Risk DVaR, increased 13% to an average of 42m in 2007.
Over the same period, average daily market risk revenue increased 19% to 26m, satisfying our objective that trading revenues should grow at or above the rate of increase in risk levels.
The average DVaR on interest rate and credit spread exposures was broadly unchanged, with increasing volatility in credit spreads offset by reduced positions held in the credit markets.
This reduction in exposure resulted in a lower level of credit stress loss, which is another important market risk control for Barclays Capital.
Average commodity DVaR and equity DVaR increased as those businesses grew.
Diversification across risk types remaining significant, reflecting the broad product mix.
Higher market volatilities in the fourth quarter led to an increase in DVaR at year end, and will contribute to higher average DVaRs in 2008.
Bar Barcla clay ys s PL PLC Annual R C Annual Report 2007 eport 2007 81 81 Risk management Barclays approach to risk management Risk management is a fundamental part of Barclays business activity and Barclays approach to risk management an essential component of its planning process.
To keep risk management Barclays approach to risk management involves a number at the centre of the executive agenda, it is embedded in the everyday of fundamental elements that drive our processes across management of the business.
the Group: Barclays ensures that it has the functional capacity to manage the risk in new and existing businesses.
At a strategic level, our risk management The Groups Risk appetite sets out the level of risk that the objectives are: Bank is willing to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
This is expressed as the Groups appetite for earnings volatility To identify the Groups material risks and ensure that business profile and plans are consistent with risk appetite.
across all businesses from credit, market, and operational risk.
It is calibrated against our broad financial targets, including To optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and income and impairment targets, dividend coverage and challenge structures.
It is prepared each year as part of the Groups To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by Medium Term Planning process, and combines a top-down effective risk infrastructure.
view of the Banks risk capacity with a bottom-up view of the risk profile requested and recommended by each business.
To manage risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
This entails making business plan adjustments as necessary to ensure that our Medium Term Plan creates a risk profile To help executives improve the control and coordination of risk taking across the business.
that meets our Risk Appetite page 86.
In pursuit of these objectives, Group Risk breaks down risk management The Principal risk policy covers the Groups main risk types, into five discrete processes: direct, assess, control, report, and assigning responsibility for the management of specific risks, manage challenge see panel below.
and setting out the requirements for control frameworks for all of the risk types.
The individual control frameworks are reinforced by a robust system of review and challenge, and a governance process of aggregation and broad review Process Strategy by businesses and risk across the Group page 83.
Understand the principal risks to achieving Direct Barclays Risk methodologies include systems that enable Group strategy.
the Group to measure, aggregate and report risk for internal Establish Risk Appetite.
As an example, our credit grading models produce Internal Ratings through internally derived Establish and communicate the risk management framework including estimates of default probabilities.
These measurements responsibilities, authorities and key controls.
are used by management in an extensive range of decisions, from credit grading, pricing and approval to portfolio Establish the process for identifying and Assess management, economic capital allocation and capital analysing business-level risks.
Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Establish key control processes and practices, Control including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Interpret and report on risk exposures, Report concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Review and challenge all aspects of the Manage Groups risk profile.
and Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Risk-Type Heads exist at Group-level for the main risk types, and report Organisation and structure to the Risk Director.
Along with their teams, they are responsible for Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight.
Group, from the Executive down through the organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these Each business has an embedded risk management team reporting to responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken at the most a Business Risk Director or Chief Credit Officer who reports to the Risk appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject to Director.
The risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation robust and effective review and challenge.
of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses.
Every business manager is accountable for managing risk in his or her Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk business area: they must understand and control the key risks inherent in Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification the business undertaken.
Each business area also employs risk specialists and management of their business risk profiles and for implementing to provide an independent control function and to support the development appropriate controls.
The functional coverage of risk responsibilities is of a strong risk management environment.
This functional approach to risk illustrated in the diagram below.
management is built on formal control processes that rely on individual Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk responsibility and independent oversight, as well as challenge through management and the control environment.
To support expanded risk taking, Barclays has continued to strengthen the The Board approves Risk Appetite and the Board Risk Committee monitors independent and specialised risk teams in each of its businesses, supported the Groups risk profile against this agreed appetite.
by matching teams at Group level, acting in both a consultancy and Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of oversight capacity.
As a prerequisite to business growth plans, it has made risk in their businesses.
the recruitment, development and retention of risk professionals a priority.
The Risk Director, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control.
Group Board Internal Audit Group Chief Executive Divisional Chief Executive Officers Group Finance Director Business Heads Risk Director Business Risk Directors or Chief Credit Officers Risk-Type Heads Corporate All Retail Wholesale Market Operational other Credit risk Credit risk risk risk risks UK Banking Barclays Capital Barclaycard International Retail and Commercial Bank Barclays Wealth Barclays Global Investors x Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 83 Business Risk Directors Risk management Barclays approach to risk management The Committees shown below receive regular and comprehensive reports.
its work on governance, risk and control issues of significance.
The Board Risk Committee receives a quarterly report covering all of our The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits principal risks.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
control issues of significance and half-yearly impairment allowances and An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
Both Committees also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and Committees are reported to the full Board, which also receives a concise Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially quarterly risk report.
Internal Audit supports both Committees by significant reputational impact.
attendance and or the provision of quarterly reports resulting from Governance structure at Group level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group risk appetite.
Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Review the Group risk profile.
of the Group Control Framework.
AUTHORITY Approves the Group Control Framework.
CONTROLS Reviews reports on control issues of APPETITE Approves minimum control requirements Group-level significance.
Risk adjusted Group Chief Executive performance ASSURANCE REPORTING AND CONTROL Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Risk Oversight Committee Treasury Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Ensures current risk profile is consistent Sets policy controls for liquidity, of the Group Control Framework.
maturity transformation and structural interest rate exposure.
Monitors compliance with the Debates and agrees actions on the risk Framework including remediation profile and risk strategy across the Group.
Monitors the Groups liquidity and of significant control issues.
Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Reviews reports on control issues of Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Monitors usage of regulatory and Group-level significance.
Oversees the management of the Groups capital plan.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Material risks and control framework Capital adequacy As well as overall responsibility for the Group's risk exposure versus In order to maximise shareholder value through optimising both the appetite, the Board is also responsible for the Group Internal Control and level and mix of capital resources, Barclays operates a centralised capital Assurance Framework GICAF.
As part of the GICAF, it approves the management model, considering both regulatory and economic capital.
Principal Risks Policy, which sets out responsibilities for the management Decisions on the allocation of capital resources, conducted as part of the of the Groups most significant risk exposures.
The Board oversees the strategic planning review, are based on a number of factors including operating effectiveness of the Principal Risks Policy through the regular returns on economic and regulatory capital.
review of reports on the Groups material risk exposures and controls.
The Groups capital management objectives are to: The Groups risk categorisation comprises 17 risk categories Level 1, Support the Groups AA credit rating.
thirteen of which are known as Principal Risks.
Each Principal Risk is owned by a senior individual at the Group level, who liaises with Principal Risk Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk owners within Business and Central Support Units.
The 17 risk categories appetite and economic capital requirements.
are shown in the panel below.
Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the FSAs minimum Each Group Principal Risk Owner GPRO is responsible for setting regulatory capital requirements and the US Federal Reserve Banks minimum control requirements for their risk and for overseeing the risk requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised.
and control performance across the Group.
Group control requirements Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum e. g. Group Policies Processes Committee oversight for each of these capital requirements.
risks are defined, in consultation with Business Units, and communicated and maintained by the GPRO.
Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Groups capital management objectives.
The Committee reviews actual and forecast Implementation of the control requirements for each Principal Risk capital demand and resources on a monthly basis.
provides each Business or Central Support Unit with the foundation of its system of internal control for that particular risk.
This will usually be built The processes in place for delivering the Groups capital management upon in more detail, according to the circumstances of each Business Unit, objectives include: to provide a complete and appropriate system of internal control.
Establishment of internal targets for capital demand and ratios The specific controls for individual Principal Risks are supplemented Ensuring local entity regulatory capital adequacy by generic risk management requirements.
These requirements are articulated as the Groups Operational Risk Management Framework Annual Risk Appetite setting see page 109 and include policies on: Review of the Group strategic medium-term plan Internal Risk Event Identification and Reporting Economic capital management Detailed Risk and Control Assessment Stress testing Key Indicators Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements Key Risk Scenarios Internal targets Business Unit and Central Support Unit Heads are responsible for To support its capital management objectives, the Group sets internal maintaining ongoing assurance that the controls they have put in place targets for its key capital ratios.
The internal targets exceed minimum to manage the risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
capital requirements to take into account: They are required to undertake a formal six-monthly review of assurance Possible volatility in the anticipated demand for capital caused by information.
These reviews support the regulatory requirement for the accessing new business opportunities, including mergers and Group to make a statement about its system of internal control the acquisitions, by unanticipated drawdown of committed facilities Turnbull statement, in the annual report and accounts.
or by deterioration in the credit quality of the Groups assets Possible volatility of reported profits and other capital resources compared with forecast Capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements A need for flexibility in debt capital issuance and securitisation plans Principal Risks Other Level 1 Risks Retail Credit Strategic Wholesale Credit Change Market Corporate Responsibility Capital Brand Management Liquidity Financial Crime Operations Technology People Regulatory Financial Reporting Legal Taxation Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 85 Risk management Barclays approach to risk management Local entity regulatory capital adequacy Financial Volatility is the level of potential deviation from expected financial The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at relevant points on the Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in risk profile.
It is established with reference to the strategic objectives and individual jurisdictions meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local to the business plans of the Group, including the achievement of annual management manages compliance with subsidiary entity minimum financial targets, payment of dividends, funding of capital growth and regulatory capital requirements with reporting to local Asset and Liability maintenance of acceptable capital ratios and our credit rating.
Committees and to Treasury Committee, as required.
The portfolio is analysed in this way at four representative levels: Injections of capital resources into Group subsidiary entities are controlled Expected performance including the average credit losses based under authorities delegated from the Group Executive Committee.
The on measurements over many years Groups policy is for profits generated in subsidiary entities to be A level of loss that corresponds to moderate increases in market, repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of dividends.
credit or operational risk from expected levels Annual risk appetite setting A more severe level of loss which is much less likely Risk Appetite is the level of risk Barclays chooses to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives, recognising a range of possible outcomes as business An extreme but highly improbable level of loss which is used to plans are implemented.
Barclays framework, approved by the Board Risk determine the Groups economic capital Committee, combines a top-down view of its capacity to take risk with a These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are bottom-up view of the business risk profile requested and recommended illustrated in the Risk Appetite concepts chart below.
The Mandate and Scale framework is a formal review and control of our To determine this acceptable level of risk, management estimates the business activities to ensure that they are within our mandate i. e. aligned potential earnings volatility from different businesses under various scenarios.
to the expectations of external stakeholders and are of an appropriate This annual setting of Risk Appetite considers the banks ability to support scale relative to the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
business growth, desired dividend payout levels and capital ratio targets.
Appropriate assurance is achieved by using limits and triggers to avoid If the projections entail too high a level of risk, management will challenge concentrations and operational risks which could lead to unexpected each area to find new ways to rebalance the business mix to incur less risk losses of a scale that would result in a disproportionate fall in Barclays on a diversified basis.
Performance against Risk Appetite is measured and market capitalisation.
reported to the Executive and Board regularly throughout the year.
Taken as a whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the Barclays believes that this framework enables it to: allocation of risk capacity to each business.
Since the level of loss at any Improve risk and return characteristics across the business given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category gives the Group Help meet growth targets within an overall risk appetite and protect clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout the enterprise.
the Groups performance Review of the Groups strategic medium-term plan Improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile Capital adequacy forms a critical part of the Groups annual strategic Improve executive management control and co-ordination of riskmedium-term planning process.
During the planning process, the Group taking across businesses sets limits for business capital demand to ensure the capital management objectives including meeting internal targets will continue to be met over Enable unused risk capacity to be identified and thus profitable the medium-term period.
Treasury Committee reviews the limits on a opportunities to be highlighted.
The Risk Appetite framework considers credit, market and operational risk and is applied using two perspectives: financial volatility and mandate and scale.
Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale Mean Loss Expected Economic capital Loss Moderate Stress Severe Stress Extreme Stress Potential size of loss in one year 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Probability of loss Business review 1 Achieving the planned performance in each business is dependent upon Stress testing the ability of the business to direct, assess, control, report, and manage As part of the annual stress testing process, Barclays estimates the impact and challenge the risks in the business accurately.
Group Risk supports the of a severe economic downturn on the projected demand and supply of planning process by providing robust review and challenge of the business capital.
This process enables the Group to assess whether it could meet its plans to ensure that: minimum regulatory capital requirements throughout a severe recession.
The figures relating to risk are internally consistent and accurate The Risk Appetite numbers are validated by estimating the Group sensitivity to adverse changes in the business environment and to include The plans are achievable given the risk management capabilities operational events that impact the Group as a whole using stress testing of the businesses and scenario analysis.
For instance, changes in certain macroeconomic The plans efficiently utilise, but do not exceed, the Groups risk appetite.
variables represent environmental stresses which may reveal systemic credit and market risk sensitivities in our retail and wholesale portfolios.
This review and challenge is achieved through Risk Executive Dialogues The recession scenarios considered incorporate changes in involving among others, the Group Risk Director and the business macroeconomic variables, including: risk directors.
Weaker GDP, employment or property prices Economic capital management Economic capital is an internal measure of the minimum equity and Higher interest rates preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating Lower equity prices based upon its risk profile.
Interest rate curve shifts Barclays assesses economic capital requirements by measuring the Group risk profile using both internally and externally developed models.
Such Group-wide stress tests allow senior management to gain a better The Group assigns economic capital primarily within the following risks: understanding of how portfolios are likely to react to changing economic Credit Risk, Market Risk, Business Risk, Operational Risk, Insurance Risk, and geopolitical conditions and how the Group can best prepare for and Fixed Assets and Private Equity.
Group Risk owns the methodology and react to them.
The stress test simulates the balance sheet and profit and policy for economic capital while the businesses are primarily responsible loss effects of stresses across the Group, investigating the impact on profits for the calculation.
and the ability to maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Insights gained are fully integrated into the senior management process and the Risk Appetite The Group regularly enhances its economic capital methodology and framework.
This process of analysis and senior management oversight benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
The framework reflects also provides the basis for fulfilling the stress testing requirements of default probabilities during average credit conditions, rather than those Basel II.
prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus removing cyclicality from the economic capital calculation.
Economic capital for wholesale credit risk Group-wide stress testing is only one of a number of stress test analyses includes counterparty credit risk arising as a result of credit risk on traded that are performed as part of the wider risk management process.
The framework also adjusts economic capital to reflect Specific stress test analysis is used across all risk types to gain a better time horizon, correlation of risks and risk concentrations.
understanding of the risk profile and the potential effects of changes in external factors.
These stress tests are performed at a range of different Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of Barclays levels, from analysis covering specific stresses on individual sub-portfolios businesses and risk activities.
A single cost of equity is applied to calculate e. g. high value mortgages in the South East of England, to portfolio level the cost of risk.
Economic capital allocations reflect varying levels of risk.
stresses e. g. the overall commodities portfolio.
The total average economic capital required by the Group, as determined Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange by risk assessment models and after considering the Groups estimated rate movements portfolio effects, is compared with the average supply of capital resources The Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign exchange to evaluate economic capital utilisation.
movements in reserves, goodwill, minority interests and other non Sterling The Groups economic capital calculations form the basis of its Internal debt capital as well as non Sterling risk weighted assets.
For material Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP submission to the FSA currencies, the Group seeks to hold capital in currencies to match the risk under Pillar 2 of Basel II.
weighted assets transacted in those currencies, in the same proportion as the Group capital ratio targets, also taking into account the impact of hedging net investments.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 87 Risk management Barclays approach to risk management Capital resources International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa economic In 2007, UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation increased 100m to capital allocation increased 400m to 1,600m 2006: 1,200m.
This was 3,400m 2006: 3,300m, reflecting lending growth in UK mortgages offset driven by lending growth across Western Europe and Emerging Markets by a reduction in consumer lending following methodology enhancements.
and some credit deterioration in Africa.
International Retail and Commercial Barclays Commercial Bank economic capital allocation increased 500m Banking Absa economic capital allocation excluding the risk borne by the to 3,200m 2006: 2,700m as a consequence of lending growth and minority interest increased 200m to 950m 2006: 750m, reflecting implementation of updated Credit and Operational Risk models.
lending growth in the business bank portfolio.
Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased 150m to 2,100m Barclays Capital economic capital increased 1,450m to 5,200m 2006: 1,950m, as a consequence of asset growth, predominantly 2006: 3,750m.
This was driven by growth in the investment portfolio, in secured lending and in Barclaycard international, offset by a reduction exposure to drawn leveraged finance underwriting positions and in UK Cards following the sale of Monument card portfolio.
deterioration in credit quality in the US.
a The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework 2007 2006 m m b Shareholders equity excluding minority interests less goodwill 14,150 11,400 Retirement benefits liability 1,150 1,300 Cash flow hedging reserve 250 100 Available for sale reserve 150 50 Preference shares 3,700 3,200 Available funds for economic capital excluding goodwill 19,100 15,950 b Average historic goodwill and intangible assets 8,400 7,750 c Available funds for economic capital 27,500 23,700 Average economic capital allocation by business m 07 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 07 06 07 06 07 06 06 06 UK Retail Barclays Barclaycard International International Barclays Barclays Barclays Head office Group e Banking Commercial Retail and Retail and Capital Global Wealth functions Centre Bank Commercial Commercial Investors and other d Banking Banking operations Absa ex Absa Average economic capital allocation by risk type m 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 Wholesale Retail Operational Market Business Fixed asset Other f credit risk credit risk risk risk risk risk risks Notes a Averages for the period will not correspond to period-end balances disclosed in the balance d Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central functional risks.
Numbers are rounded to the nearest 50m for presentational purposes only.
e The Groups practice is to maintain an appropriate level of excess capital held at b Average goodwill relates to purchased goodwill and intangible assets from business the Groups centre, which is not allocated to business units.
This variance arises as acquisitions.
a result of capital management timing and includes capital held to cover pension contribution risk.
c Available funds for economic capital as at 31st December 2007 stood at 29,700m 2006: 25,150m.
f Includes excess capital held of the Group centre: investments in associates: private equity risk: and insurance risk.
The model Barclays has a large number of models in place across the Group, covering validation exercise must demonstrate that the model is fit for purpose all risk types.
To minimise the risk of loss through model failure, a Group and provides accurate estimates.
The independent review process will Policy for the Control of Model Risk has been developed.
also ensure that all aspects of the model development process have The Policy helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting been performed in a suitable manner.
minimum standards around the end-to-end model development and The sign-off process ensures that the model is technically fit for purpose implementation process.
The Policy also sets the Group governance as well as ensuring that the model satisfies the business requirements and processes for all models, which allows model risk to be monitored across all the relevant regulatory requirements.
The rules for model sign-off are the Group, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an based on materiality, with all of a business units models at least initially early stage.
being approved in business-led committees, and Group involvement To help ensure that sufficient management time is spent on the more increasing as the models become more material.
The most material models material models, each model is provided with a materiality rating.
receive their ultimate sign-off for implementation from Group ExCo.
Group Model Risk Policy defines the materiality ranges for all model types.
All models within the Group are subject to an annual review, to ensure The materiality ranges are based on an assessment of the impact to the that the models are performing as expected, and that assumptions used Group in the event of a model error.
The materiality affects the approval in model development are still appropriate.
In additional to annual review, and reporting level for each model, with the most material models being many models are subject to more frequent performance monitoring.
approved by Group Executive Committee ExCo.
Model performance monitoring ensures that deficiencies in models The standards of model build, implementation, monitoring and are identified early, and that remedial action can be taken before the maintenance do not change with the materiality level.
deficiency becomes serious and affects the decision-making process.
Documentation must be sufficiently detailed to allow an expert to recreate Externally developed models are subject to the same standards as internal the model from the original data sources.
It must include a description of models, and must be initially approved for use following a validation and the data used for model development, the methodology used and the independent review process.
External models are also subject to the same rationale for choosing such a methodology, a description of any standards for ongoing monitoring and annual validation requirements.
assumptions used in the model, and details of where the model works well and areas that are known model weaknesses.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 89 Risk management Credit risk management The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income and Credit risk management as its most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any to controlling it.
The importance of credit risk is illustrated by noting that of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties two-thirds of risk-based economic capital is allocated to credit risk.
Credit fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
exposures arise principally in loans and advances.
Credit risk may also arise where the downgrading of an In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk management entitys credit rating causes the fair value of the Groups process and internal control framework described previously page 82. investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
Specific credit risk management objectives are: The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from To gain a clear and accurate understanding and assessment of credit commercial and consumer loans and advances, including risk across the business, from the level of individual facilities up to the credit card lending.
To control and plan the taking of credit risk, ensuring it is coherently priced across the business and avoiding undesirable concentrations.
To support strategic growth and decision-making based on sound credit risk management principles and a pro-active approach to identifying and measuring new risks.
To ensure a robust framework for the creation, use and ongoing monitoring of the Groups credit risk measurement models.
To ensure that our balance sheet correctly reflects the value of our assets in accordance with accounting principles.
Organisation and structure Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure and strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Risk Director.
These credit risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses.
Examples include: maximum exposure guidelines to limit the exposures to an individual customer or counterparty country risk policies to specify risk appetite by country and avoid excessive concentration of credit risk in individual countries policies to limit lending to certain industrial sectors underwriting criteria for personal loans and maximum loan-to-value ratios for home loans Within Group Risk, the Credit Risk function provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
This functional team manages the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and runs the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
The principal Committees that review credit risk management, formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are the Group Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee, the Group Retail Credit Risk Management Committee, the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee see page 84 for more details of this Committee.
The Board Audit Committee also reviews the impairment allowance as part of financial reporting.
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 IAS Impairment calculations many of our collective impairment Measurement, reporting and internal ratings estimates incorporate the use of our PD and LGD models.
The principal objective of credit risk measurement is to produce the most accurate possible quantitative assessment of the credit risk to Economic capital EC allocation most EC calculations use the same which the Group is exposed, from the level of individual facilities up through-the-cycle PD and EAD inputs as the regulatory capital RC to the total portfolio.
The process also uses the same underlying LGD model outputs as the RC calculation, but does not incorporate the economic The key building blocks in this quantitative assessment are: downturn adjustment used in RC calculations.
Probability of default PD Risk management information Group and the main business units Exposure in the event of default EAD have for several years received either Key Information Packs or other risk reports focused on EL and EC information to inform senior Severity of loss given default LGD management on issues such as the business performance, Risk Barclays first began to use internal estimates of PD internal ratings in all Appetite and consumption of EC.
its main businesses in the 1990s.
Internally derived estimates for PD, EAD Calculation of internal ratings and LGD have been used since then in all our major risk decision making To calculate probability of default PD, Barclays assesses the credit processes, enabling the application of coherent risk measurement across quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
With the advent of the Basel II accord on banking, Barclays has been Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating decision given permission to use internal rating models as an input in its regulatory on individual large credits, such as internal and external models, rating capital calculations.
In preparation, Barclays has spent considerable time agency ratings, and for wholesale assets market information such as credit developing and upgrading a number of such models across the Group, spreads.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice such as the result moving towards compliance with the Basel II advanced internal ratings from an internal rating model.
As part of this process, all Basel credit risk models are assessed against the Basel II minimum requirements prior to model Barclays recognises the need for two different expressions of PD sign-off to ensure that they are fit to be used for regulatory purposes.
depending on the purpose for which it is used.
For the purposes of calculating regulatory and economic capital, long-run average throughApplications of internal ratings the-cycle PDs are required.
However, for the purposes of pricing and risk The three components described above the probability of default, tendency, PDs should represent the best estimate of probability of default, exposure at default and loss given default are building blocks used in a typically in the next 12 months, dependent on the current position in the variety of applications that measure credit risk across the entire portfolio.
Hence, point-in-time PDs are also required.
Two examples are Risk Tendency RT and Expected Loss EL which When each PD model is constructed, its output is specified as one of are statistical estimates of the average loss for the loan portfolio for point-in-time PIT or through-the-cycle TTC or a hybrid, e. g. a 50:50 a 12-month period, taking into account the portfolios size and risk blend.
Using this distinction between PIT and TTC, the PDs are bucketed characteristics under either current credit conditions RT or average into both PIT Default Grades DGs and TTC bands, adopting techniques credit conditions EL.
As such, RT uses a point-in-time PD while EL uses that are relevant to the models initial output calibration, the industry and a through-the-cycle PD but the basic calculation is the same for both: location of the counterparty and an understanding of the current and PD x EAD x LGD long-term credit conditions.
Two grades are therefore recorded for each client, the DG and the TTC band.
A customer may therefore be rated DG 6 Since through-the-cycle PDs provide a measure of risk that is independent reflecting sectoral performance and TTC band 8 reflecting long-term of the current credit conditions for a particular customer type, they are credit conditions.
more stable than point-in-time ratings.
RT and EL provide insight into the credit quality of the portfolio and assist management in tracking risk This same PIT TTC distinction is applied to agency ratings.
Within changes as the Groups stock of credit exposures evolves in size or risk Barclays, an agency alphabet rating is also expressed in terms of PIT DG profile in the course of business.
It is therefore no longer possible to produce a static mapping of agency letter ratings to either DGs or TTC bands because they As our understanding and experience have developed, we have extended are considered a hybrid of both PIT and TTC.
As such, any mappings would the use and sophistication of internal ratings.
The other main business change over time with movements in the credit cycle.
processes that use internal estimates of PD, LGD and EAD, are as follows: Barclays internal rating system also differentiates between corporate and Credit Grading originally introduced in the early 1990s to provide a retail customers.
common measure of risk across the Group using an eight point rating scale: wholesale credit grading now employs a 21 point scale Barclays For corporate portfolios primarily Barclays Capital, BCB and the Masterscale.
commercial areas of IRCB, the rating system is constructed to ensure that each client receives the same rating independent of the part of the Credit Approval a rating scale is used to set differentiated credit business with which they are dealing.
To achieve this, a model hierarchy is sanctioning levels based upon a PD, so that credit risks are reviewed at adopted which requires users to adopt a specific approach to rating each appropriate levels.
counterparty depending upon the nature of the business and its location.
Risk Appetite measures of expected loss and the potential volatility A range of methods is approved for estimating counterparty PDs.
These of loss are used in the Groups Risk Appetite framework see page 86. include bespoke grading models developed within the Barclays Group Internal Models, vendor models such as MKMV Credit Edge and RiskCalc, Pricing within the corporate mass market portfolios we first and a conversion of external alphabet ratings from either S&P, Moodys developed and used risk adjusted pricing models in the early 1990s or Fitch.
to differentiate risk reward decisions.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 91 Risk management Credit risk management A key element of the Barclays framework is the Masterscale.
This has The ratings process been developed to record differences in the probability of default risk The term internal ratings usually refers to internally calculated estimates at meaningful levels throughout the risk range see table below.
These ratings are combined with EAD and LGD in the range of applications described previously.
The ratings process refers to the use In contrast to corporate businesses, retail areas do not bucket exposures of PD, EAD and LGD across the Group.
In Barclays, the rating process is into generic grades or bands for account management purposes defined by each business.
For central government and banks, institutions although they may be used for reporting purposes.
Instead, accounts are and corporate customers many of the models used in the rating process managed based on internal, product specific segmentations of accounts, are shared across businesses as the models are customer specific.
For for instance, deriving from the cut-offs of the associated models.
The retail exposures, the ratings models are usually unique to the business cut-offs may be in the form of a score, a probability of default, a measure and product type e. g. mortgages, credit cards, and consumer loans.
of forecast loss or a more sophisticated risk reward based measure.
A bespoke model has been built for PD and LGD for Sovereign ratings.
Exposure at default EAD represents the expected level of usage of the For Sovereigns where there is no externally available rating we use an credit facility when default occurs.
At default the customer may not have internally developed PD scorecard.
The scorecard has been developed drawn the loan fully or may already have repaid some of the principal, so using historic data on Sovereigns from an external data provider covering that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
When the a wide range of qualitative and quantitative information.
Our LGD model Group evaluates loans, it takes exposure at default into consideration, is based on resolved recoveries in the public domain, with a significant using its extensive historical experience.
It recognises that customers may element of conservatism added to compensate for the small sample size.
make heavier than average usage of their facilities as they approach default.
For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of default is the To construct ratings for institutions, corporates, specialised lending and estimated cost of replacing contracts with a positive value should purchased corporate receivables and equity exposures, we use external counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
models, rating agencies and internally constructed models.
External models employed include Moodys Credit Edge, rating agency ratings When a customer defaults, some part of the amount outstanding on their and Moodys RiskCalc.
The applicability of each of these approaches to loans is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the actual loss, our customers has been validated by us to internal rating standards.
together with the economic costs associated with the recovery process The data used in validating these primary indicators are representative combine to a figure called the loss given default LGD, which is expressed of the population of the banks actual obligors and exposures and its as a percentage of EAD.
Using historical information, the Group can estimate how much is likely to Internally built PD models are also widely used.
We employ a range of be lost, on average, for various types of loans.
To illustrate, LGD is lower for methods in the construction of these models.
The basic types of PD residential mortgages than for unsecured loans because of the property modelling approaches used are: pledged as collateral.
Structural models The level of LGD depends on: the type of collateral if any : the seniority or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the customer Expert lender operates if a business : and the jurisdiction applicable and work-out Statistical expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on economic conditions that may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for assets, Structural models incorporate in their specification the elements of the whether a businesses can readily be refinanced or the availability of a industry accepted Merton framework to identify the distance to default repayment source for personal customers.
This relies upon the modeller having access to specific time series data or data proxies for the portfolio.
Data samples used to build and validate these models are typically constructed by adding together data sets from internal default observations with externally obtained data sets from commercial providers such as rating agencies and industry gathering consortia.
These models utilise the knowledge of credit experts that have in depth For retail asset classes, Basel II specifies that the definition of default must experience of the specific customer type being modelled.
Where possible, include a trigger based on days past due, with the number of days being the characteristics identified by the expert lenders for use in these models between 90 and 180.
All Barclays advanced internal ratings-based models are linked during the modelling process to the Merton framework.
This are compliant with this, with the majority using 180 days as the trigger.
In linkage ensures that the model is intuitive and that there is some economic all cases LGD models are specified so that they have a definition of default rationale for the default process that is being captured by the model.
aligned to that used in the corresponding PD model.
For any of the portfolios where we have a low number of default The control mechanisms for the rating system observations we adopt specific rules to ensure that the calibration of Each of the business risk teams is responsible for the design, oversight and the model meets the Basel II and FSA criteria for conservatism.
We have performance of the individual credit rating models PD, LGD and EAD developed our own internal policy which describes specific criteria for that comprise the credit rating system for a particular customer within each the use of parametric e. g. Pluto Tasche and non-parametric low default asset class.
Group-wide standards in each of these areas are set by Group portfolio calibration techniques.
Risk and are governed through a series of committees with responsibility Statistical models such as behavioural and application scorecards are for oversight, modelling and credit measurement methodologies.
used for our high volume portfolios such as SME.
The model builds Through their day-to-day activities, key senior management in Group typically incorporate the use of large amounts of internal data, combined Credit Risk, the businesses and the business risk teams have a good with supplemental data from external data suppliers.
Where external data understanding of the operation and design of the rating systems used.
is sourced to validate or enhance internally-held data as part of the risk For example: assessment process or to support model development and BAU operation, a similar approach is adopted towards ensuring data quality to that The respective Business Risk Heads or equivalents are responsible for applied to the management of internal data.
This entails adherence to the supplying a robust rating system.
Groups procurement and supplier management process, including the The Group Risk Director, Credit Risk Director and Wholesale and Retail agreement of specifications and service level agreements.
Credit Risk Directors are required to understand the operation and Typically, modellers do not manipulate external data before using it as design of the rating system used to assess and manage credit risk input to the model estimation or validation procedure.
Changes required in order to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
This extends in the estimation and validation process are documented in the model to the Business CEOs, Business Risk Directors and the Commercial build papers.
For all the above asset classes we use the Basel II definition of default, In addition, Group Model Risk Policy requires that all models be validated utilising the 90 day past due criteria as the final trigger of default.
as part of the model build see page 89.
This is an iterative process that is carried out by the model owner.
Additionally, a formal independent review Our retail banking operations have long and extensive experience of using is carried out after each model is built to check that it is robust, meets all credit models in assessing and managing risk in their businesses and as a internal and external standards and is documented appropriately.
These result models play an integral role in retail approval and customer reviews must be documented and conducted by personnel who are management e. g. limit setting, cross-sell etc.
independent of those involved in the model-building process.
The results Models used include application and behavioural scorecards and or of the review are required to be signed off by an appropriate authority.
These may be used in isolation, in combination In addition to the independent review, post implementation and annual to produce measures of forecast loss or as part of a suite of models that reviews take place for each model.
These reviews are designed to ensure underpin risk reward based decisions.
The score cut-offs will be set at the compliance with policy requirements such as: appropriate level depending on the specific objective, such as ensuring all the accepted accounts meet the minimum required return on EC.
It is integration of models into the business process Barclays philosophy to embed the Basel models as extensively as possible compliance with the model risk policy in the portfolio management process.
This is an ongoing initiative and we expect greater convergence over time.
continuation of a robust governance process around model data inputs and use of outputs In line with Basel II requirements, Barclays will use all available relevant data, including data relating to other Barclays accounts and external Model performance is monitored regularly: frequency of monitoring is agency data.
Barclays does not use pooled data.
monthly for those models that are applicable to higher volume or volatile portfolios, and quarterly for lower volume or less volatile portfolios.
Model Most retail models within Barclays are built in-house, although monitoring can include coverage of the following characteristics: utility, occasionally external consultants will be contracted to build models on stability, efficiency, accuracy, portfolio and data.
Whilst most models are statistically derived, some expert lender models are used, particularly where data limitations Model owners set performance ranges and define appropriate actions preclude a more sophisticated approach.
For mortgage originations for their models.
As part of the regular monitoring, the performance of Barclays use a third party scorecard Omniscore, supported by a series the models is compared with these operational ranges.
If breaches occur of policy rules, to arrive at a lending decision.
the model owner reports these to the approval body appropriate for the materiality of the model.
The model approver is responsible for ensuring completion of the defined action, which may ultimately be a complete rebuild of the model.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 93 Risk Tendency by business m Risk management Credit risk management Risk tendency Credit risk mitigation In 2007, Risk Tendency increased 4% 95m to 2,355m 2006: 2,260m, The Group uses a wide variety of techniques to reduce credit risk on its significantly less than the 23% growth in the Groups loans and advances lending.
The most basic of these is performing an assessment of the balances.
This relatively small rise in Risk Tendency reflected, in particular, ability of a borrower to service the proposed level of borrowing without the improving risk profile of the UK unsecured loan book.
In addition, the Group commonly obtains security for the funds influencing Risk Tendency included: methodology changes in Barclaycard, advanced, such as in the case of a retail or commercial mortgage, a reverse UK Retail Banking and International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa: repurchase agreement, or a commercial loan with a floating charge over the sale of the Monument portfolio: and a maturing credit risk profile in book debts and inventories.
The Group ensures that the collateral held is the international card portfolios.
sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly valued.
Various forms of collateral are held and commonly include cash in major UK Retail Banking Risk Tendency decreased 30m to 470m 2006: 500m.
currencies: fixed income products including government bonds: Letters This reflected an improvement in the credit risk profile in the UK unsecured of Credit: property, including residential and commercial: and other consumer lending portfolios, partially offset by the impact of methodology fixed assets.
For further discussion concerning credit risk mitigation, changes and asset growth.
Risk Tendency in Barclays Commercial Bank increased 15m to 305m The Group actively manages its credit exposures and when weaknesses 2006: 290m.
This reflected some growth in loan balances offset by in exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of improvements in the credit risk profile.
exposures action is taken to mitigate the risks.
These include steps to Barclaycard Risk Tendency decreased 190m to 945m 2006: 1,135m.
reduce the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, This reflected improvement in the credit risk profile of UK cards, the sale clients or counterparties if appropriate, the use of credit derivatives and, of part of the Monument portfolio and methodology changes in UK cards, sometimes, the sale of the loan assets.
Credit derivatives may also be partially offset by asset growth in the international portfolios.
traded for profit: details of these activities may be found on page 105 and Note 14 to the accounts.
Risk Tendency at International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa increased 145m to 220m 2006: 75m, reflecting an increase The Group also uses various forms of specialised legal agreements to to the risk profile and balance sheet growth in Emerging Markets and reduce risk, including netting agreements which permit it to offset Western Europe.
positive and negative balances with customers in certain circumstances to minimise the exposure at default, financial guarantees, and the use In International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa, the increase of of covenants in commercial lending agreements.
110m in Risk Tendency to 255m 2006: 145m included a change to the methodology following the introduction of Basel compliant, PD, EAD Barclays manages the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted and LGD models.
Excluding this change, Risk Tendency increased 90m, credit risk concentrations.
A concentration of credit risk exists when a reflecting a weakening of retail credit conditions in South Africa after a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have series of interest rate rises in 2006 and 2007 and balance sheet growth.
similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic Risk Tendency in Barclays Capital increased 45m to 140m 2006: 95m or other conditions.
primarily due to drawn leveraged loan positions.
The drawn liquidity facilities on ABS CDO Super Senior positions are classified as credit risk Credit risk mitigation to address concentrations takes several dimensions.
loans and therefore no Risk Tendency is calculated on them.
Maximum exposure guidelines are in place relating to the exposures to any individual counterparty.
These permit higher exposures to highly rated Since Risk Tendency and impairment allowances are calculated for borrowers than to lower rated borrowers.
They also distinguish between different parts of the portfolio, for different purposes and on different types of counterparty, for example, between sovereign governments, bases, Risk Tendency does not predict loan impairment.
Excesses are considered individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed regularly, and are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 06 07 UK Retail Barclays Barclays Barclays International International Head office Barclaycard b Banking Retail & Commercial Capital Wealth Retail & functions Bank Commercial Commercial and other a Banking Banking operations Absa ex Absa Notes a Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued businesses b Excludes ABS CDO Super Senior positions as these are classified as credit risk loans in transition.
and therefore no Risk Tendency is calculated on them.
94 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 500 470 290 305 1,135 945 95 140 10 10 145 255 75 220 10 10 Business review 1 The Risk Oversight Committee has delegated and apportioned A further mitigant against undesirable concentration of risk is the responsibility for risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk mandate and scale framework described on page 86.
Mandate and scale Management Committees.
limits, which can also be set at Group level to reflect overall Risk Appetite, can relate either to the stock of current exposures in the relevant portfolio The Retail Credit Risk Management Committee RCRMC oversees or to the flow of new exposures into that portfolio.
Typical limits include exposures, which comprise unsecured personal lending including small the caps on UK commercial investment property lending, the proportion businesses, mortgages and credit cards.
The RCRMC monitors the risk of lending with maturity in excess of seven years and the proportion of profile and performance of the retail portfolios by receipt of key risk new mortgage business that is buy-to-let.
measures and indicators at an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating Concentrations of credit exposure described in this credit risk management actions taken to address performance are appropriate and timely.
Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio composition at both an overall stock and section and the following statistical section are not proportionally related to credit loss.
Some segments of the Groups portfolio have and are expected new flow level.
to have proportionally higher credit charges in relation to the exposure The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee WCRMC oversees than others.
Moreover, the volatility of credit loss is different in different wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks and other parts of the portfolio.
Thus, comparatively large credit impairment charges financial institutions.
The WCRMC monitors exposure by country, industry could arise in parts of the portfolio not mentioned here.
sector, individual large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
Securitisations In the course of its business, Barclays undertakes securitisations of its Country concentrations are addressed through the country risk policy, own originated assets as well as the securitisation of third party assets which specifies Risk Appetite by country and avoids excessive via sponsored conduit vehicles and shelf programmes.
concentrations of credits in individual countries.
Country risk grades are assigned to all countries where the Group has, or is likely to have, exposure Barclays securitises its own originated assets in order to remove risk from and are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate.
the Groups credit position, to obtain regulatory capital relief, and to obtain term liquidity for the Group balance sheet.
Country grades, which are derived from long-term sovereign foreign For these transactions Barclays adopts the following roles in the currency ratings, range from 1 lowest probability of default to 21 highest probability of default.
A ceiling is applied where a country is securitisation process: graded 12 or worse so that the counterparty cannot receive a higher risk Originator of securitised assets grading than the country, unless some form of protection is available Executor of securitisation trades including bond marketing and in the event of a cross-border event, such as a significant portion of a counterpartys assets or income being held or generated in hard currency.
syndication To manage exposure to country risk, the Group uses two country limits: Provider of securitisation trade servicing, including data management, the Prudential Guideline and the Country Guideline.
The Prudential investor payments and reporting Guideline is identified through the strict mapping of a country grade to Barclays also acts as an administrator and manager of multi-seller conduits derive a model-driven acceptable level of loss given default.
The Country through which interests in  assets are securitised Guideline for all graded countries is set by the Group Credit Committee and funded via the issuance of asset backed commercial paper.
GCC based on the Prudential Guideline and the internal appetite for country risk.
The Country Guideline may therefore be above or below In relation to such conduit activity, Barclays may also provide all or a the Prudential Guideline.
portion of the backstop liquidity to the commercial paper, programmewide credit enhancement and, as appropriate, interest rate and foreign Country risk is managed through the application of Country Loss Given currency hedging facilities.
All cross-border or domestic foreign currency transactions incur CLGD from the Country Guideline agreed at GCC.
The level of CLGD RWAs reported for securitised assets as at December 2007 are calculated in line with rules set out in IPRU BANK as well as any individual guidance incurred by a counterparty transaction will largely depend on three main factors: the country severity, the product severity and counterparty grade.
received from the FSA as at the end of this period.
CLGD is incurred in the country of direct risk, defined as where the As of 1st January 2008, Barclays calculates securitisation RWAs using majority of operating assets are held.
This may differ from the country the ratings based approach and or the supervisory formula method as of incorporation.
However, where transactions are secured with collateral, per the FSAs revised rules, which implement the Basel Accord and Capital the country risk can be transferred from the country of the borrower to Requirements Directive.
the country of the collateral provider.
This is only permitted where the Further information about securitisation activities and accounting collateral covers the borrowing and is not expected to decrease over time.
The Groups accounting policies, including Country Managers are in place for all countries where the Group has those relevant to securitisation activities policies 4 and 10, are on exposure and they, under the direction of GCC, have responsibility for pages 165 and 168. allocating country risk to individual transactions.
The total allocation of Barclays employs External Credit Assessment Institutions to provide country limits is monitored on a daily basis by Group Credit Risk, as headed ratings for its asset backed securities.
Their use is dependant on the by the Group Credit Risk Director.
Discretions exist to increase the Country transaction or asset class involved.
For existing transactions, we employ Guideline above the level agreed by GCC where the Country Guideline is Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch for securitisations of corporate, below the Prudential Guideline.
All requests to increase the Country residential mortgage and other retail exposures and Standard & Poors Guideline in line with individual discretions must be submitted to and and Moodys only for securitisations of small and medium-sized entity applied centrally through Group Credit Risk.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 95 Risk management Credit risk management Measuring exposures and concentrations Monitoring of loans and advances Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit As the granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income risk to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of and its most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources credit risk through loans to banks, loan commitments, contingent liabilities to gaining a clear and accurate understanding of credit risk across the and debt securities: see page 60.
The value of outstanding loans and business and ensuring that its balance sheet correctly reflects the value advances balances, their risk profile, and potential concentrations within of the assets in accordance with accounting principles.
This process can them can therefore have a considerable influence on the level of credit risk be broken down into the following stages: in the Group.
Measuring exposures and concentrations As at 31st December 2007, outstanding loans and advances to customers Monitoring weakness in exposures and banks were valued at 389bn 2006: 317bn, of which 349bn 2006: 286bn was granted to personal or corporate customers see Identifying potential problem loans and credit risk loans figure 1.
Loans and advances were well distributed across the retail and collectively known as potential credit risk loans or PCRLs wholesale portfolios.
Raising allowances for impaired loans Loans and advances were well spread across industry classifications Writing off assets when the whole or part of a debt is considered figure 2.
Excluding Financial Services, Barclays largest sectoral exposures irrecoverable are to home loans, other personal and business and other services.
These categories are generally comprised of small loans, have low volatility of credit risk outcomes, and are intrinsically highly diversified.
Balances are also diversified across a number of geographical regions figure 3, based on location of customers.
The majority of Barclays exposure is to the UK, which includes secured home loans exposure, followed by the United States, Africa and the rest of the European Union.
2: Loans and advances to customers by industry % 2007 2006 m m Home loans Retail businesses Financial services Banks Customers 164,062 139,350 Other personal Total retail businesses 164,062 139,350 Business and other services Wholesale businesses Wholesale and retail trade, Banks 40,123 30,930 distribution and leisure Customers 185,105 146,281 Property Total wholesale businesses 225,228 177,211 Manufacturing Loans and advances 389,290 316,561 Finance lease receivables Energy and water Transport Construction Postal and Communication Agriculture, forestry and fishing 06 Government 07 02 5 10 15025 30354045 Fig.
4: Analysis of loans-to-value ratios of mortgages in the UK home Fig.
3: Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers % loan portfolio at 31st December 2007 % At most recent credit decision 06 1 UK 2 Other European 07 Union 5 5 3 United States 4 4 4 Africa 3 3 5 Rest of the World 1 1 2 2 06 07 70% 70-80% 80-90% 90% 96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Percentage of the mortgage portfolio 67 69 18 17 10 9 5 5 Business review 1 Barclays risk is therefore spread across a large number of industries and Barclays also actively monitors the risk profile of its loans and advances customers and in the case of home loans, for example, well secured.
to customers, with a view to the early detection of any concentrations in These classifications have been prepared at the level of the borrowing higher risk segments.
Figure 5 depicts Barclays wholesale loan profile by entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is existing risk grade see page 82 for a description of the rating system.
classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even through The majority of Barclays exposure is to the higher quality names with the parents predominant sphere of activity may be in a different industry.
just under 70% of exposure to customers with a DG of 10 or better.
It is important to note that Barclays prices loans to risk.
Thus, higher risk loans UK exposure to home loans accounts for just over 60 per cent of the will usually have higher interest rates or fees or both.
The profitability of a Groups total home loans exposure.
The loan-to-value ratios LTV on higher risk portfolio may, therefore, equal or exceed that of a lower-risk the Groups UK home loan portfolio are shown in figure 4.
in the chart are those which applied at the last credit decision on each loan, i. e. when the customer last requested an increase in the limit or, Barclays also actively monitors exposure and concentrations to subif there has been no increase, at inception of the loan.
Business flows investment grade countries see country risk policy, page 81.
Details new business versus loans redeemed have not materially changed of the 15 largest sub-investment grade countries, by limit, are shown the risk profile of the portfolio.
The impact of house price inflation will result in a reduction in LTV ratios Contractual maturity represents a further area of potential concentration.
within the mortgage book on a current valuation basis.
On this basis, LTV The analysis shown in figure 7 indicates that just over 40% of loans to on the residential mortgage book averaged 33% at the end of 2007 customers have a maturity of more than five years: the majority of this 2006: 34%.
This ratio is a point-in-time analysis of the stock with LTV segment comprises secured home loans.
updated to current house prices by reference to an external price index and as a result may be influenced by external market conditions as well as changes in the stock of loans.
5: Loans and advances, balances and limits to wholesale customers by internal risk rating % Fig.
6: Credit exposure to sub-investment grade countries m Loan balances by internal rating Loan limits by internal rating Egypt % of Total % of Total Brazil 1 2 Kenya 3 Indonesia 4 5 Turkey 6 Ghana 7 8 Tanzania 9 Zambia 10 11 Morocco 12 Bolivia 13 14 Colombia 15 Ukraine 16 17 Uganda 18 Philippines 19 06 20 Peru 07 21 0 5 10 15 0 5 10 15 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Fig.
7: Maturity analysis of loans and advances to customers % 1 On demand 2 Not more than three months 1 1 3 Over three 5 2 5 2 months but not more than 3 3 4 4 one year 4 Over one year but not more than five years 06 07 5 Over five years Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 97 Improving credit quality Risk management Credit risk management Monitoring weaknesses in exposures Within the personal portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
Corporate accounts that assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on graded to be monitored on a portfolio basis.
This applies in parts of UK Retail early warning or watch lists comprising three categories of increasing Banking, Barclays Wealth, International Retail and Commercial Banking concern.
These are updated monthly and circulated to the relevant risk and Barclaycard.
The approach is consistent with the Groups policy of control points.
Once listing has taken place, exposure is very carefully raising a collective impairment allowance as soon as objective evidence monitored and, where appropriate, exposure reductions are effected.
Should an account become impaired, it will normally, but not necessarily, Potential credit risk loans have passed through all three categories, which reflect the need for everIf the credit quality of a loan on an early warning or watch list deteriorates increasing caution and control.
to the highest category, consideration is given to including it within the Where an obligors financial health gives grounds for concern, it is Potential Problem Loan PPL list.
PPLs are loans where payment of immediately placed into the appropriate category.
All obligors, regardless principal and interest is up to date but where serious doubt exists as to the of financial health, are subject to a full review of all facilities on, at least, ability of the borrowers to continue to comply with repayment terms in the an annual basis.
More frequent interim reviews may be undertaken near future.
Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move to Within Local Business, accounts that are deemed to have a heightened the Credit Risk Loan CRL category.
Events that would trigger the transfer level of risk, or that exhibit some unsatisfactory features which could affect of a loan from the PPL to the CRL category could include a missed viability in the short medium term, are transferred to a separate Caution payment or a breach of covenant.
CRLs comprise three classes of loans: stream.
Accounts on the Caution stream are reviewed on at least a Impaired loans comprise loans where individual impairment allowance quarterly basis at which time consideration is given to continuing with has been raised and also include loans which are fully collateralised or the agreed strategy, returning the customer to a lower risk refer stream, where indebtedness has already been written down to the expected or instigating recovery exit action.
The impaired loan category may include loans, which, while impaired, are still performing.
CRL and PPL balances by geography Fig.
8: CRLs balances by geography m Fig.
9: PPLs balances by geography m Non-UK Non-UK UK UK b a c a b c 03 04 05 06 07 03 04 05 06 07 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS CRLs and PPLs as a percentage of Loans and Advances Fig.
10: CRLs Loans and Advances Ratio % Fig.
11: PPLs Loans and Advances Ratio % a b c a b c 03 05 06 07 03 05 06 07 04 04 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS Notes a In 2003, credit risk loans and potential problem loans were disclosed based on c From 1st January 2005, the application of IAS 39 required interest to be recognised on the location of the booking office.
In 2004-2007 they were disclosed by location the remaining balance of an impaired financial asset or group of financial assets at the of customers.
effective interest rate for that asset.
As a result, interest is credited to the income statement in relation to impaired loans, therefore these loans technically are not b Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective classified as non-accrual.
In 2005, the Group replaced the non-accrual category with from 1st January 2005. one termed impaired loans.
The SEC requires loans to be classified, where applicable, as non-accrual, accruing past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructurings and potential problem loans.
The significant that are 90 days or more past due as to principal or interest where there increase to non-UK CRL and PPL balances is principally due to the is no expectation of ultimate write-off whether in part or full of the inclusion of US-located ABS CDO Super Senior positions and other principal owed.
Impairment allowance will be raised against these loans credit market exposures.
if the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate is Figures 12 and 13 show impairment allowances as a percentage of less than the carrying value.
Including the drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions, The category impaired and restructured loans comprises loans not allowance coverage of CRLs and PCRLs decreased to 39.1% 31st December included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the 2006: 65.6% and 33.0% 31st December 2006: 57.0%, respectively.
debtors financial difficulties, a concession has been granted to the These movements reflect the fact that allowance coverage of ABS CDO debtor that it would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession Super Senior credit risk loans was low relative to allowance coverage of results in the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest other credit risk loans since substantial protection against loss is also rate being less than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance provided by subordination and hedges.
On ABS CDO Super Senior will be raised.
exposures, the combination of subordination, hedges and write-downs provided protection against loss levels to 72% on US sub-prime collateral The term Credit Risk Loans has replaced the term Non-Performing Loans as at 31st December 2007.
NPLs as the collective term for the total of these three classes since it recognises the fact that the impaired loan category may include loans, Figures 14 and 15 show allowance coverage of CRLs and PCRLs which, while impaired, are still performing.
This category includes drawn excluding the drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions decreased to 55.6% ABS CDO Super Senior positions.
The decrease in these ratios reflected a change in the mix of Potential Credit Risk Loans PCRLs comprise potential problem loans CRLs and PCRLs.
Unsecured retail exposures, where the recovery outlook PPLs and credit risk loans CRLs.
Figures 8 and 9 show CRL and PPL is low, decreased as a proportion of the total as the collections and balances by geography.
The amounts are shown before deduction of underwriting processes were improved.
Secured retail and wholesale value of security held, impairment allowances from 2005 onwards and corporate exposures, where the recovery outlook is relatively high, and provisions or interest suspense 2004 and earlier, all of which might increased as a proportion of PCRLs.
12: Impairment provisions coverage of CRLs % Fig.
13: Impairment provisions coverage of PCRLs % including drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions including drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions a b a b 03 05 06 07 03 05 06 07 04 04 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS Fig.
14: Impairment provisions coverage of CRLs % Fig.
15: Impairment provisions coverage of PCRLs % excluding drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions excluding drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions a b a b 03 04 05 06 07 03 04 05 06 07 UK GAAP IFRS UK GAAP IFRS Notes a In 2003, credit risk loans and potential problem loans were disclosed based on the location of the booking office.
In 2004-2007 they were disclosed by location of customers.
b Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 99 71.5 71.5 66.9 66.9 66.2 66.2 65.6 65.6 55.6 39.1 54.6 54.6 56.0 56.0 56.2 56.2 57.0 57.0 49.0 33.0 Risk management Credit risk management Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the assets Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment allowances probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
identified as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to default within a specified period.
This is calculated on the present value Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where there is of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events effective interest rate.
that have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events have had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual or portfolio of financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is experience and are reviewed on an annual basis.
This methodology ensures measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the present that the Group only captures the loss incurred at the balance sheet date.
value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount is less than the by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment allowances discounted cash flows, then no further allowance is necessary.
based on statistical analysis and management judgement.
Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically assessed significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises homogenous against actual losses.
assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
As one of the controls of ensuring that adequate impairment allowances In terms of individual assessment, the trigger point for impairment is are held, movements in impairment allowances to individual names above formal classification of an account as exhibiting serious financial problems 10m are presented to the Group Credit Committee for agreement.
and where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Two key inputs to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and The Group Credit Risk Impairment Committee GCRIC, on a semi-annual collateral and the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all basis, obtains assurance on behalf of the Group that all businesses are attendant costs.
This method applies in the corporate portfolios Barclays recognising impairment in their portfolios accurately and promptly in their Commercial Bank, Barclays Capital and certain areas within International recommendations and in accordance with policy, accounting standards Retail and Commercial Banking and Barclaycard.
For collective assessment, the trigger point for impairment is the missing GCRIC exercises the authority of the Barclays Risk Director, as delegated of a contractual payment.
The impairment calculation is based on a rollby the Chief Executive, and is chaired by Barclays Credit Risk Director.
rate approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the initial GCRIC reviews the movements to impairment in the businesses, including delinquency to default are derived from statistical probabilities based on those already agreed at Group Credit Committee, Potential Credit Risk experience.
Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are Loans and Risk Tendency.
calculated using a weighted average for the relevant portfolio.
This method applies to parts of International Retail and Commercial Banking, These committees are supported by a number of Group Policies including: Barclaycard and UK Banking and is consistent with Barclays policy of Group Retail Impairment and Provisioning Policy: Group Wholesale raising an allowance as soon as impairment is identified.
Impairment and Provisioning Policy: and, Group Model Policy.
Unidentified impairment allowances, albeit significantly lower in GCRIC makes twice-yearly recommendations to the Board Audit amount than those reported above, are also raised to cover losses which Committee on the adequacy of Group impairment allowances.
are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in customer Impairment allowances are reviewed relative to the risk in the portfolio, exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, have not been business and economic trends, current policies and methodologies and specifically reported.
our position against peer banks.
17: Impairment provisions charges over five years m Fig.
16: Impairment charges for bad and doubtful debts 2007 2006 2005 m m m UK Banking 849 887 671 Barclaycard 838 1,067 753 International Retail and Commercial Banking 252 167 33 Barclays Capital 846 42 111 Barclays Global Investors Barclays Wealth 7 22 Head office functions and other operations 3 11 1 Total impairment charges 2,795 2,154 1,571 a 03 04 05 06 07 UK GAAP IFRS Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 1,347 1,093 1,571 2,154 2,795 Business review 1 GCRIC has delegated the detailed review of loan impairment in the Wholesale and corporate impairment charges on loans and advances businesses to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management increased 436m to 701m 2006: 265m.
impairment charges as a percentage of period-end total loans and advances increased to 0.31% 2006: 0.15% : total loans and advances In 2007, total impairment charges on loans and advances and other grew by 27% to 225,228m 2006: 177,211m.
credit provisions increased 30% 641m to 2,795m 2006: 2,154m reflecting charges of 782m against ABS CDO Super Senior and other Barclays Capital impairment charges and other credit provisions of 846m credit market positions.
included a charge of 782m against ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market exposure and 58m relating to drawn leveraged finance positions.
Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions as a percentage of Group total loans and advances rose to 0.71% The impairment charge in Barclays Commercial Bank increased by 2006: 0.65% : total loans and advances grew by 23% to 389,290m 38m 15% to 290m 2006: 252m, primarily due to higher gross 2006: 316,561m.
impairment charges in Larger Business, partially offset by a lower charge in Medium Business due to a tightening of the lending criteria.
Retail impairment charges on loans and advances fell 11% 204m to 1,605m 2006: 1,809m.
Retail impairment charges as a percentage of Writing-off of assets period-end total loans and advances reduced to 0.98% 2006: 1.30% : total After an advance has been identified as impaired and is subject to an retail loans and advances rose by 18% to 164,062m 2006: 139,350m.
impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write-off will occur, Barclaycard impairment charges improved 229m 21% to 838 2006: when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered 1,067m reflecting reduce flows into delinquency, lower levels of arrears irrecoverable.
and lower charge-offs in UK Cards.
We made changes to our impairment methodologies to standardise our approach and in anticipation of Basel II.
The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of The net positive impact of these changes in methodology was offset by subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by the increase in impairment charges in Barclaycard International and a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other secured consumer lending.
formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In any event, Impairment charges in UK Retail Bank decreased by 76m 12% to the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly to ensure that 559m 2006: 635m, reflecting lower charges in unsecured Consumer irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly Lending and Local Business driven by improved collection processes, manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
reduced flows into delinquency, lower trends of arrears and stable chargeoffs.
In UK Home Finance, asset quality remained strong and mortgage Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures have charges remained negligible.
Mortgage delinquencies as a percentage been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
of outstandings remained stable and amounts charged-off were low.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written back Impairment charges in International Retail and Commercial Banking and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment charge excluding Absa rose by 38m 93% to 79m 2006: 41m reflecting in the income statement.
very strong balance sheet growth in 2006 and 2007 and the impact of Total write-offs of impaired financial assets decreased by 211m to 1,963m lower releases in 2007.
Arrears in some of International Retail and Commercial Banking Absas key retail portfolios deteriorated in 2007, driven by interest rate increases in 2006 and 2007 resulting in pressure on collections.
18: Total write-offs of impaired financial assets m a 03 04 05 06 07 UK GAAP IFRS Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 101 1,474 1,582 1,587 2,174 1,963 Risk management Market risk management Market risk management Organisation and structure The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, activities.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the market risk or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely control framework and, under delegated authority from the Risk Director, affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Risk prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The main Director, the Market Risk Director, the Finance Director and the market risk arises from trading activities.
Barclays is also appropriate Business Risk Directors.
exposed to interest rate risk in the banking book and the The Head of each business, assisted by the business risk management pension fund.
team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities.
Each Barclays market risk objectives are to: business is responsible for the identification, measurement, management, control and reporting of market risk as outlined in the Barclays Market Risk Understand and control market risk by robust Control Framework.
Oversight and support is provided to the business by measurement and the setting of position limits.
the Market Risk Director, assisted by the central market risk team.
The Market Risk Committee reviews, approves, and makes recommendations Facilitate business growth within a controlled concerning the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, and transparent risk management framework.
The Committee is held monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk Director.
Attendees include the Risk Director, respective Ensure traded market risk resides primarily business risk managers and senior managers from the central market risk team.
In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for Minimise non-traded market risk.
implementing the market risk control framework.
Day to day responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates independently of the trading areas.
Daily market risk reports are produced for the main Barclays Capital business areas covering the different risk categories including interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk presentation is produced fortnightly and discussed at the Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review meeting.
The attendees at this meeting include senior managers from Barclays Capital and the central market risk team.
Outside Barclays Capital, Global Retail and Commercial Banking is responsible for the non-structural interest rate risk in the banking book and Group Treasury is responsible for structural risk interest rate and FX.
The chart below right gives an overview of the business control structure.
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 To complement DVaR, stress testing is performed and there is a large set Traded market risk of non-DVaR limits including foreign exchange concentration limits and Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This interest rate delta limits.
includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, Barclays manages client and DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and market activities together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk occurs in both consequently the model is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed the trading book and the banking book as defined for regulatory purposes.
is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when trading losses exceed the corresponding DVaR estimate.
In anticipation of future customer demand, Barclays maintains access to market liquidity by quoting bid and offer prices with other market makers On the basis of DVaR estimated to a 98% confidence level, on average and carries an inventory of capital market and treasury instruments, there would be five days each year when trading losses would be expected including a broad range of cash, securities and derivatives.
Derivatives to exceed DVaR and would therefore be reflected as back-testing exceptions.
entered into for trading purposes include swaps, forward rate agreements, For Barclays Capitals trading book, there were seven instances of a daily futures, credit derivatives, options and combinations of these instruments.
trading loss exceeding the corresponding 98% back-testing DVaR.
For a description of the nature of derivative instruments, see page 105.
These back-testing exceptions in 2007 reflected the increased volatility across a number of markets in which Barclays Capital operates.
There Traded market risk measurement were no instances of back-testing exceptions on a similar basis in 2006.
The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market risk include Daily Value at Risk and Stress Testing.
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
The three main types of stress test are: Daily Value at Risk DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss which might arise from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were risk factor: historical stress moves are applied to each of the risk to be held unchanged for one business day, measured to a confidence categories which include interest rate, credit spread, commodity, level of 98%.
Daily losses exceeding the DVaR figure are likely to occur, equity and foreign exchange rate on average, twice in every 100 business days.
emerging market contagion: historical stress moves combined with DVaR uses the historical simulation method with a historic sample of two contagion factors are applied to the emerging markets portfolio years.
The credit spread calculation takes into account specific risks scenario: stress scenarios are applied to the trading book associated with different business names.
Stress results are produced at least fortnightly and are included in the There are a number of considerations that should be taken into account Traded Products Risk Review meeting information pack.
If a potential when reviewing DVaR numbers.
These are: stress loss exceeds the corresponding trigger limit, the positions captured historical simulation assumes that the past is a good representation of by the stress test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays Capital market the future which may not always be the case.
risk and the respective Barclays Capital Business Head s. The minutes of the discussion, including the merits of the position and the appropriate the assumed one day time horizon will not fully capture the market risk course of action, are then sent to the Market Risk Director for review.
of positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day.
DVaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the 98th percentile.
and reviewed by Risk type... managed by market risk and...
Traded Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review Meeting Non-traded Global Retail and Asset and Liability Committees Commercial Banking Banking book interest rate risk New product process team FX risk Supervisory visits from a central risk team Group Treasury Banking book interest rate risk Treasury Committee FX risk Treasury Hedge Committee Market Risk Director Pension Fund Trustees and Investment Committee Pension risk Barclays Central Functions Barclays Pensions Board Investment risk BGI BGI Global Risk and Compliance Committee Asset management risk BGI Global Risk Investment Committee Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 103 Risk management Market risk management Analysis of traded market risk exposures Stress testing is carried out by the business centres and is reviewed by senior The analysis of traded market risk exposures is given in Note 46. management and business-level asset and liability committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the business and typically incorporates scenario Analysis of trading revenue analysis and historical stress movements applied to respective portfolios.
The histograms show the distribution of daily trading revenue for Barclays Analysis of interest rate risk in the banking book exposures Capital in 2007 and 2006.
Revenue includes net trading income, net interest income and net fees and commissions relating to primary trading.
The analysis of interest rate risk in the banking book is given in Note 46.
The average daily revenue in 2007 was 26.2m 2006: 22.0m and there were 224 positive revenue days out of 253 2006: 243 out of 252.
Other market risks The number of negative revenue days increased in 2007 largely as a result Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for of volatile markets in the second half of the year.
The number of large past and current employees.
The ability of the Pension Fund to meet the positive revenue days also increased but these were spread across the year.
projected pension payments is maintained through investments and regular Bank contributions.
Pension risk arises because: the estimated Interest rate risk in the banking book market value of the pension fund assets might decline: or their investment Interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale returns might reduce: or the estimated value of the pension liabilities non-traded banking products and services, as well as structural might increase.
In these circumstances, Barclays could be required or exposures within Barclays balance sheet.
might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are in Note 30.
The management approach of Barclays with respect to interest rate risk is to transfer the risk from the businesses either into local treasuries or to Investment risk is the risk of financial volatility arising from changes in the Group Treasury using an internal transfer price or interest rate swap.
The market value of investments, principally occurring in Barclays insurance methodology used to transfer this risk depends on whether the product companies.
These investments may comprise various liquid instruments, contains yield curve risk, basis risk or customer optionality.
Limits exist to such as cash, bonds and listed equities, to cover future insurance liability ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
flows, and may therefore give rise to a mismatch between the revaluation of assets and liabilities.
It is Barclays policy to hedge such exposures in line Once each businesss risk has been transferred, the treasuries manage with a defined risk appetite.
any residual yield curve and basis risks subject to modest risk limits and other controls.
Market risk is also taken in overseas treasuries, within Barclays policy is for foreign exchange trading risk to be concentrated these limits, to support and facilitate customer activity.
and managed in Barclays Capital.
Some transaction foreign exchange risk exposure arises within the local treasury operations in Global Retail Risk measurement and Commercial Banking to support and facilitate client activity.
This is The techniques used to measure and control interest rate risk in the minimised in accordance with modest risk limits and was not material banking book include Annual Earnings at Risk, Daily Value at Risk and as at end 2007.
Other non-Barclays Capital foreign exchange exposure Stress Testing.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest Asset management structural market risk arises where the fee and income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated as the difference commission income earned by asset management products and between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the businesses is affected by a change in market levels, primarily through lowest estimated income following a 50 basis points increase or decrease the link between income and the value of assets under management.
Where support agreements exist, the Group is exposed to the Outside Barclays Capital, Barclays uses a simplified approach to calculate performance of the underlying asset.
This exposure arises mainly within DVaR.
It is used as a complementary tool to AEaR.
Both AEaR and DVaR are Barclays Global Investors, but also in Global Retail and Commercial supplemented by stress testing and a range of non-DVaR limits.
It is Barclays policy that businesses monitor and report this risk against a defined risk appetite and regularly assess potential hedging strategies.
Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2007 m Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2006 m 0 35 to 40 to 45 0 35 to 40 to 45 0 to 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 to 0 to 5 to 10 to 15 to 20 to 25 to 30 to 40 45 40 45 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Number of days 29 7 20 14 18 19 33 37 21 20 35 Number of days 8 10 23 30 49 42 31 24 12 10 13 Business review Risk management 1 Derivatives Interest rate derivatives Derivatives The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and swaptions.
products are an integral part of the Groups trading activities.
These Included in this product category are transactions that include instruments are also used to manage the Groups own exposure to combinations of these features.
fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and commodity and equity prices as part of its asset and liability management activities.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic payments based Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the upon a notional principal amount and the interest rates defined in the market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, contract.
Certain agreements combine interest rate and foreign currency commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk swap transactions, which may or may not include the exchange of management are outlined in the market risk management section on principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which pages 102 to 104. both parties exchange interest payments based on floating rates, where The policies for derivatives that are used to manage the Groups own the floating rates are based upon different underlying reference indices.
exposure to interest and exchange rate fluctuations are outlined in the In a forward rate agreement, two parties agree a future settlement of the asset and liability market risk section on page 239. difference between an agreed rate and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal amount.
The settlement, which generally occurs at the Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from one or start of the contract period, is the discounted present value of the more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract.
payment that would otherwise be made at the end of that period.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, options and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Groups net Credit derivatives interest income, net trading income, net fee and commission income and The Groups principal credit derivative-related contracts include derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are not credit default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an recorded on the balance sheet.
arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
The Group participates both in exchange traded and over the counter derivatives markets.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make Exchange traded derivatives payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the holders look A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection for ultimate settlement.
receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and change in the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives a Over the counter traded derivatives predetermined amount.
The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
Equity derivatives The Groups principal equity-related contracts are equity and stock index These instruments range from commoditised transactions in swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options listed derivative markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to on an exchange.
An equity swap is an agreement between two parties the requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal amount, standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other side paying agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The existence based on the actual return of the stock or stock index.
An equity option of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection provides the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to in situations where a counterparty is in default.
purchase or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks or stock index Foreign exchange derivatives at a specified price or level on or before a specified date.
The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign Commodity derivatives exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Forward The Groups principal commodity-related derivative contracts are swaps, foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specified options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities transacted are base quantity of foreign currency, usually on a specified future date at an metals, precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power and natural gas.
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or notional exchange, of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a commitment to exchange interest periodically until the principal amounts are re-exchanged on a future date.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives a premium at the start of the option period.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 105 Risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities Fair value of the commodity derivative contracts Disclosures about certain trading activities The tables below analyse the overall fair value of the commodity derivative including non-exchange traded commodity contracts contracts by movement over time and maturity.
As at 31st December 2007 The Group provides a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, the fair value of the commodity derivative contracts reflects a gross positive precious metals, oil, power, natural gas, coal, freight, emission credits, fair value of 23,571m 2006: 17,501m and a gross negative value of structured products and other related commodities.
continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of new products and markets.
Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange traded 2007 2006 derivatives, including swaps, options, forwards and futures and enters m m into physically settled contracts in base metals, power and natural gas, Fair value of contracts outstanding with 2007 seeing the addition of oil and related products to this portfolio.
at the beginning of the period 1,561 527 Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported under the Trading Portfolio in Note 12.
Contracts realised or otherwise settled during the period 764 379 Fair value measurement Fair value of new contracts entered into The fair values of physical and derivative positions are primarily determined during the period 243 808 through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange Other changes in fair values 228 153 prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
Further information on fair value measurement of financial instruments can be found in Note 49.
Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period 812 1,561 Credit risk Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to Note 47 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk management Maturity analysis of commodity derivative fair value and the credit quality of derivative assets.
2007 2006 m m Not more than one year 279 902 Over one year but not more than five years 773 327 Over five years 318 332 Total 812 1,561 106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review Risk management 1 Liquidity management Liquidity management Liquidity risk management and measurement Liquidity management within the Group has several components.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due and to replace funds Intraday liquidity The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is when they are withdrawn, with consequent failure to repay recognised by the Group as a mission critical process: any failure to meet depositors and fulfil commitments to lend.
The risk that it specific intraday commitments would have significant consequences.
will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access to and can be impacted by a range of institution specific and sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and payment events, merger and acquisition activity, systemic shocks system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that and natural disasters.
at all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
The Group actively engages in payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems are robust.
Day to day funding Day to day funding, managed by short term mismatch limits for the next day, week and month which control expected cash flows to ensure that requirements can be met.
These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Group maintains an active presence in global money markets and monitors and manages the wholesale money market capacity for the Groups name to enable that to happen.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors unmatched medium-term assets and the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Liquid assets The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable assets including UK, US and Euro-area government bonds that can be sold or funded on a secured basis as protection against any unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
The Group accesses secured funding markets in these assets on a regular basis to ensure market access.
The Group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruption to cash flow.
Diversification of liquidity sources Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In addition, to avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 107 Risk management Liquidity management Structural liquidity The Group maintained its strong liquidity profile throughout and saw An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail some benefit from a flight to quality in financial markets.
Nevertheless, deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and Barclays, like its peers, was affected by the increased volatility and impaired savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand liquidity in financial markets.
During this period the Groups balance sheet and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers expanded due to: numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected The disruption of the Asset Backed Commercial Paper ABCP market fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups led to liquidity facilities for third party conduits being drawn down.
Liquidity facilities were provided to three client SIV-lites which were The Group policy is to fund the balance sheet of the retail and commercial restructured during the period.
bank on a global basis with customer deposits without recourse to the wholesale markets.
This provides protection from the liquidity risk of A number of loan syndications were delayed and remained on our wholesale market funding.
The exception to this policy is Absa, which has balance sheet.
a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structural nature of the The demand for ABCP issued by Barclays-sponsored conduits South African financial sector.
weakened temporarily with the result that a small portion of their Stress tests funding was provided by Barclays.
Stress testing is undertaken to assess and plan for the impact of various These liquidity demands were all successfully managed within overall scenarios which may put the Groups liquidity at risk.
funding requirements despite occasional disruption of access to some Treasury develops and monitors a range of stress tests on the Groups funding markets.
Although term funding in interbank markets substantially projected cash flows.
These stress scenarios include Barclays-specific disappeared, liquidity remained good for Barclays.
scenarios such an unexpected rating downgrade and operational problems, Barclays diversified portfolio of highly marketable securities enabled the and external scenarios such as Emerging Market crises, payment system Group to continue accessing the repo market.
Securitisation accounts disruption and macro-economic shocks.
The output informs both the for a modest proportion of the Groups funding so the disruption to liquidity mismatch limits and the Groups contingency funding plan.
the securitisation market has not significantly impacted the Groups This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country liquidity position.
business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, Assessment of liquidity the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
Barclays liquidity position remains very strong both for its own paper and paper issued by its sponsored conduits.
We have benefited from The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Banks significant inflows of deposits, increased credit lines from counterparties, credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is regularly increased client flows and continued full funding of our conduits.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price at which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered The markets in 2008 have substantially improved with the passing of material in Group terms.
the year end, and a degree of normality has returned to the term interbank markets.
However we expect there to continue to be dislocations For further details see contractual obligations and commercial commitments through 2008, and we remain vigilant to ensure that our liquidity profile of the Group on page 60. remains strong.
Recent market events The FSA published a discussion paper in December 2007 setting out The second half of last year saw a sustained period of severe stress in draft proposals for a new quantitative framework for regulating liquidity international financial markets characterised by increased volatility and of banks in the UK in the light of the experiences of 2007.
Issuance of debt, particularly structured credit and the FSA intention to update the liquidity regime.
The asset-backed commercial paper market was severely disrupted, resulting in the drawn down of committed liquidity lines from banks, while primary issuance of mortgage-backed securities and covered bonds stopped for a time.
The repo markets including tri-party were also disrupted with the repo market for corporate debt closing for a time.
Term money market funding became difficult to obtain and spreads over official rates widened.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Risk management Operational risk management Barclays works closely with peer banks to benchmark our internal Operational risk management Operational Risk practices and to drive the development of advanced Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses Operational Risk techniques across the industry.
It is not cost effective to resulting from human factors, external events, and attempt to eliminate all operational risks and in any event it would not be inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
Events of small significance are expected to occur and Operational risks are inherent in Barclays operations and are are accepted as inevitable: events of material significance are rare and the Group seeks to reduce the risk from these in a framework consistent with typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational its agreed Risk Appetite.
risk include: operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, Organisation and structure implementation of strategic change, integration of Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas of identified risk by Principal Risk owners see page 85.
The risk of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
categories relevant to operational risks are Financial Crime, Financial Reporting, Taxation, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory, Technology Barclays is committed to the advanced management and Change.
In addition the following risk categories are used for business of operational risks.
In particular, it has implemented risk: Brand Management, Corporate Responsibility and Strategic.
improved management and measurement approaches for Responsibility for implementing and overseeing these policies is operational risk to strengthen control, improve customer positioned throughout the organisation.
The prime responsibility for service and minimise operating losses.
Barclays was the management of operational risk and the compliance with control granted a Waiver to operate an Advanced Measurement requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk Approach AMA under Basel II, which commenced in arises.
Frontline risk managers are widely distributed throughout the Group in business units.
They service and support these areas, assisting January 2008. line managers in managing these risks.
The Groups operational risk management framework Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing aims to: the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
Governance and Control Committees in each business monitor control effectiveness.
Understand and report the operational risks being taken The Group Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the by the Group.
committees in the businesses and considers Group-wide control issues and their remediation.
Capture and report operational errors made.
In the corporate centre, each Principal Risk is owned by a senior individual Understand and minimise the frequency and impact, who liaises with Principal Risk owners within the businesses.
In addition, on a cost benefit basis, of operational risk events.
the Operational Risk Director oversees the range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the Group Operational Risk Framework.
Business units are required to report on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the key risks to their business objectives, control issues of Group-level significance, and operational risk events.
Specific reports are prepared on a regular basis for the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board Audit Committee.
In particular, the Group Operational Risk Profile and Group Operating Committee Report is provided quarterly to the Group Risk Oversight Committee.
The Internal Audit function provides further assurance for operational risk control across the organisation and reports to the Board and senior management.
Operational risk measurement and capital modelling Barclays applies a consistent approach to the identification and assessment of key risks and controls across all business units.
Managers in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate control effectiveness and monitor capability.
Business management determines whether particular risks are effectively managed within business risk appetite and otherwise takes remedial action.
The risk assessment process is consistent with the principles in the integrated framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
A standard process is used Group-wide for the recognition, capture, assessment, analysis and reporting of risk events.
This process is used to help identify where process and control requirements are needed to reduce the recurrence of risk events.
Risk events are loaded onto a central database and reported monthly to the Operational Risk Executive Committee.
Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events and is a member of the Operational Risk Data Exchange ORX, an association of international banks that share anonymised loss data information to assist in risk identification, assessment and modelling.
By combining internal data, including internal loss experience, risk and control assessments, key indicators and audit findings, with external loss data and expert management judgement, Barclays is able to generate Key Risk Scenarios KRSs, which identify the most significant operational risks Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 109 Risk management Operational risk management across the Group.
The KRSs are validated at business unit and at Group Analysis of Barclays operational risk events in 2007 by Basel II category, as level to ensure that they appropriately reflect the level of operational risk.
shown in figure 3, highlights that the highest frequency of events occurred It is these that are the main input to our capital model.
in External Fraud 54% and Execution, Delivery and Process Management 37%.
These two areas also accounted for the majority of losses by value Operational risk capital is allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business figure 4, with Execution, Delivery and Process Management accounting units in the form of economic capital charges, providing an incentive to for 52% of total operational risk losses and External Fraud accounting for manage these risks within appetite levels.
This again was consistent with 2006 internal risk events and, from our analysis of external data, is in line with industry experience.
Operational Risk Events Barclays has been granted a waiver by the UK FSA to apply an Advanced A high proportion of Barclays operational risk events have a low financial Measurement Approach AMA for Group-wide consolidated and solus cost associated with them and a very small proportion of operational risk regulatory capital reporting.
Barclays has applied the AMA Group-wide.
Figure 1 shows that in 2007, 79% of The two areas where roll-out of AMA is still continuing are Banco Austral reported operational loss events had a value of 50,000 or less.
Figure 2 Mozambique and National Bank of Commerce Limited Tanzania, shows that this 79% of risk events by count only amounted to 15% of risk where the Standardised Approach is currently applied.
In certain joint events by value.
In contrast, 2% of the operational risk events had a value ventures and associates, Barclays may not be able to apply the Advanced of 1m or greater but accounted for 50% of the overall loss.
This was Operational Risk Framework.
Barclays does not currently use insurance consistent with 2006 risk events and, from our analysis of external data, or expected losses to offset its regulatory capital requirement.
is in line with industry experience.
1: Operational risk events 10k % of total risk events by count % of 06 loss events count % of 07 loss events count 10k-50k 50k-250k 250k-1m 1m Fig.
4: Operational risk events by category % of total by value Fig.
2: Operational risk events 10k % of total by value 1 Business Disruptions 1 10k-50k and System Failures 2 50k-250k 2 Clients, Products and 3 250k-1m Business Practices 4 1m 61 6 1 1 1 5 2 3 Execution, Delivery and 5 2 Process Management 4 4 2 4 2 4 4 Employment Practices and Workplace Safety 3 3 3 3 and Damage to Physical Assets 5 External Fraud 6 Internal Fraud 06 07 06 07 Fig.
3: Operational risk events by risk category % of total risk events by count % of 06 loss events count % of 07 loss events count Business Clients, products Damage to Employment Execution, External fraud Internal fraud disruptions and and business physical assets practices and delivery and system failures practices workplace safety process management 110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 3 82 3 79 1 14 1 16 0.3 3 0.3 3 1 1 2 0.4 32 37 59 54 3 4 Business review Risk management 1 Financial crime risk management Financial crime risk management Anti-money laundering and sanctions risk The Group assesses the implications of all emerging legal and regulatory Barclays adopts an integrated approach to financial requirements that impact it and establishes policies and procedures in crime risk management.
In line with the five-step risk respect of AML, terrorist financing and sanctions, updating these regularly.
management model, Group Financial Crime Management It operates an AML assurance programme to ensure a system of effective GFCM has the responsibility to direct, assess, control, controls to comply with the overarching policies, providing technical report and manage challenge financial crime risks, which guidance and support to each business unit.
are structured into three strands: anti-money laundering GFCM collates and oversees the preparation of Group-wide management AML and sanctions: fraud: and security.
information on AML and sanctions.
This information includes risk indicators, such as volumes of suspicious activity reports SARs and is Each business unit within Barclays develops its own supplemented by trend analysis, which highlights high-risk or emerging capability to tackle financial crime, providing regular issues so that prompt action can be taken to address them.
reporting on performance, incidents and the latest trends Three committees the Sanctions Cross Cluster Operational Review impacting business.
This integrated model allows us to: Board, the AML Steering Committee and the Policy Review Forum review Develop a clear profile of financial crime risk across business performance, share intelligence, develop and agree controls, and discuss emerging themes and the implementation status of policies and the Group.
Share intelligence, adopt common standards and All businesses contribute towards the Group Money Laundering respond promptly to emerging issues.
Reporting Officers Annual Report, which is provided to Group Senior Executive Management and is available to the FSA.
Together with regular Drive forward law enforcement and other Government management information and conformance testing, this report updates initiatives.
senior management with evidence that the Groups money laundering and terrorist financing risks are being appropriately, proportionally and Benchmark ourselves against other financial institutions effectively managed.
During 2007, the Group augmented its AML capability, implementing third EU money laundering directive, with its guiding principle of a riskbased approach.
For AML, this must be proportionate to the perceived risks and threats, including terrorist financing.
A new Group AML Policy, launched in December 2007 and encapsulating the risk-based approach, has further improved the Groups customer due diligence procedures and standards, transaction monitoring and staff training and awareness.
The Group also implemented EU Regulation 1781 2006, which aims to ensure thorough and robust audit trails concerning electronic transfers.
This assists the Group in monitoring its AML and terrorist financing and improves the information available to law enforcement authorities.
Barclays continues to upgrade its sanctions screening capabilities, in line with best international practice and changing regulatory requirements.
The Group has invested substantial resources to further enhance its monitoring capabilities in this area and will continue to do so.
In 2008, the Group will review procedures to ensure compliance with forthcoming legislation concerning the Single European Payments Area SEPA.
Should the US enact current draft legislation outlawing the use of the international payments and clearing systems for perceived illegal US internet gaming transactions, further enhancements to payments activity monitoring will follow.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 111 Risk management Financial crime risk management Following the loss of personal data, including bank details, by both Fraud risk Government agencies and other third parties, data protection and security The Group establishes and operates a fraud risk control framework which was a prominent theme in 2007.
Barclays treats any incident of this nature measures overall fraud risk exposure and controls.
Together with Groupwith the utmost importance and has worked closely with industry and the wide policies, this directs how fraud is managed.
Government to take steps to: The Group Financial Crime Management team GFCM is responsible for Reassure customers and provide points of contact for help and guidance.
delivering the overall fraud strategy and providing oversight to Group and Business Units in order to manage fraud risk.
The strategy is designed to: Protect any customer accounts, whose details may have been compromised.
Identify emerging threats in order that effective controls are embedded across the Group and build up capability to manage risk.
Develop a standard approach for dealing with accounts that may be impacted by data security breaches.
Identify and manage fraud incidents, ensuring regulatory and legal conformance, appropriate escalation and control issues are addressed Security risk to prevent further loss.
Group Financial Crime Management GFCM also manages security risk.
Work proactively to highlight areas of concern in order that remediation Its fundamental objective is to allow Barclays to operate in a safe and can take place.
secure manner in all existing and potential future markets.
GFCM assesses the fraud risk of existing and emerging products, services, In pursuit of this objective, the Security Risk team gathers and shares processes and jurisdictions to drive down fraud losses as turnover growth current threat assessments across business areas, using intelligence from increases.
It also represents Barclays at trade, industry and Government Security and Government Agencies and in country teams.
It ensures that bodies providing a conduit to maximise the flow of information and suitable policies and control systems are in place to protect Group intelligence.
GFCM also provides technical expertise to business areas business and that plans to protect high-risk personnel are fit for purpose whether to drive through Group solutions or provide assistance with and in line with accepted best practice.
Barclays has developed and continues to improve a robust people Business Units, together with product holders and channels identify their screening process to protect the bank from those people who want to appetite for fraud loss which informs and determines the overall fraud harm the organisation, by either joining as staff members or becoming plan.
Objectives are then set around these plans.
At a business level, fraud risk loss committees track fraud and in some Security Risk is regularly reported by the businesses and reviewed via cases operational loss.
The Barclays Group Fraud Risk profile is exercised the Security Risk Management Committee, whose objectives are to: regularly through the review and challenge of the net losses and key risk metrics: these are then viewed against the overall Fraud Risk Profile Fraud Consider the latest management information and security threat Oversight Committee.
Fraud is reported monthly to senior management both within the Business Drive forward mitigating action to protect the Group from potential Units and to Group who provide a global oversight of fraud loss.
measured against plan for both net and gross losses and in line with the Provide guidance to the design and effectiveness of the overall Barclays Principal Risk Policy: Key Risk Indicators KRIs are embedded in order that Security Risk framework.
overall exposure can be established.
Ensure all Security Risk workstreams have been effectively integrated As a result of this process, fraud performance both at Business Unit and and implemented.
Group level can be measured and appropriate action taken to minimise or Monitor corporate security profiles against the agreed plan, tracking track significant issues.
issues in order that remedial action can be taken.
Externally there are in country industry-wide forums to which Barclays contributes and in some cases can benchmark performance, controls and current and emerging issues.
Barclays overall reported fraud losses fell in 2007, with most of the reduction coming from significant falls in internet banking fraud.
As part of its efforts to enhance security, Barclays offers all its personal customers complimentary internet security software to reduce phishing attacks.
The Group has also rolled out two-factor authentication technology using the new PINsentry device to make online transactions more secure.
Enhanced transaction profiling has further improved our ability to identify where customer accounts have been targeted by fraudsters and take preventative action to protect funds.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review Risk management 1 Statistical information Statistical and other risk information This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
For commentary on this information, please refer to the preceding text pages 90 to 101.
Barclays applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from 1st January 2004, with the exception of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were applied from 1st January 2005. Credit risk management Table 1: Risk Tendency by business 2007 2006 m m UK Banking 775 790 UK Retail Banking 470 500 Barclays Commercial Bank 305 290 Barclaycard 945 1,135 International Retail and Commercial Banking 475 220 International Retail and Commercial Banking excluding Absa 220 75 International Retail and Commercial Banking Absa 255 145 Barclays Capital 140 95 Barclays Wealth 10 10 a Head office functions and other operations 10 10 Risk Tendency by business 2,355 2,260 Table 2: Loans and advances 2007 2006 m m Retail businesses Banks Customers 164,062 139,350 Total retail businesses 164,062 139,350 Wholesale businesses Banks 40,123 30,930 Customers 185,105 146,281 Total wholesale businesses 225,228 177,211 Loans and advances 389,290 316,561 Note a Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued business in transition.
from 1st January 2005. b Excludes commercial property mortgages.
The industry classifications in Tables 5-9 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Excludes commercial property mortgages.
The 2004 analysis excludes reverse repurchase agreements.
c Overseas customers are now classified as part of other industry segments.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 115 Risk management Statistical information Table 8: Loans and advances to customers in the United States IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m Financial services 29,342 17,516 16,229 9,942 919 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 2 21 1 Manufacturing 818 519 937 388 341 Construction 18 13 32 139 2 Property 568 1,714 329 394 1 Government 221 153 300 Energy and water 1,279 1,078 1,261 891 1,358 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 398 403 794 466 77 Transport 137 128 148 186 468 Postal and communication 2,446 36 236 63 153 Business and other services 1,053 1,432 885 1,565 220 b Home loans 458 349 2 5,768 Other personal 3,256 2,022 1,443 845 Finance lease receivables 304 312 328 335 33 Loans and advances to customers in the United States 40,300 25,677 22,925 20,982 3,573 See note under Table 6.
Table 10: Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m Loans and advances 22,702 14,207 13,407 10,520 2,751 Finance lease receivables 118 108 107 74 Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World 22,820 14,315 13,514 10,594 2,751 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Note a In the UK, finance lease receivables are included in Other lending, although some leases are to corporate customers.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 117 Risk management Statistical information Table 13: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m Off-balance sheet exposures Contingent liabilities 45,774 39,419 47,143 Commitments 192,639 205,504 203,785 On-balance sheet exposures Trading portfolio assets 193,691 177,867 155,723 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 56,629 31,799 12,904 Derivative financial instruments 248,088 138,353 136,823 Available for sale financial investments 43,072 51,703 53,497 Table 14: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives as at 31st December 2007 2006 2005 m m m a Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 2,472,249 1,224,548 609,381 Total 2,472,249 1,224,548 609,381 Table 15: Credit risk loans summary IFRS UK GAAP b 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m c Impaired loans 8,574 4,444 4,550 n a n a Non-accruing loans n a n a n a 2,115 2,261 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions n a n a n a 492 629 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made n a n a n a 943 821 Subtotal 8,574 4,444 4,550 3,550 3,711 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 794 598 609 550 590 Impaired and restructured loans 273 46 51 15 4 Credit risk loans 9,641 5,088 5,210 4,115 4,305 Notes a Includes credit derivatives held as economic hedges which are not designated as b 2004 does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became hedges for accounting purposes.
effective from 1st January 2005. c Includes 3,344m of ABS CDO Super Senior exposures.
118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Table 16: Credit risk loans IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m b Impaired loans: United Kingdom 3,605 3,340 2,965 n a n a Other European Union 472 410 345 n a n a United States 3,703 129 230 n a n a Africa 757 535 831 n a n a Rest of the World 37 30 179 n a n a Total 8,574 4,444 4,550 n a n a Non-accrual loans: United Kingdom n a n a n a 1,509 1,572 Other European Union n a n a n a 243 143 United States n a n a n a 258 383 Africa n a n a n a 74 86 Rest of the World n a n a n a 31 77 Total n a n a n a 2,115 2,261 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions: United Kingdom n a n a n a 323 559 Other European Union n a n a n a 31 29 Africa n a n a n a 21 37 Rest of the World n a n a n a 117 4 Total n a n a n a 492 629 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made: United Kingdom n a n a n a 865 760 Other European Union n a n a n a 27 35 United States n a n a n a 26 Africa n a n a n a 21 22 Rest of the World n a n a n a 4 4 Total n a n a n a 943 821 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest: United Kingdom 676 516 539 513 566 Other European Union 79 58 53 34 24 United States 10 3 1 Africa 29 21 17 1 Rest of the World 1 Total 794 598 609 550 590 Impaired and restructured loans: United Kingdom 179 524 Other European Union 14 10 7 United States 38 22 16 13 Africa 42 14 23 Total 273 46 51 15 4 Total credit risk loans: United Kingdom 4,460 3,856 3,509 3,212 3,461 Other European Union 565 478 405 335 231 United States 3,751 154 246 298 383 Africa 828 570 871 117 145 Rest of the World 37 30 179 153 85 Credit risk loans 9,641 5,088 5,210 4,115 4,305 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Includes 3,344m of ABS CDO Super Senior Exposures.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 119 Risk management Statistical information Table 17: Potential problem loans IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m United Kingdom 419 465 640 658 989 Other European Union 59 32 26 32 23 United States 964 21 12 27 259 Africa 355 240 248 67 53 Rest of the World 33 14 3 b Potential problem loans 1,797 761 929 798 1,327 Table 18: Interest foregone on credit risk loans 2007 2006 2005 m m m Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractual terms United Kingdom 340 357 304 Rest of the World 91 70 52 Total 431 427 356 Interest income of approximately 48m 2006: 72m, 2005: 29m from such loans was included in profit, of which 26m 2006: 49m, 2005: 20m related to domestic lending and the remainder related to foreign lending.
In addition, a further 113m 2006: 98m, 2005: 76m was recognised arising from impaired loans.
Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the expected future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
93m 2006: 88m, 2005: 70m of this related to domestic impaired loans and the remainder related to foreign impaired loans.
Table 19: Analysis of impairment provision charges IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 At 31st December m m m m m Impairment charge net specific provisions charge United Kingdom 1,593 1,880 1,382 1,021 1,132 Other European Union 123 92 75 102 37 United States 374 12 76 57 84 Africa 214 143 37 27 21 Rest of the World 2 53 4 103 46 Impairment on loans and advances 2,306 2,074 1,574 n a n a Impairment on available for sale assets 13 86 4 n a n a Impairment charge 2,319 2,160 1,578 n a n a Total net specific provisions charge n a n a n a 1,310 1,320 General provisions release charge n a n a n a 206 27 Other credit provisions charge release 476 6 7 11 Impairment provision charges 2,795 2,154 1,571 1,093 1,347 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Includes 951m of ABS CDO Super Senior and SIV-lites exposures.
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Table 20: Impairment provisions charges ratios Loan loss ratios IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 % %%% % Impairment provisions charges as a percentage of average loans and advances for the year: Specific provisions charge n a n a n a 0.40 0.46 General provisions charge n a n a n a 0.07 0.01 Impairment charge 0.64 0.66 0.58 n a n a Total 0.64 0.66 0.58 0.33 0.47 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.49 0.61 0.50 0.40 0.48 Table 21: Analysis of allowance for impairment provision for bad and doubtful debts IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Impairment allowance Specific provisions United Kingdom 2,526 2,477 2,266 1,683 1,856 Other European Union 344 311 284 149 97 United States 356 100 130 155 121 Africa 514 417 647 70 79 Rest of the World 32 30 123 90 80 Specific provision balances n a n a n a 2,147 2,233 General provision balances n a n a n a 564 795 Allowance for impairment provision balances 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,711 3,028 Average loans and advances for the year 357,853 313,614 271,421 328,134 285,963 Table 22: Allowance for impairment provision balance ratios IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 % %%% % Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Specific provision balances n a n a n a 0.62 0.77 General provision balances n a n a n a 0.16 0.27 Impairment balance 0.97 1.05 1.14 n a n a Total 0.97 1.05 1.14 0.78 1.04 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 121 Risk management Statistical information Table 23: Movements in allowance for impairment provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m Allowance for impairment provision balance at beginning of year 3,335 3,450 2,637 2,946 2,998 Acquisitions and disposals 73 23 555 21 62 Unwind of discount 113 98 76 n a n a Exchange and other adjustments 53 153 125 33 18 Amounts written off 1,963 2,174 1,587 1,582 1,474 Recoveries 227 259 222 255 113 b Impairment provision charged against profit 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,104 1,347 Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,711 3,028 Table 24: Amounts written off IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m United Kingdom 1,530 1,746 1,302 1,280 1,175 Other European Union 143 74 56 63 54 United States 145 46 143 50 215 Africa 145 264 81 15 13 Rest of the World 44 5 174 17 Amounts written off 1,963 2,174 1,587 1,582 1,474 Table 25: Recoveries IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m United Kingdom 154 178 160 217 95 Other European Union 32 18 13 9 7 United States 7 22 15 14 10 Africa 34 33 16 4 1 Rest of the World 81811 Recoveries 227 259 222 255 113 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit from 1st January 2005. risk provisions.
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Business review 1 Table 26: Impairment allowances provision charged against profit IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m New and increased impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 1,960 2,253 1,763 1,358 1,373 Other European Union 192 182 113 131 57 United States 431 60 105 85 118 Africa 268 209 109 47 33 Rest of the World 20 18 39 134 47 2,871 2,722 2,129 1,755 1,628 Reversals of impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 213 195 221 120 146 Other European Union 37 72 25 20 13 United States 50 26 14 14 24 Africa 20 33 56 16 10 Rest of the World 18 63 17 20 2 338 389 333 190 195 Recoveries 227 259 222 255 113 b Net impairment allowance specific provision charge 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,310 1,320 General provision release charge n a n a n a 206 27 Net charge to profit 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,104 1,347 Table 27: Total impairment specific provision charges for bad and doubtful debts by industry IFRS UK GAAP a 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 m m m m m United Kingdom: Financial services 32 64 22 1 13 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 5 9 3 Manufacturing 72 1 120 28 79 Construction 14 17 14 10 23 Property 36 15 18 42 3 Energy and water 1 7 1 3 13 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 118 88 39 66 38 Transport 3 19 27 19 100 Postal and communication 15 15 3 1 1 Business and other services 81 133 45 64 76 Home loans 1 4 7 17 9 Other personal 1,187 1,526 1,142 894 757 c Overseas customers 66 Finance lease receivables 33 329 1,593 1,880 1,382 1,021 1,132 Overseas 713 194 192 289 188 c Impairment specific provision charges 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,310 1,320 The category other personal now includes credit cards, personal loans, second liens and personal overdrafts.
The industry classifications in Tables 27, 28 and 29 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions.
from 1st January 2005. c Overseas customers are now classified as part of other industry segments.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective b Overseas customers are now classified as part of other industry segments.
