Risk management Fig 30: Beazley track record: Cycle management 25 1000 20 900 15 800 10 700 5 600 0 500 -5 400 -10 300 -15 200 -20 100 -25 0 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Beazley Capacity Beazley RoC Lloyds Market RoC Nicholas Furlonge Director, risk management Our business is to underwrite a diverse range of specialist classes of insurance.
This means that effective risk management is integral to everything we do.
The groups approach to risk management focuses upon: Limits and monitoring processes all risks in our business are clearly understood, measured and controlled: Organisational structure and accountabilities all risks in our business are clearly owned by individuals who are responsible for managing risk: and Constant evaluation of the risk versus reward equation for making decisions this ensures every decision we take is based upon its contribution to our overall performance.
Strong risk management discipline is and always has been part of what we do.
Nevertheless, our risk management practices are continuously evolving to meet new challenges as the business grows.
Some of our areas for focus in 2008 are outlined in more detail below.
Managing the cycle One of the key challenges for many insurers in 2008 will be to manage the insurance cycle.
This is the risk of softening market conditions causing premium rates to fall and or claims frequency and values to increase.
Our tried and tested approach to cycle management is demonstrated through our strong and consistent trading record.
Accessing this experience will be a key differentiator for our business as we can call upon our experience and leading market position to: Maintain expertise deliberately attracting and retaining top talent across our business to outperform on underwriting, claims management, marketing, distribution and risk management: Unlock value through claims our focus upon superior claims management means we can attract and retain the best business and effectively respond to new claims trends in our underwriting: Create diversity deliberately reducing our reliance on and the impact of any one portfolio by spreading our business across products, geography and size: Focus on long-term objectives by being clear about where we want to be for all our classes of business at the top of the next cycle we can ensure our plans, tactics and infrastructure are ready to meet these goals: Consolidate barriers to entry we specialise in classes of business which have barriers to entry.
This allows us to build upon well-established infrastructure, service, stability and relationship management in our core markets so that we continue to attract the best business available: and Apply technical skills by supporting our underwriters and claims managers with the tools they need to exercise superior skills in pricing, market segmentation, risk selection, data analysis, reinsurance buying and management control.
Underwriting risk Our business is founded upon a complementary blend of catastrophe and non-catastrophe insurance portfolios.
To manage these exposures we model and stress test our risks to understand the expected financial impact of extreme events which result in policyholder claims.
For classes of business where accumulations of losses can result from a single event, such as property, marine energy, terrorism and war, we set insurance risk appetite limits.
These risk tolerances are based upon the extremity of potential events, the impact they could have upon our forecast earnings and capital, and the potential opportunities that will exist to write high-margin business afterwards.
com Return on Capacity % Capacity m Fig 31: Business planning process 2 3 1 1 Business plan and ICA closely aligned 4 Set global Risk Appetite Executive Used to allocate capital 3 key dates of sign off ICA challenge June 2 Schedules produced setting out volumes, September profit and return on capital December Short and long term plans Increased focus on profit and expenses 5 Detailed business plan Business plan options and impact on Segmentation 6 Business Plan ICA shown Market position Key skills and talent management 3 Example issues addressed Portfolio mix 6 Formal challenge by the Finance strategy for improving Director and Team leaders to: Team Board low ranked classes Identify key issues initial plan Group reinsurance retention option chosen Reassess reinsurance strategy 5 4 Acquisition options Our largest risk appetite relates to a modelled probabilistic 1 in 250 year US natural catastrophe event, such as wind storm or earthquake, and in 2008 we will manage to an amount of $340m after reinsurance.
We also have market leading portfolios in areas such as professional indemnity and directors and ofcers liability insurance.
For these classes the primary risk is charging premium rates that are too low as a result of external factors such as new laws, social trends or systemic events or regulations which subsequently lead to larger than expected claims.
They are other types of risk, which continue to benefit our business by providing healthy diversication from the typical natural catastrophe exposures of many London market insurers, such as Florida wind or California earthquake.
Investment risk We adopt a conservative approach to investment risk arising from uncertain movements in financial markets, interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Through setting comprehensive investment guidelines, regularly monitoring the performance of the underlying investment managers and stress testing our investment portfolio we can assess if our overall risk and return targets are being met and protect our investments from adverse financial markets.
We therefore constantly monitor our investment exposures in areas such as asset duration, type, maturity prole, rating, economic sector, individual counterparty and issuer.
To avoid very volatile returns from changes to interest rates, our investment approach specically does not require the asset portfolios to match the duration of our liabilities.
Although this creates some residual economic risk, we closely monitor the asset-liability duration mismatch as part of our regular risk assessment, and to manage income our investment managers are tasked with delivering returns in excess of LIBOR from a balanced portfolio with low risk of loss.
To minimise the risk of an event impacting both our claims liabilities and our investment portfolios, we carefully limit investments in areas which correlate with our insurance portfolios.
For example, we avoid emerging market investments which could potentially clash with our political risk exposures.
Credit risk As market conditions soften, this will challenge the financial stability of some rms.
Therefore we thoroughly vet all of our counterparties, such as reinsurers and brokers, before trading with them.
We also carefully monitor their performance regularly which has given us a good track record in the Lloyds market for avoiding reinsurer bad debts.
Emerging risk identication We employ specialist teams to support our underwriters in identifying external trends and issues.
Using this research improves our underwriting risk selection, allows us to avoid markets in decline and improves our claims management capabilities.
For example, we closely monitor developments in US tort reform to determine the likely impact on claim frequency and severity for classes of business such as healthcare, allowing us to tailor our underwriting approach at the earliest opportunity.
Beazley Annual Report 2007 33 Risk management continued Assessing risk versus reward By allocating capital to each investment and underwriting segment and regularly reviewing returns, we manage our business in a way that supports our core markets and targets growth on the best opportunities as they arise.
To optimise use of the groups capacity for risk, allocation between classes of business and types of risk is reviewed regularly through stress and scenario analysis.
Stochastic modelling techniques are also used to rigorously assess the capital requirements of our business plans through the ICA process.
Risk assurance framework Our risk assurance framework encourages all our business areas to focus upon achieving the groups strategic objectives.
The board of directors has ultimate responsibility for dening the groups risk tolerance, with key individuals and committees made accountable for day-to-day management of risks and controls which arise from their activity.
In 2007 the effectiveness of our risk management was formally acknowledged by S&P, who have categorised it as Strong, which ranks our practices in the top quartile of companies rated by them.
Risk management team The purpose of our risk management team is to facilitate and strengthen effective risk management in all of our activities.
Their primary goal is to help the business achieve a consistent approach to the identication, measurement and mitigation of risk across the group.
Active participation of this team in all board meetings and senior management committees ensures that risks are monitored and managed as they arise.
This team uses a leading edge system called the BeazleyRiskMatrix to support its work.
This online risk management tool allows the emerging risk prole of the group to be captured and analysed in real time using information input directly by risk and control owners across our worldwide locations.
Internal audit and compliance Our internal audit and compliance teams reinforce our comprehensive risk management strategies.
They work closely with the risk management team and the business to co-ordinate activity, avoid duplication and deliver a targeted risk-based approach.
com Key risks at a glance The group has identied six primary categories of risk that arise from its activities: Risk type Sources Importance to group capital requirements Insurance Underwriting Dominant Reinsurance Claims management Reserving and ultimate reserves Credit Reinsurers Material Brokers and intermediaries Investments Liquidity Insurance and non-insurance Low cash calls Market Foreign exchange Material Interest rates Investment prices Operational People Moderate Process and systems Regulation Service provider Business continuity Information security Financial reporting Data integrity Legal Group Strategic Moderate Reputation Management stretch Note 2 on pages 70 to 78 provides further detail about the groups denition, appetite and controls for our key risks.
