BlueBay Asset Management plc 46 Annual Report 2007 Risk Management and Internal Control Figure 8: BlueBays investment process Investment Committee Risk Management Non-Security Specic top-down inputs Emerging Market Debt Portfolio European Corporate Debt Portfolio Management long-only and long short Management long-only and long short Security Specic bottom-up inputs Credit Research Execution & Financing Source: BlueBay Asset Management plc The Board places a high priority on a strong risk management Investment risk culture within the Group.
The Board recognises that risk is One of BlueBays key corporate objectives is to generate strong riskinherent in the Groups business and the markets in which adjusted investment performance over the term of the credit cycle.
Effective risk management and strong internal The investment process is designed to help us to meet this objective controls are therefore central to the Groups business model.
The tone of BlueBays internal control environment is set through: The investment process combines a series of top-down inputs with bottom-up security specific analysis.
The top-down inputs A clear definition of management and staff responsibilities, with are provided through the Investment Committee, which comprises reporting lines incorporating segregation of duties: all senior portfolio managers and the Chief Investment Officer.
Recruitment procedures to ensure that BlueBay recruits only staff It meets on a regular basis to formulate a common view on the of appropriate calibre and background: macro-economic backdrop and market conditions against which Transaction processing functions that focus on timely processing BlueBay makes its investment decisions.
Each of the portfolio and recording of investment transactions, including the management teams comprises a number of dedicated credit analysts maintenance of consistent records and accurate reporting of who are sub-asset class specialists.
holdings to clients: Active and  compliance and risk Portfolio risk management management teams: and Overall responsibility for portfolio risk rests with the Chief Investment The encouragement of a culture of openness and mutual trust Officer who retains responsibility for setting portfolio risk targets, between colleagues.
in conjunction with the Investment Committee and senior portfolio managers.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk management process at BlueBay.
This responsibility is primarily fulfilled by two of its subEach portfolio management team is responsible for ensuring its committees: the Audit Committee, which is responsible for the portfolio is in compliance with fund investment restrictions.
To assist oversight of the risk management process and for assessing its them in this task, the investment restrictions which govern positions effectiveness for BlueBay and the Management Committee, which is in securities and relate to the majority of the portfolio's investment responsible for the identification, assessment and management of risks.
transactions are programmed into BlueBay's portfolio management system, the Charles River Compliance Master the Portfolio The Management Committee relies on the support provided by two Management System.
internal committees to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities: Portfolio managers originate orders but do not execute trades.
This is The Investment Committee which is responsible for reviewing done by the trade execution desk, an independent team made up of the investment strategies of each of the portfolio management dedicated traders with specialised market knowledge by asset class.
The execution team receives orders which are then traded in the The Compliance and Control Committee which is responsible for market.
The segregation of the portfolio management and trade BlueBays operational risk management processes and internal execution functions is an integral part of BlueBay's risk management control framework.
When a portfolio manager enters an investment order in the Portfolio Management System, the system runs a compliance check on the order before electronically passing it to the BlueBay trade BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 47 execution team.
If the executed order were to bring a portfolio Counterparty credit risk management holding close to an investment limit, the Portfolio Management BlueBay funds only enter into over-the-counter OTC derivative System would issue a warning which the portfolio manager has transactions with highly rated institutions with which they have to override in order to transmit the trade to the execution team.
signed International Swap Dealers Association ISDA Master Agreements.
Each counterparty has been approved by BlueBay's If the executed order were to cause a breach of an investment Chief Investment Officer and the Compliance Officer and each new restriction, the Portfolio Management System would issue an alert counterparty requires the approval of both the Chief Investment which the portfolio manager would be unable to override and Officer and Compliance Officer before a trade with that counterparty transmission of the order to the trade execution team would be may be executed.
BlueBay periodically assesses concentrations of prevented.
Occasionally, there are circumstances where an alert may credit risk with particular counterparties, by taking into account be justifiably overridden, however, this can only be carried out by current exposures and potential future exposures due to changes a member of the Compliance team.
A few investment restrictions in market rates.
cannot be programmed into the Portfolio Management System so portfolio managers review these orders manually prior to Operational risk transmitting them to the trade execution team.
The Compliance The Groups Compliance and Control Committee is responsible for team carries out a full review of all investment restrictions in all identifying the major risks to which the Group is exposed and for portfolios on a post-trade basis.
developing cost-effective policy proposals to manage those risks.
The Committee is responsible for developing and refining BlueBays Market risk management internal control policies and procedures.
The Committee comprises Risk is measured by calculating the sensitivity of every trade or position to the senior infrastructure managers, the head of the trade execution changes in the relevant risk factors.
On a daily basis, a set of standard desk, the Compliance Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and is risk reports is produced and distributed to the portfolio management chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
During the course of the teams and the Management Committee.
These daily risk reports financial year, the Committee carried out three major initiatives: include sensitivities to relevant risk factors, an assessment of overall value at risk VAR and the VAR contribution of every position and Review and update of the Groups risk register.
This is a a range of historical and customised stress tests.
On a regular basis document which identifies all the main business risks of the the results are back tested in order to validate the risk figures.
Group, assesses the impact and liabilities of a risk event and analyses the effects of risk mitigants.
This review was carried Independent risk monitoring is carried out by the Risk and out by a team comprising internal resources and operational Performance team.
The team uses RiskManager, an application risk experts sourced from KPMG.
developed by the RiskMetrics Group.
RiskManager models every Review and update of the Groups internal control procedures.
In instrument as a function of underlying risk factors, i. e. interest rates, the UK, asset managers internal control procedures were typically credit spreads, FX rates, equity prices and implied volatilities.
reviewed by external reporting accountants in accordance with the framework set out by the Financial Reporting and Audit Group Liquidity risk management FRAG in Audit 4 97 FRAG 21 94 revised issued by the Fund liquidity risk is managed by monitoring the amount of available Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales cash held in each fund on a daily basis and targeting an amount ICAEW.
This framework has now been replaced by a new that is deemed to be sufficient to cover the cash needs of the one set out in AAF 01 06 also issued by the ICAEW which applies funds including margin payments and potential redemptions under to all reporting periods starting on or after 31 March 2007. stressed market conditions without being forced to liquidate assets.
BlueBay Asset Management plc 48 Annual Report 2007 Risk Management and Internal Control continued This new framework requires asset managers to comply with Disaster recovery and backup procedures significantly more demanding internal control procedures.
The Company operates a robust disaster recovery platform that is BlueBay has taken this opportunity to review and improve its tested twice a year.
In the event of a local disaster, or failure to gain internal control environment in order to meet the new standard.
access to the Companys current location, SunGard Availability Review and update the Groups compliance manual and Services are contracted to provide workspace for the Companys procedures.
During the financial year, BlueBay designed a suite use.
The Company currently has several methods of server and of funds targeted exclusively for distribution in the US.
These data recovery in place which vary depending on the nature of the have been designed to accommodate taxable and non-taxable US event.
This includes an off-site high availability facility which hosts investors, including those which are subject to ERISA legislation.
replicated services for core servers and trade systems.
Back-up This prompted a review of the BlueBay compliance manual to servers for the Companys file server, email and core trading systems accommodate the additional US compliance requirements.
The are resident at the high availability site.
BlueBay compliance manual is updated on a regular basis to reflect changes in applicable legislation and regulations.
The Company has uninterruptible power sources at head office for all desktops, servers and communications equipment.
The Company Compliance backs up its servers at the end of each working day.
In addition to maintaining the investment restrictions for each mandate in the Portfolio Management System, the department Internal control reviews: FRAG AAF performs a monitoring role focusing on procedures and controls The Company appointed PwC as reporting accountant for the in place to ensure compliance with applicable legal and regulatory FRAG 21 report issued by the Financial Reporting and Audit Group standards.
The compliance arrangements which are designed for the nine months to 30 March 2007.
As noted above, the FRAG to promote compliance with regulations are set out in BlueBays internal controls review regime has been replaced by the Audit and compliance manual.
The compliance manual incorporates the code Assurance Faculty 01 06 AAF 01 06 internal control reporting of ethics which includes policies on personal account dealing, gifts framework.
For the year starting on 31 March 2007 and ending on and entertainment and insider trading policies.
All staff are required 30 March 2008, the Group intends to commission PwC to carry out to sign an undertaking that they are familiar with and will comply a review in accordance with this new framework.
Audit Committee The key responsibilities of the Compliance Team are: On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee confirms that it has undertaken an initial review of the effectiveness of the systems of Ensuring that business is conducted in accordance with FSA and internal control in existence in the Group for the year ended 30 June other applicable regulations: 2007 and has taken account of material developments since the year Ensuring that investment mandates are managed in accordance end.
This process will be completed before the end of the calendar with applicable regulations and mandate restrictions: year 2007 to the standard required by the Turnbull Guidance.
Reviewing and monitoring changes in regulations and laws and ensuring communication of relevant changes to the business units: Providing training sessions on regulatory requirements: Assisting in the resolution of rule breaches and client complaints and following up to ensure that controls are amended to prevent recurrence: and Serving as the primary contact with external regulators.
