Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 18 18 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Business review The Board is committed to the ongoing sustainability of the business and has established comprehensive control and governance structures to ensure the risks faced by the Group are carefully managed.
Risk management and control Introduction Other factors could also affect the Groups the Groups residential lending credit risk and Risk is inherent in the Groups business and results, including economic factors.
Our ability to identify, assess, monitor the risks described below should not be validation is provided by the Group Risk and manage each type of risk to which the considered to represent all of the potential risks function.
The Treasury Finance teams, which Group is exposed is an important factor in our and uncertainties which could impact the Group.
report into the Group Finance Director, are financial stability, performance, reputation and responsible for identification, measurement future success.
The principal risks which we Risk governance and monitoring of wholesale credit risk, face are credit risk, financial risk including The responsibility for the overall framework of market risk and liquidity risk.
Independent market and liquidity risk and operational risk.
risk governance and management lies with the monitoring of the risk management Our approach to risk management is built on Board of Directors.
The Board is responsible for framework is provided by risk management formal governance processes and relies on determining risk strategy, setting the Groups specialists based in the Risk, Audit and individual responsibility and collective oversight, risk appetite and ensuring that risk is Compliance functions.
It is also responsible for establishing a clearly defined In addition to individual responsibilities for The following sections describe our approach risk management structure with distinct roles risk management, there is a structure of to risk management.
The first section covers and responsibilities.
Within that structure, line committees that, under authority delegated the Groups risk governance structure.
The managers are responsible for the identification, by the Board, have formal responsibility for second section explains the way in which we measurement and management of the risks defined aspects of risk management.
identify and categorise the risks we face and within their areas of responsibility.
manage objectives and policies for each.
The roles and responsibilities of the risk In particular, the Residential Lending Credit management committees are set out in the Risk function, which reports into the Managing following paragraphs.
The relationship between Director, Products and Marketing, acts as the these committees and the risk management credit risk control unit with responsibility for functions are shown in the diagram below.
Audit BSMC The Board Committee EXCO ALCO Group Risk Committee Credit Risk Committee Group Finance Director Board Committee Director Group Risk, Audit & Internal Audit EXCO Committee Compliance Group Operational Risk Financial Risk Compliance Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 19 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 19 The information on pages 18 to 21 forms an integral part of the financial statements Audit Committee develop a Group strategy, policy and supporting Turnbull requirements: The Audit Committee is a non-executive framework for risk management, aligned report on a quarterly basis to the Board, committee that supports the Board in carrying with business requirements: through the Audit Committee, on the out its responsibilities for financial reporting, provide support to the Group in the operation of the control processes and including accounting policies, internal control implementation of the framework: managements progress in addressing and risk assessment.
The Audit Committee bring together analyses of risk concentrations identified issues: monitors the ongoing process of the and sensitivities across the Group: report the results of individual audits in the identification, evaluation and management act as a point of reference for risk and control period to the Audit Committee: of all significant risks throughout the Group.
matters, providing advice to management, report issues emerging from, and findings sharing best practice and carrying out special of, each audit to relevant management, Executive Committee EXCO reviews as directed by GRC and ALCO: and obtaining their commitment to undertake EXCO is responsible for the executive provide independent assessment of, appropriate remedial action: and management of the Group including risk and and challenge to the business areas risk continually review the effectiveness of the the application of the Groups risk policies management and profiles to ensure that Groups risk profile, placing appropriate through various committees and through their they are maintained in a robust manner.
reliance on the risk management process to ex-officio responsibilities.
EXCO consists of the optimise audit work.
Executive Board Directors and the HR Director.
Compliance Risk categorisation The role of Compliance is to: The Group categorises risk under the following Group Risk Committee GRC provide a focal point to co-ordinate headings: GRC is an executive risk governance communications and consultations with committee which supports EXCO in ensuring regulatory authorities: Credit risk that the Groups overall risk management achieve high standards of compliance Credit risk is the potential financial loss caused framework is effective and that key risks are advice and risk-based compliance, by a retail customer or wholesale counterparty managed cost effectively and to an according to agreed plans and standards: failing to meet their obligations to us as they acceptable level.
provide an effective compliance advisory become due.
This covers all exposures and and consultative service to the Group: includes credit risk on guarantees and Asset & Liability Management Committee carry out reviews of relevant business units, irrevocable undrawn facilities.
ALCO employing quantified risk-based ALCO is an executive committee which monitoring techniques to assess The taking of credit risk in order to earn a return monitors and manages the structure of the performance against the relevant rules, is a central feature of the Groups business.
Group balance sheet and agrees strategy guidance, codes of conduct and the Risks arising from changes in credit quality and and policy adjustment.
In addition, ALCO Groups internal policies and procedures: the recoverability of loans and amounts, due manages the Groups net interest income provide timely and objective reports of from counterparties, are inherent across most within the sensitivity limits established by findings, agreeing appropriate corrective of the Groups activities.
Adverse changes in the Board.
actions and monitoring implementation: the credit quality of borrowers or a general oversee the compliance performance of the deterioration in UK economic conditions could Credit Risk Committee CRC Group, keeping line management, GRC, the affect the recoverability and value of the CRC supports EXCO and GRC by advising on Audit Committee and the Board informed of Groups assets and therefore its financial the Groups credit risk framework and the state of compliance, measured against performance.
As credit risk is the main risk to reviewing, monitoring and recommending on objective and published performance the Group, a credit risk framework has been all credit matters relating to credit exposures standards and indicators, drawing attention to established as part of the overall governance and credit risk management strategies.
areas of under-performance and improving framework to measure, mitigate and manage or worsening trends and provide rapid alert to credit risk within the Groups risk appetite.
To a Balance Sheet Management Committee particular risks or failings: and lesser degree, the Group is exposed to other BSMC escalate any unremedied compliance failings forms of credit risk such as those arising from The role of BSMC is to oversee Treasury and through line management and if necessary trading and settlement activities where the risk balance sheet management matters in prompt effective enforcement measures.
is a consequence of undertaking the activity, advance of any recommendation to the Board.
rather than a driver for it.
This includes: Internal Audit consideration and approval of secured and We have contracted Ernst & Young to provide The Groups Credit Risk framework is based on securitised funding transactions and the internal audit services.
However, the management the allocation of the Groups lending into four establishment or renewal of Medium Term of the Internal Audit function remains firmly with risk categories.
These provide a sufficient level Funding Programmes in line with Treasury Bradford & Bingley.
The role of Internal Audit is to of detail to identify, monitor and manage the Policy statements: provide independent and objective assurance that overall credit risk profile on a monthly basis.
balance sheet issues such as the review of the process for identifying, evaluating and These categories are defined in relation to capital management and balance sheet managing significant risks faced by the Group is profitability as follows: strategies: appropriate and effectively applied.
medium risk: in the event of a markedly raising of capital and dividend policy: and adverse economy, high levels of bad debts monitoring the effect of these and other The specific role of Internal Audit is to: could result in significantly lower profits or initiatives on the Groups credit rating.
produce a formal, annual opinion on the losses being incurred: adequacy and effectiveness of the control medium low risk: a markedly adverse Group risk processes to the Audit Committee for economy would cause substantial The Group Risk function comprises Operational submission to the Board.
This opinion is reductions in profitability, but profits would Risk and Financial Risk and its role is to: based on agreed materiality thresholds, still be generated: Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 20 20 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Business review Risk management and control continued Low risk: only modest reductions in base and, where published, credit ratings frequency between daily and monthly, related profitability would be recorded even in the assigned by the major credit rating agencies.
to the granularity of the position.
For example, event of a markedly adverse economy: and the overall Group balance sheet interest rate risk Negligible risk: these are loans which have In addition to the credit risk governance exposure position is monitored monthly whilst low risk of default and, more importantly, framework outlined above, the Group takes several specific portfolios within the balance such high levels of security that, even in a security for funds advanced and, whilst these sheet are reviewed more frequently on a daily markedly adverse environment, it would are concentrated in the UK, manages the or weekly basis.
This reflects the dynamics and not be expected that any bad debt loss diversification of its portfolios through limits materiality of the various portfolios.
around individual counterparties, types of counterparty, industry and geographic regions.
Interest rate risk exposure is predominantly The assignment of the loans to the different managed through the use of interest rate risk categories is based on an assessment of Market risk derivatives, principally interest rate swaps and the relative risk of default and the strength of Market risk is the potential adverse change in interest rate futures contracts.
Interest rate the underlying security all retail customer Group income or Group net worth arising from swaps are over-the-counter arrangements lending being secured.
The resulting risk movements in interest rates, exchange rates with highly rated banking counterparties, profile is then projected forward based on or other market prices.
Effective identification while futures contracts are transacted through planned advances, redemptions, seasoning and management of market risk is essential regulated Futures Exchanges.
The Group also and Board approved limits structured in line for maintaining stable net interest income.
uses asset and liability positions to offset with the Groups risk appetite.
exposures naturally wherever possible to The most significant form of market risk to minimise the costs and risks of arranging Within the Treasury banking book, minimum which the Group is exposed is interest rate risk.
transactions external to the Group.
long-term or short-term credit ratings have This typically arises from mismatches between been set for all counterparties.
the repricing dates of the interest-bearing The Group established a limited trading book assets and liabilities on the Groups balance in January 2007.
This is subject to a rigid risk The Group also maintains a structured finance sheet, and from the investment profile of the limit framework that is reported daily.
The portfolio that primarily consists of investments in Groups capital and reserves.
Treasury is framework includes stop loss limits for daily asset backed securities ABS.
The credit risk is responsible for managing this exposure within 0.5m, monthly 1m and annual 2m driven by the quality of the underlying securitised the risk exposure limits set out in the Balance trading losses.
Any breaches of these limits assets which, in turn, drives the demand for, and Sheet Management policy, as approved by are reported to the Group Finance Director therefore marketability of, the issues.
To limit ALCO and the Board.
This policy sets out the immediately and to ALCO and the GRC.
credit risk and concentrations, overall investment nature of the market risks that may be taken in structured investments is capped with along with aggregate risk limits, and stipulates Foreign exchange risk separate limits set for the ABS portfolio and the procedures, instruments and controls to be As the Group does not actively seek foreign other products, including principal rated only used in managing market risk.
exchange exposures, with the net exposure notes and Structured Investment Vehicles SIVs.
to foreign currencies relating primarily to net It is ALCOs responsibility to approve strategies interest income streams denominated in the The limits on the amount of the investments for managing market risk exposures and foreign currencies, the limit placed on this risk portfolio, and the individual types of assets ensure that Treasury implements the is small in relation to the Groups other risk within it have been reduced for 2007 as part strategies so that the exposures are managed exposures.
This exposure limit and the small of the Groups approach to managing risk.
within the Groups approved policy limits.
range of foreign currencies it is related to are set out in the Balance Sheet Management The Group is firmly committed to the The Group assesses its exposure to interest policy that is approved by ALCO and the Board.
management of credit risk in both its lending rate movements using a number of techniques.
and wholesale money market activities.
In its However, there are two principal methods: The Group raises and invests funds in core lending activities, the Group employs a static framework that considers the currencies other than sterling.
Accordingly, sophisticated credit scoring, underwriting impact on the current balance sheet of an foreign exchange risk arises from activities and fraud detection techniques that support immediate movement of interest rates: and related to the Group managing borrowing sound credit decision making and work to a dynamic modelling framework that costs and investment returns.
As with interest minimise losses.
A proactive approach to the considers the projected change to both the rate risk, Treasury is responsible for managing identification and control of loan impairment balance sheet and product mortgage and this exposure within the limits set out in the is maintained in the Residential Lending Credit savings rates over the following year under Groups policies.
Risk and Credit Control areas, with challenge various interest rate scenarios.
and oversight provided by the Group Financial Foreign currency exposure is measured daily Risk Management function.
The results of these analyses are presented by Treasury taking into consideration all nonto senior management in order to identify, sterling assets and liabilities.
This exposure Lending policies and limits are reviewed and measure and manage the Groups exposure position broken down by individual foreign approved annually by the Board.
The CRC to interest rate risk.
The Group remained currency is then circulated to senior managers ensures that any exposure to credit risk, within all its interest rate risk exposure limits with an overall summary position provided to significant changes in policy, or expansion into during the year and preceding year.
senior executives on a monthly basis.
new areas of business remain within overall risk exposure levels as agreed by the Board.
Limits are placed on the sensitivity of the Group Funds raised in foreign currency are generally Authorised credit risk limits for wholesale balance sheet to movements in interest rates.
converted to sterling using currency swaps.
money market counterparties reflect the size, Exposures are reviewed as appropriate by Residual foreign exchange risk is managed depth and quality of a counterpartys capital senior management and the Board with a through the use of foreign exchange contracts.
Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 21 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 21 It is also managed by matching foreign The liquidity risk framework is reviewed and with an agreed 2bn of committed term currency denominated assets with liabilities approved by ALCO and the Board on an annual facilities which pre-fund maturing term denominated in the same foreign currency basis.
Liquidity reporting is undertaken weekly financing into 2009, and an additional 1.2bn and vice versa.
and circulated to senior members of Group Risk of retail savings deposits already raised in the and Group Finance.
The Group also has in place a number of committed liquidity facilities to support the Management of current economic conditions Operational risk Groups activities raising funds in foreign The Groups funding policies and management Operational risk is the potential risk of financial currencies at short notice.
These facilities have have been severely tested during the liquidity loss or impairment to reputation resulting from not been drawn upon during the year or problems that have emerged in the wholesale inadequate or failed internal processes and preceding year.
markets in the second half of 2007. systems, from the actions of people or from external events.
Liquidity risk Whilst the committees responsible for Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, even if it managing liquidity meet on a scheduled basis, Major sources of operational risk include: has adequate capital, does not have sufficient they are able to meet more frequently should outsourcing of operations: funds to meet the Groups obligations as they the need arise.
During September and October dependence on key suppliers: fall due.
A liquidity shortfall could be caused by 2007, a combination of the BSMC and ALCO IT security: many factors including: met on a daily basis to monitor the impact of internal and external fraud: a shortfall in wholesale market liquidity: the restricted market for wholesale funding implementation of strategic change: the withdrawal of customer deposits: and impacting global markets.
This joint committee regulatory non-compliance for example, the drawdown of customer borrowings and reviewed daily cash-flow and balance sheet mis-selling : and growth of the balance sheet.
positions and plans to finance the bank through process errors and external threats such as this period of extreme stress.
Whilst conditions the loss of a critical site.
Liquidity risk management within the Group eased somewhat towards the end of the year, considers both the overall balance sheet these daily liquidity updates continue to be The Groups business areas manage this risk structure and projected daily liquidity circulated to members of both BSMC and ALCO.
through appropriate controls and loss mitigation requirements, measuring the combined effect actions including insurance.
These actions of asset and liability maturity mismatches As noted earlier, the Group has also arranged include a balance of policies, appropriate across the Group and undrawn commitments a number of committed liquidity facilities that procedures and internal controls to ensure and other contingent obligations.
are available to assist in the maintenance of compliance with laws and regulations.
These are primarily used to detailed level, risk and control assurance is The day-to-day management of liquidity is the support the Groups non-sterling funding facilitated by Group Risk, in conjunction with line responsibility of Treasury, which provides activities and are available in a range of managers, on the risks and control effectiveness funding to, and takes surplus funds from, each currencies.
These facilities have not been within their areas of responsibility.
of the Groups businesses as required.
drawn upon during the year or preceding year.
For many years we have worked to diversify In addition, specialist support functions Liquidity policy is approved by the Board and our funding base and build strong provide expertise in risk areas such as agreed within a framework established by the relationships.
This proved very beneficial when information security, health and safety, Financial Services Authority FSA.
The scope we raised 2.5bn in private funding compliance, fraud management, security and nature of the Groups holdings of readily transactions in September and October, at a and business continuity management.
realisable liquid assets are always in excess of time when the public wholesale markets were regulatory guidelines, after allowing for the effectively closed.
A process is in place for the recognition, potential outflow of funds.
capture, assessment analysis and reporting of The Group has maintained its careful risk events.
This process is used to help identify Liquidity risk is assessed by means of a approach to funding and, in particular, had where process and control requirements are framework that determines the appropriate continued to invest in the network and build up needed to reduce the recurrence of risk events.
level of liquidity available at short-notice in retail deposits.
We also continued to pursue a conjunction with a series of stress tests and policy of pre-funding our net new lending and The Group has met the eligibility criteria for the scenario analyses.
The framework and of holding sufficient liquidity for at least four adoption of the standardised approach to scenarios were developed in conjunction with months of continued operations without operational risk and assesses relevant income Group Risk and approved by ALCO and the recourse to the wholesale money markets.
At from prescribed business lines such as Retail Board.
Included within the scenarios are specific the year end these liquidity balances totalled Banking, Retail Brokerage and Commercial counterparty, Group and financial market 8.4bn 2006: 7.8bn.
For each business line, the Groups events that might, but are unlikely to occur.
average annual published relevant income In response to the unfolding liquidity crunch we based on the last three years is calculated.
The parameters and scenarios selected were took a number of steps to reduce immediate Capital is held to support operational risk for each determined through a combination of historical funding needs.
We increased mortgage pricing business line at prescribed rates from 12% to data analysis and professional judgement to to contain volumes and protect margin: raised 18% of its average annual relevant income.
generate the most severe possible liquidity savings pricing to attract additional customer drain.
The stress tests and scenario analyses deposits: reduced the level of mortgage Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE risks also consider the time period over which the portfolio acquisitions: and increased focus on SEE risks are identified and considered by liquidity demands are most strong, typically one lower risk lending.
The Group continues to the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR week but also up to three months.
successfully fund the business, most recently team in the Group HR function within our risk management and control policies.
