Risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Investment risk Caledonia has a risk management framework that provides a Investment risk occurs in respect of specific investment decisions, structured process for identifying, assessing and managing risks subsequent performance of an investment or concentration of associated with the companys business objectives and strategy.
exposure to an economic sector or geographical region.
In addition to financial, legal and market due diligence, External risk Caledonias investment appraisal includes a rigorous assessment External risks arise from political, legal, regulatory and economic of investee managements track record of success and commitment changes.
Failure to comply with regulations could result in the to growing their business.
All potential investments are presented company losing its listing and or being subjected to UK to Caledonias investment management committee, which corporation tax on its capital gains.
comprises executive directors and other senior managers, and The company seeks to operate within applicable legal and meets weekly.
Any individual investment of 20m or more requires regulatory frameworks.
A compliance committee meets weekly board approval.
and reviews Caledonias current business for regulatory compliance, Having made the investment decision, a process is put in as well as considering investment proposals from a compliance place for managing the relationship with the investee company perspective.
The board receives and reviews regular reports on the for the period through to realisation.
This will usually include board controls in place to prevent non-compliance of the company with representation by a Caledonia investment executive.
The executive rules and regulations.
will make regular reports to the investment management committee on issues relevant to the investments for which he Strategic risk or she is responsible and there is a process of cyclical reporting Strategic risks arise from the concept, design and implementation to the board.
of the companys business model and key decisions on investment Caledonia invests in a range of economic sectors and levels and capital allocations.
An inappropriate investment strategy geographical regions.
The portfolio is monitored monthly could result in poor returns for shareholders.
The board reviews against board approved guidelines to ensure that there is no strategy periodically.
Treasury and funding risk Treasury risks principally comprise counterparty risk, uncertainty in market prices and rates and the requirement to access adequate funds to meet investment needs or other obligations as they fall due.
The main funding risks faced by Caledonia are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
The level of these risks is addressed by the overall funding objective and the board regularly reviews and approves policies on the approach to each of these risks.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 23 Business review Risks and uncertainties Caledonias foreign exchange risk management policy allows The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable people is of for exposure to structural and transactional currency movements.
fundamental importance to Caledonias strategy and the loss In the event that there is an exit plan for a foreign currency of key staff could adversely affect investment returns.
The company denominated investment, a view will be taken of likely currency operates in a competitive industry and aims to remunerate staff movements over the period to expected exit and part or all of the in line with market practice, to provide development opportunities exposure may be hedged using foreign currency contracts or and to encourage staff motivation and retention.
A business continuity strategy is in place to ensure that The exposure to interest rate movements on treasury assets operations can continue in the event of disruption.
This strategy is managed through the use of term deposits and money market has been assessed against a detailed business impact analysis funds.
Where there are group borrowings, exposure to interest and is regularly tested.
rate movements is managed through the use of derivatives, such as caps and collars where appropriate.
Counterparty risk is managed through an approved list of counterparties with maximum aggregate exposures agreed by the board.
Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to executive directors and to the Group Treasurer.
A detailed report on liquid assets and cash flow projections is submitted to the investment management committee on a weekly basis.
Monthly reports on Caledonias funding position and cash flow forecasts are considered by the board.
Operational risk Operational risk arises from potentially inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors.
Inadequate or failed processes could result in the misappropriation of assets, loss of income and debtor receipts and mis-reporting of NAV per share.
The board regularly reviews statements on internal controls and procedures and subjects the books and records of the company to an annual audit.
24 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
