OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Risks R RI IS SK K M MA AN NA AG GE EM ME EN NT T F FR RA AM ME EW WO OR RK K Over many years the Group has The Group has a strong risk management framework and compliant culture.
The risk built a unique understanding of management and compliance teams are supported by an independent internal audit function provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte.
its markets and developed a thorough, methodical approach The principal risk management groups and their responsibilities are: that is called Risk.
This C Ca at tt tl le es s p pl lc c B Bo oa ar rd d requires unrelenting awareness Takes overall responsibility for the Groups internal Determines the Groups appetite for risk and control of risk in everything control systems, reporting on their effectiveness and Determines an appropriate categorisation of risks defining the framework for, and influencing the Determines what types of risk are acceptable and the Group does.
It ensures that culture of, risk management across the Group unacceptable Approves major decisions affecting the Groups risk risks are accurately identified and profile or exposure managed conservatively.
Produces a Corporate Governance Report for shareholders as part of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, drawing on advice from the Audit Committee, Risk Management Group, senior R RI IS SK K M MA AN NA AG GE EM ME EN NT T I IN N T TH HE E management and internal external auditors N NO ON N- -S ST TA AN ND DA AR RD D S SE EC CT TO OR R A Au ud di it t C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e The Groups appetite for risk is a carefully calibrated part of the business model, On behalf of the Board: Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including financial, operational, regulatory aligned to strategic and corporate and compliance controls objectives.
The aim is not to avoid or Calls on external auditors, external risk assurance eliminate risk, it is to do business providers and executive directors to attend meetings as required successfully.
The markets in which the Receives reports from the Risk Management Group Group operates potentially expose it to Receives an annual risk management report from the higher credit risk than those faced by the risk and compliance director financial services industry generally.
The R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t G Gr ro ou up p relatively narrow range of the Groups products and services primarily lending Reviews the key Group risks and controls identified, and the effectiveness of those controls and the selling of general insurance also Reports to the Audit Committee twice yearly on risk means that the Group is more exposed to management certain external factors.
R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e The Board accepts these risks on the Reviews the risks identified on the WFS divisional condition that they are controlled in a way risk registers, the effectiveness of controls and that enables the Group to price its progress on risk treatment plans products commensurately.
Reviews the risk log and associated documents to identify new or emerging risks to the business and Providing non-standard credit is not a escalating material risks Reports to the board of WFS business for the uncommitted.
It requires deep knowledge of the market and a very robust and iterative approach to risk The risk, compliance and internal audit functions are complementary: together they management and regulatory compliance.
provide effective protection for the Groups businesses: Underpinning the Groups long-term R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t d fide ep pa ar rt tm me en nt t commitment to the non-standard sector is a Group-wide approach to the Defines and co-ordinates the Group-wide risk Ensures internal audit and compliance activity is management strategy and framework aligned to the corporate risk profile and provides management of risk of all types.
It is appropriate testing and monitoring hands-on, not just involving dedicated Maps Group and subsidiary risks specialist teams, but forming part of the Supports the Risk Management Group in its reporting of risk management and the effectiveness organisations culture: the Groups risk of controls programme is embedded into all processes.
Advises on good practice, encourages risk awareness and co-ordinates training Supports business change management Prepares, maintains and tests business continuity plans C Co om mp pl li ia an nc ce e d fide ep pa ar rt tm me en nt t Manages the Groups relationships with regulators Monitors regulatory changes, advises on implications and compliance with legal and regulatory and sets compliance policies and strategy requirements Maps and reports on compliance risk Monitors and reports on compliance Manages the customer services and legal services departments I In nt te er rn na al l a au ud di it t D fide el lo oi it tt te e Provides independent Group-wide risk-based Reviews the effectiveness of risk management assurance and advice controls, shares good practice and recommends improvements where necessary Reports to management and the Audit Committee 17 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Risks continued Fig 1.
The Groups approach to risk management is hands-on, not just involving dedicated specialist RISK IDENTIFICATION PROCESS teams, but forms part of the organisations culture.
C Co ol ll le ea ag gu ue e a an nd d b bu us si in ne es ss s a as s u us su ua al l r ri is sk k i id fide en nt ti if fi ic ca at ti io on n R Ri is sk k F Fo or ru um m Assesses the central risk log R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e W WF FS S o on nl ly y Assesses recommendations from the Risk Forum and reviews the WFS Register L Le ew wi is s B Bo oa ar rd d C CI IF F B Bo oa ar rd d Updates the subsidiary register Updates the subsidiary register and has quarterly reviews W WF FS S B Bo oa ar rd d and has quarterly reviews with Risk Management Updates the divisional registers with Risk Management R Ri is sk k M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t G Gr ro ou up p Updates to the Group Risk Monitor A Au ud di it t C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e The Group maintains risk registers and risk R RI IS SK K I ID fide EN NT TI IF FI IC CA AT TI IO ON N R RI IS SK K A AS SS SE ES SS SM ME EN NT T A AN ND D M MO ON NI IT TO OR RI IN NG G maps for the following parts of the The Groups risk identification process is Each part of the Group has a defined risk business: Cattles plc, CIF, Lewis and WFS outlined in Fig 1. matrix indicating how risks are rated and which include functional risk registers for outlining the management and approval When new potential or emerging risks are Financial Control, Human Resources, arrangements for each level of risk.
Risks identified, they are referred either directly Health & Safety, Information Security are rated in terms of impact, likelihood and to the Risk Management team or through Management, Fraud Risk Management, control effectiveness, and the prioritisation the Risk Forum, which brings together Credit Quality and Credit Risk, Regulatory scales defining the risk assessment around 12 colleagues, referred to as risk Risk, Shopacheck, Operational Risk are updated annually.
Compliance champions, who represent all functions in Customer Sales and Service Centres, and internal audit reviews include the business.
New risks are added to the Operational Risk Branch Operations, assessments of the effectiveness of the central risk register, which is reviewed at Welcome Car Finance Retail and controls for all risks in the risk registers.
each meeting of the Risk Management Welcome Car Finance Procurement.
This committee, comprising The Group aims to keep risk identification In addition to these permanent risk directors and heads of all functions, and management processes as registers, ad hoc registers are maintained debates each new risk and votes within straightforward as possible to maximise for all key projects and initiatives, such as clear terms of reference on which are the engagement and understanding of all the current implementation of the new sufficiently material to warrant being colleagues.
About half a dozen escalated to the WFS board.
If the risk Risk registers are presented in a consistent project risk registers are currently in affects the Group as a whole, it is further and uniform manner across the Group, operation.
debated at the WFS board to decide with risks arranged in residual risk priority whether escalation to the Risk The Cattles risk register is reviewed twice a order.
Considerable effort is put into visual Management Group is required.
year by the Risk Management Group, presentation, using risk maps and which reports to the Audit Committee.
The dashboards to help managers see the risk risk registers for WFS, Lewis and CIF are picture more clearly.
These visualisations formally updated three times a year and also help to show how the pattern of risk presented to the relevant subsidiary board.
evolves over time, as risks are modified Functional registers are updated quarterly by external events or the Groups actions with the senior management of the to control them.
The risk maps and relevant function and agreed with the prioritisations for the Group, WFS, Lewis relevant board director.
Project registers and CIF are independently validated by are updated according to the nature of the Deloitte internal audit team.
the project, generally no less than once a quarter.
18 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Through dashboards, risks are monitored The Group Board sets standards for credit All key data provided by loan applicants income, against pre-set tolerances.
These risk management throughout the Group.
outgoings and identity is validated through documented proof, supplemented with tolerances are set by functional This is achieved through a combination comprehensive fraud checks.
management and agreed with Risk of governance structures, credit risk Management.
Where tolerances are policies and credit systems and processes.
exceeded, appropriate risk treatment plans It delegates authority for credit policy are invoked.
The Group uses the TERRA risk to the subsidiary boards.
methodology for risk treatment: Transfer, Welcome Financial Services Exploit, Reduce, Retain, Avoid.
The WFS board determines credit policy Risks and the Groups actions to mitigate by considering and authorising them are scored subjectively.
Ultimately, recommendations proposed by a subthese can only be determined using committee responsible for evaluating judgement.
However, technology provides credit policy and product profitability.
the opportunity to make judgements more WFS has a credit quality department systematic, objective, robust and responsible for ensuring that asset quality consistent.
The Group is currently is maintained within specified parameters.
implementing and testing bespoke The department is independent of enterprise risk management software to operational management and has no help the risk champions throughout the responsibility for income generation.
The business to identify potential risks, then department is subject to internal audit log, mitigate and track them as they review on a regular basis.
This review emerge and develop.
The system balances covers areas such as integrity of scorecards materiality of risks, and therefore the scale and the quality of the departments of controls, against commercial reporting.
It provides a highly visible and iterative approach, and should further In Welcome Finance, the principal increase the consistency and protections against credit risk are the responsiveness of the Groups risk effectiveness of its bespoke credit scoring management.
and underwriting processes, and the way in which it maintains close customer C CA AT TE EG GO OR RI IS SI IN NG G R RI IS SK KS S relationships through its national network The Group has identified the key risks that of local community branches.
could impede or frustrate delivery of its Applications for advances come from a objectives.
These key risks, and how they variety of channels, including national are mitigated and managed, are described brokers and dealers, and Welcome Finance below.
ensures consistency of credit quality by C Cr re ed di it t r ri is sk k scoring and underwriting applications This is the risk to earnings or capital centrally.
No one has the authority to arising from a counterpartys failure to overwrite a credit score.
meet the terms of a contract with one Before a new loan is approved, an of the Groups businesses where funds appropriate credit risk assessment of the have been advanced to them.
The main customer is made.
This includes using exposure to credit risk relates to the bespoke scorecards tailored to the Groups portfolios of loans and receivables.
non-standard market based on Welcome The Group acknowledges that the risk Finances own data, ensuring compliance arising from changes in credit quality with affordability tests and obtaining and the recoverability of loans is inherent satisfactory proofs of both income and in the nature of its business.
The applicants risk rating is changes in customers credit quality assessed by a combination of the arising from a general deterioration scorecard and policy rules and a product in economic conditions in the UK, such is allocated according to that risk.
All key as higher interest rates, higher data such as income and identity is unemployment levels or house price validated through documented proof, reductions, could affect the recoverability supplemented with electronic checking.
and value of the Groups loans and The comprehensive fraud checks use the receivables.
latest fraud prevention technology and a national fraud-sharing database.
The The objective of credit risk management introduction of DETECT software designed is to enable the Group to achieve to mitigate the risk of application fraud appropriate reward while keeping this has been a great success in identifying and risk exposure in line with its declared risk eliminating a significant volume of appetite.
19 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Risks continued Customers ability to afford their loan If a customers financial difficulties prove The performance of branches is closely managed repayments is assessed during the sales to be longer-term, management of the to ensure that the level of customers arrears is well-controlled.
process, taking into account their level of account is transferred to a Local Collection income in comparison to their outgoings.
Unit where an account manager will Secured loans are underwritten on the agree a new repayment plan more suited same basis as unsecured loans, with to the individuals circumstances and emphasis placed on assessing and revised ability to repay.
It is at this stage in verifying a customers ability to repay and the collections process, when the business not on the equity in their property.
A legal is seeking to recover the outstanding charge is nevertheless registered on the balance from the customer and would customers property as experience shows no longer consider the customer for that this leads to customers placing a additional credit, that the loan is higher priority on meeting their loan considered to be impaired and subject repayments.
At the time a loan is paid out, to an appropriate level of provision.
all Welcome Finance customers must be in The Groups long-established target is employment and have set up a direct debit to maintain Welcome Finance instalment from a bank account to repay the loan.
arrears at 8-10% of receivables and it The majority of customers are managed has consistently operated within or by the extensive branch network and slightly below this range for many years.
After loans are paid out, At 31 December 2007 the level was customers are assigned to a customer 7.0% 2006: 7.4%.
Data from Welcome account manager in their nearest Finances bespoke scorecards continues community branch.
Establishing and to confirm the belief that the 8-10% target maintaining close personal relationships is appropriate for the risk appetite.
Over with customers is a fundamental strength time, as previously reported, the Group in Welcome Finances ability to achieve expects instalment arrears to return robust credit quality, because it enables gradually to within the target range them to help customers promptly because of a change in product mix should they encounter difficulties with towards unsecured personal loans.
Credit risk in Shopacheck is managed The customer account managers in the through regular analysis of customers Operational Branches are responsible for ability to make repayments, and their managing a customers schedule of credit limits are amended accordingly.
The performance of customer The Lewis Group account managers, and each branch as a Lewis was one of the founders of the debt whole, is specifically measured in terms purchase industry in the UK and recorded of the level of customers arrears, and the industrys first ever 10 million plus relevant management information is acquisition in the late 1990s.
This available on a daily basis in each branch.
experience of the debt purchase market, Summary information is available to together with the business long history senior operational management to Maintaining close customer in contingent debt collecting, has provided monitor collections performance senior management with significant relationships is central to and arrears at both a branch and knowledge and data with which to price Welcome Finance achieving portfolio level.
In addition, the credit quality and finance Lewis has an established and experienced teams continuously review and analyse Risk team, responsible for performing the arrears statistics in order that any detailed analytical work needed to corrective steps can be identified and segment and value portfolios.
The pricing implemented should any adverse trends models used have evolved over time and are in either a particular location or product capable of performing multi-dimensional line develop.
analysis of very large portfolios in The Operational Branches manage a sophisticated, yet efficient way.
customers accounts whilst they are up-toThe Risk team works under the close date or experiencing early, casual arrears.
supervision of the Lewis board and If an account misses two payments, it is submits draft bids to the Pricing passed to a Local Management Branch.
Committee, comprising the Lewis directors These branches comprise specialist and the head of risk, for consideration and collectors who work with customers to approval.
Any bids which exceed the ensure regular payments resume so as to Committees mandate are subject to the enable the account to be transferred back approval by the Group Board.
to the Operational Branch and to prevent the account from falling into more serious arrears.
20 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 After the operations team have established T Tr re ea as su ur ry y r ri is sk k Cattles Invoice Finance provides exceptionally high collection targets at an individual collector The Group has categorised treasury risk levels of client contact key to controlling arrears.
level, the Risk team is also responsible for into its constituent elements liquidity monitoring collections performance postrisk, interest rate and currency risks being acquisition.
A suite of reports has been market risks, counterparty credit risk, developed to assist in this monitoring concentration risk and capital risk each process.
The performance of each portfolio of which is discussed below: is monitored and reported on a monthly Liquidity risk basis with major portfolios being subject This is the risk to earnings or capital to additional formal review meetings on a arising from an inability to meet quarterly basis.
Data from actual obligations when they become due, collections is fed back into the valuation without incurring unexpected or models as appropriate.
It includes the risk of Cattles Invoice Finance inability to manage unplanned decreases CIF benefits from a well-diversified or changes in funding sources and also any portfolio and robust underwriting criteria.
failure to recognise and address changes It has a defined process, contained within in market conditions that could affect the its credit policy, for the approval of invoice Groups ability to liquidate assets quickly, financing facilities to prospective clients.
with minimum value loss, if necessary.
A prospective client is assessed in relation There is a risk that funding for expansion to the suitability of the security offered may not be available or may prove supported by professional valuations expensive particularly when the Groups where necessary, the robustness of their lending business is growing particularly systems to provide all the information strongly.
Failures in the Groups capital necessary to establish and maintain a planning framework could result in the facility, and the availability and content of Group lacking sufficient capital to support financial information detailing their current and anticipated business activity current trading position and future and impact adversely on capital projections.
In addition, information from repayment and dividend payment.
To external credit reference agencies in manage these risks, the Treasury & Risk relation to the directors and contracting Director and his team continuously parties of the prospective client is also forecast funding headroom, monitor the obtained.
funding markets and seek to increase As well as establishing appropriate headroom well ahead of need.
underwriting criteria and systems, The Group funds its businesses through providing personal attention to clients is syndicated and bilateral facilities with key to controlling arrears.
CIF has major UK and international banks and structured itself in order to provide through private and public debt offerings.
exceptionally high levels of client contact The current syndicated and bilateral and service, with each client manager facilities have original maturities of up to handling only 25-30 client relationships.
In order to continue to fund the addition, the business has a dedicated expected growth in the Groups team of auditors performing site reviews receivables these facilities will typically be at clients to ensure there is ongoing renewed and or increased on their adequacy in the clients systems and that termination.
the business of the client has remained consistent with that indicated at the The Group has a successful track record in commencement of the facility.
However, fundraising activity, which has continued these precautions cannot eliminate all risk during 2007.
Equity placement activity in of default or fraud: in 2007, the Group 2007 has helped to reduce the Groups judged it prudent to provide for defaults gearing to 4.6 times tangible net assets at on three accounts, increasing the loan loss the year-end, comfortably within the ratio to 2.2% 2006: 1.2%.
Companys covenant limit of six times: and by increasing shareholders funds, the equity placement increased the Groups total borrowing capacity by some 773 million.
21 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Risks continued The Group maintains a mixture of longAt 31 December 2007, around 85% The Group has a long-standing term and short-term committed facilities 2006: 80% of the Groups borrowings and consistent approach that are designed to ensure that the Group were protected against future interest has sufficient available funds for current rate volatility, either through fixed rate to funding and liquidity the operations and planned growth.
borrowing in the case of public bonds, average maturity of borrowing private placement loan notes, debentures, Details of current bank facilities and facilities is around five years, finance leases, hire purchase and some their maturity dates are set out in Fig 12 compared to three years other loans or by using interest rate swaps on page 39. to protect floating rate bank borrowings.
The Groups funding includes: As a result, based on borrowings at 31 December 2007, a hypothetical Syndicated and bilateral bank facilities 1% change in the three-month LIBOR Public bond issues would only change the Groups annual US private placements interest expense after taking account Overdraft facilities of any hedge ineffectiveness by around The Group has a long-standing and 1.9 million 2006: 2.4 million.
conservative approach to funding and This long-standing treasury strategy to liquidity.
The average maturity of the limit exposure to interest rate movements Groups total borrowing facilities is around has helped to provide the Group with a five years, whilst the average maturity of stable funding platform and greater the receivables book is shorter, at certainty and control over future funding approximately three years.
It is not the policy of the Group to Existing and forecast headroom levels are trade in such financial hedging reported and reviewed at each Board instruments.
The level of protection meeting.
Whilst there is no set minimum contracted for at any particular time level of headroom, under normal would not exceed the Groups exposure to circumstances the intention would be to actual or projected borrowings, except in maintain a minimum of around six the event of short-term timing differences.
Currency risk The Groups risk management programme Certain funding received from banks or aims to limit adverse external impacts on other sources may not be in sterling.
This financial performance by using financial creates a potential exposure to the risk of instruments such as interest rate and adverse foreign exchange rate movements.
cross-currency swaps to fix interest rates At 31 December 2007 the Group had a and hedge foreign currency denominated US $110 million unsecured loan note due borrowings.
The Board has delegated for redemption at par in two parts in 2008 responsibility for the Groups treasury risk and 2011, a further US $75 million management policies, within limits, to the unsecured loan note due for redemption Treasury & Risk Director.
These policies are at par in two parts in 2011 and 2013 and implemented directly by the treasury team a 6 million unsecured loan note due for on the Groups behalf.
The team has a risk redemption at par in 2013. management policy setting out specific It is the policy of the Group to manage guidelines for managing interest rate, the risk of exposure to adverse foreign foreign exchange and credit risks and exchange rate movements by the use of the use of financial instruments in relation financial hedging instruments.
to achieve this, all foreign currency Interest rate risk denominated borrowings are immediately The Group has minimal risk to income swapped into sterling at the start of the from changes in market interest rates as related facility agreement for the term of almost all customer lending is at rates of the borrowings.
interest which are fixed over the term of Counterparty credit risk the contract.
At any point in time, Cattles has an Facilities provided by banks and other exposure to its counterparties arising from investors are a mixture of fixed rate and treasury activities.
Management of floating rate funding.
Floating rate counterparty credit risk is assisted by borrowings are exposed to the risk of ensuring that derivative counterparties rising interest rates which the Group and other counterparties that hold the manages by the use of appropriate Groups funds on deposit or credit financial hedging instruments, primarily balances on bank accounts should carry a interest rate swaps.
As a result, the Group long-term credit rating of higher than BBB, has a relatively low risk to changes in or equivalent.
market interest rates for current borrowings.
22 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 In addition, interest rate and semi-annual or annual basis.
In addition, Fig 2. cross-currency derivatives with any single the gearing level is monitored internally GEARING CALCULATION counterparty would not, under normal on a monthly basis and is included in the 2 20 00 07 7 2006 m m m circumstances, be allowed to exceed 25% Groups forecasts.
1 Group borrowings 2 2, 3 31 19 9.. 3 3 1,754.8 of the Groups total interest rate Adjustment 1 18 8.. 0 0 27.9 The Group aims to maintain the capital derivatives.
Borrowings for gearing calculation 2 2, 3 30 01 1.. 3 3 1,726.9 base which includes share capital, share Concentration risk premium, other reserves and retained Net assets as per balance sheet 5 59 95 5.. 1 1 416.9 The Group is careful to avoid building a earnings so that, at all times, the gearing Less: goodwill and other 2 concentration of facilities with a relatively level is below the covenant limit.
In doing intangible assets 9 97 7.. 2 2 80.1 small group of funding partners.
In order so, due regard is given to relevant forecast Tangible net assets 4 49 97 7.. 9 9 336.8 to avoid such a concentration the Group information.
Gearing 4 4.. 6 6 t ti im me es s 5.1 times has established funding in the bank, S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c r ri is sk k 1 As per note 22 of the accounts public bond and US private placement 2 This is the risk to earnings or capital As per notes 14 and 15 of the accounts markets.
Bank facilities currently include a arising from adverse business decisions, or syndicate of over 30 banking partners.
It is improper or inadequate implementation the Groups intention that funding with of those decisions.
This risk is a function any individual counterparty should not of the Groups corporate strategic goals, normally exceed 20% of total Group the business strategies developed funding.
to achieve those goals, the resource The risk from a concentration of customer deployed against them and the quality credit risk is limited due to the relatively of the implementation.
The resource low value of each customers debt and to considerations should include operations, the Groups large and unrelated customer support and communications.
To mitigate the risks relating to specific Capital risk strategic projects the Group has a range of The Groups objective in managing capital project risk registers, and members of the is to maintain a strong capital base to Risk Management department are closely support current operations and planned involved in the project teams and or growth and to provide for an appropriate steering committees for any such level of dividend payment to shareholders.
For example, the current project to replace the back office IT The Group is not subject to external systems in WFS has a very robust regulatory capital requirements.
It is, governance structure including its own however, required under certain of its risk committee reporting directly to the funding agreements, to ensure that its board.
The output of this committee feeds gearing ratio does not exceed six times.
directly into the strategic and commercial For this purpose gearing is calculated as decisions around the programmes go nothe ratio of consolidated borrowings to go review by the WFS board.
The precise definition of borrowings used in the calculation O Op pe er ra at ti io on na al l t tr ra an ns sa ac ct ti io on na al l r ri is sk k varies according to the funding This is the risk to earnings or capital agreement, but is broadly consistent with arising from problems with service or that disclosed in the consolidated balance product delivery.
It can stem from failures sheet.
Adjustment is made to exclude of process, systems and people.
This risk is items such as accrued interest, a function of internal controls, information unamortised discount and fees, and net systems, employee integrity and operating off certain bank deposits.
It affects all products and assets are based on net assets equivalent services.
to total shareholders equity less goodwill The Groups approach to managing and other intangible assets.
operational risk is a highly proactive and The calculation of the gearing ratio at iterative one.
For example, each function 31 December 2007 and 2006 is shown within WFS has a dedicated risk manager, in Fig 2. who works closely with the senior management team in identifying, Throughout 2007, the Company complied assessing and monitoring risks at a with the gearing covenant and the functional level.
Colleagues within HR, reduction in the ratio is attributable to finance, credit quality and branch the equity placing in March 2007 which operations have their own bespoke risk strengthened the Groups capital base.
registers that are reviewed quarterly with Depending on the specific funding their risk manager.
Each functional risk agreement, reporting against this register is formally presented to, and covenant is carried out on a quarterly, approved by, the relevant board director.
23 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Risks continued Business Continuity Risk existing relationships, expose the business Welcome Financial Services has embedded Loss of information and communications to regulatory censure or financial loss, or Treating Customers Fairly principles into its culture and values training.
technology ICT infrastructure or key impair the value of the Groups brands.
business premises would adversely impact Reputation risk is inherent throughout the the Groups ability to do business, and is a business and includes a responsibility to risk that is taken extremely seriously.
To exercise appropriate caution when dealing mitigate it the Group has a business with customers, shareholders, markets continuity management BCM system.
This is endorsed by the Group Board and Cattles guards its reputation jealously and underpinned by a clear BCM policy signedtrains customer-facing colleagues to off by the Treasury & Risk Director, who is protect it.
For example, in WFS the FSAs the BCM sponsor on the Group Board.
The Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative is policy states that the industry-recognised supported.
WFS has established a good practice guidelines set out by the Customer Experience Group, chaired by its Business Continuity Institute are followed, director of customer experience.
This and that the Group aligns itself to the group of senior managers is responsible British Standard for Business Continuity for promoting a customer-focused culture Management, BS25999.
within the business, and ensuring that the Recognising the Groups increasing principles and expectations are firmly reliance on telephony and computer embedded into the corporate culture.
systems, the significant resources of WFS has established principles in relation third-party specialists under formal ICT to TCF, so as to ensure it considers the disaster recovery arrangements are used.
needs of customers when products are Third-party specialists are also contracted developed and sold, when after sales to cover the loss of any key business service processes, complaint handling premises.
procedures and marketing materials Compliance and legal risk are designed and when colleague Failure or inability to comply with the laws, remuneration policies are set.
regulations or codes relating to the In each of the Groups businesses, financial services industry can lead to well-developed procedures for resolving fines, public reprimands and enforced customer complaints and queries are suspension of operations and in extreme in place.
cases, withdrawal of authorisation to operate.
The Groups dedicated In the debt recovery commission market compliance function has implemented there are published league tables of debt controls and systems to monitor and collection performance: Lewis high manage these risks.
These include ranking in these tables confirms that monitoring regulatory and legal changes, its collection strategies are effective.
advising on implications and setting To protect its own reputation and those compliance policies and strategy.
The of its clients it has a strict policy of using Group identifies and manages legal risk only ethical collection methods, and as a through effective use of its internal and member of the Credit Services Association external legal advisers.
The Company it adheres to the Associations code of Secretary and Legal Counsel is responsible conduct.
for providing the support necessary to The Groups Corporate Responsibility CR identify, manage and control legal risk programme also plays an important role in across the Group.
how the Group effectively manages The Groups compliance monitoring reputation risk.
It generates the most processes are designed to ensure that value for business performance and operating licences are not put at risk reputation by being commercially and and that insurance products are sold operationally aligned to business strategy.
in accordance with FSA regulations.
The Groups CR activities are focused on Compliance is continually monitored, the three cornerstones of the CR strategy reported to senior management and being a responsible financial services the WFS board, and improvements made organisation, a good people business to processes where appropriate.
At R Re ep pu ut ta at ti io on n r ri is sk k the same time the Group recognises its This is the risk to earnings or capital commitment to engage with stakeholders arising from negative public opinion.
This across a wide range of issues and to could affect the Groups ability to establish meet their needs and expectations as new relationships or services or to sustain well as possible.
24 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 A Ad dv vi is si in ng g a a c cu us st to om me er r i in n o ou ur r W We el lc co om me e C Ca ar r F Fi in na an nc ce e 25 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 s sh ho ow wr ro oo om m i in n L Lu ut to on n..
