qxd 27 3 08 03:11 Page 24 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL KPI SUMMARY EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHANGE IN STRATEGY EXPLAINED FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key Risks UK LIFE AND PENSIONS FRIENDS PROVIDENT INTERNATIONAL Changes to the distribution landscape Increased regulation materially impacts costs, capital We seek to build long-term relationships with distributors.
requirements, distribution, regulatory responsibility We have secured places on many best advice and multi-tie or the market for products panels with leading firms and innovative new entrants.
We The implementation of directives and other changes in have attracted all types of distributors by delivering excellent regulation is monitored, seeking to identify opportunities service, products and technology.
We monitor developments and ensure timely, compliant and cost effective solutions.
in the distribution sector and seek to position ourselves in an Detailed analyses of the impact on distribution relationships appropriate way that plays to these strengths.
and product offerings are undertaken to determine the required changes in distribution and product strategies.
Competitors develop more advanced IT solutions and service capability Reliance on key territories, products or distribution Our operating platforms are highly regarded and our structure partners for business is designed for continuous development to be achieved.
We Diversification across territories, business lines and aim to retain our reputation for service and technology and distribution partners allows us to take advantage of we monitor competitor activity carefully.
opportunities to secure business volumes and profitability and respond to regulatory and or legislative change and Changes in volume or profitability in key market competitor activity.
segments or emergence of new markets We monitor our relative product range and competitive position Expansions into new territories do not produce and analyse our experience of policy claims and lapses.
We the expected results use this information to re-price our products or develop new We plan our entry into any new territory by looking at the ones, targeting those markets that we see as most likely to expected business volumes and mix, dealing with highgrow and to be profitable.
For example, our recent strategic calibre reputation partners, and considering the regulatory review has given us a focus on protection business and group environment and requirements.
Our emphasis is on business pensions where no initial commission is paid.
with strong margins supported by excellent customer service.
Changes or volatility in UK and global economic factors Availability of cash or capital restrict new business growth Changes in interest rates, house prices, earnings and price The business is inherently more profitable than its UK parent inflation and the availability of credit can all affect consumers company.
For example, in 2007, its internal rate of return disposable income.
We are not able to control the external was 17.8% and cash payback was 6 years.
New business economic environment but we monitor these factors and so strain is therefore more quickly recovered than in the UK.
we are able to adapt our approach to the market and our Management Information is in place to track and forecast expense base to help us meet our targets and deliver on our cash consumption from new business.
FPIs cash and capital commitments to our different stakeholders.
needs can be met through its parent company and the business is confident that FPIs growth plans can be funded.
Implementation of our revised strategy An experienced team, led by representatives of the most Financial strength of parent company senior management, is implementing the revised strategy.
FPIs ability to gain regulatory and product licences in some Plans are being thoroughly assessed for risk and tested territories is subject to the financial strength of its parent against a range of economic and investment scenarios to company, either in terms of credit rating or presence within help ensure that the strategy is robust, well founded and the FTSE100 index of listed companies.
The current credit capable of leading the refocused business forward.
We and insurance financial strength ratings are considered are seeking to ensure our people are engaged with, and sufficient to maintain the territorial licences we have obtained sympathetically led through, the implementation process in recent years.
Downgrades from the current levels could put and that key skills and experience are retained in this time pressure on FPIs ability to remain in some territories.
24 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 001-045. qxd:30349 Frontend.
qxd 27 3 08 03:11 Page 25 OPERATIONAL REVIEW KEY RISKS SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK FINANCIAL REVIEW LOMBARD F&C ASSET MANAGEMENT Regulation and or fiscal change materially impact Operational platforms costs, capital requirements, distribution, regulatory During 2007, investment administration services previously responsibility or the market for products outsourced to Mellon were brought back in-house and The implementation of directives and other legislative merged into one Investment Operations department.
This has changes is monitored, seeking to identify opportunities and allowed for greater management oversight and enhancement ensure timely, compliant and cost effective solutions.
Throughout 2008, a major Detailed analyses of the impact on distribution relationships programme is underway to consolidate the systems and and product offerings are undertaken to determine the processes on to a single platform and operating model.
required changes in distribution and product strategies.
Front office control processes Reliance on key territories, products or distribution During 2007 significant progress has been made in relation to partners for business the development and implementation of the new front office Diversification across territories, business lines and distribution systems, which has addressed the risk of having multiple partners allows us to take advantage of opportunities to legacy platforms.
An integrated systems platform is now in secure business volumes and profitability and respond to place for dealing and order management and decision support regulatory and or fiscal change and competitor activity.
Equivalent systems for fixed income and pre and post-trade compliance will be implemented in the Expansions into new territories do not produce first half of 2008.
In addition, a core risk platform was the expected results implemented for use by both the front office and Investment We plan our entry into any new territory by looking at Risk functions replacing multiple legacy risk services.
the expected business volumes and mix, dealing with high-calibre reputation distribution partners, and considering Market trends towards polarisation and the regulatory environment and requirements.
Our emphasis fiduciary management is on business with strong margins supported by excellent The trend, particularly in The Netherlands, towards Fiduciary customer service.
Management presents a business risk for the balanced institutional mandates managed by F&C but has also opened Mismatch of solutions and client expectations leads to up some new opportunities.
F&Cs own Fiduciary Services poor persistency, complaints or damage to reputation offering has already been launched for clients in The Due diligence on distribution partner firms helps ensure that Netherlands.
Throughout 2008 there will be increasing focus business is written through financially sound and appropriately on product development and distribution.
Our strategy is to distribute through independent intermediaries who are authorised in Risk of poor historical investment performance leading their respective markets, but where introducers or agents are to loss of key investment mandates used there are clear agreements on the scope of their Despite difficult market conditions in the second half of 2007, activities, and appropriate training and support programmes there was an improvement in investment performance are developed.
throughout the year with some notable areas of out-performance.
In 2008 there will be continued focus on Review of corporate strategy performance and the retention of key talent.
The Friends Provident Board has announced that it is looking to identify the appropriate strategy to maximise value for its Uncertainty and distraction arising from Friends shareholders while working closely with the management of Providents strategic intentions for F&C Lombard to preserve its independence and unique business Friends Providents January 2008 announcement creates a model.
This can be achieved through a range of strategies and risk of disruption to asset gathering and the stability of F&Cs the Board does not intend to rush into a disorderly process that human capital.
The F&C Board is working with the Board of damages the stability of the business.
The Board is however Friends Provident to find a solution that is in the best interests aware of the need to achieve stability and certainty as quickly of all shareholders and are proposing amendments to F&Cs as possible and to ensure that key skills and experience are remuneration plans to enhance retention value.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 25
