Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Risk Management For more information please visit www.
com 85 In this section you will nd: 86 Introduction 87 Management and controls 89 Management of key risks Identi cation, measurement and management of risk is a strategic priority for HBOS.
Peter Hickman Group Risk Director 86 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management The financial performance of the Group is affected by Introduction borrowers ability and willingness to repay amounts lent Identi cation, measurement and management of risk is a by the Group strategic priority for HBOS.
The Board has established a This is known as credit risk and more information about how we comprehensive framework covering accountability, oversight, manage credit risk and our credit exposures is set out on pages measurement and reporting to maintain high standards of risk 89 to 91. management throughout the Group.
The Group may be unable to meet its financial Key risks and uncertainties facing the Group obligations as they fall due or is unable to raise The key risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, which we suf cient funds to take full advantage of growth believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from opportunities expected results, are set out below.
These factors should not This is known as liquidity risk.
Further information about our be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of approach to managing liquidity risk is explained on pages all potential risks and uncertainties.
Each of the Divisions faces key risks and uncertainties in the The financial performance of the Group is affected execution of their strategy.
These are set out in the divisional by changes in external market factors such as sections of the Business Review where they can be read in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity conjunction with the Divisions strategy, and financial and and equity prices and the potential for customers operating performance.
to act in a manner which is inconsistent with The Groups earnings are affected by general economic business, pricing and hedging assumptions conditions in the markets in which we operate This is referred to as market risk.
Further information about The Groups earnings could be affected by deterioration our management of, and exposure to, market risk is set out in economic conditions in the UK, where the majority of on pages 91 to 95. the Groups earnings are generated, as well as in the other The Group may have insuf cient capital resources economies in which we operate.
In particular, signi cantly to meet the regulatory minimum requirements, to higher UK unemployment and or interest rates may reduce finance growth, or to support its credit rating borrowers ability to repay loans and may cause house prices Capital discipline is a key element of the Groups strategy.
to fall materially thereby reducing the collateral value on many Capital is a scarce resource and our task is to deploy it to of our loans.
An economic downturn may also reduce demand achieve sustainable returns and add value for our shareholders.
To mitigate we have developed a The financial performance of the Group may affect the ability diversi ed business model that operates in many different to generate suf cient capital.
This, together with a reduction in markets and cycles including, but not limited to, mortgages, the availability of capital from the capital markets, may affect the savings, corporate, small to medium enterprises, insurance Groups ability to meet the capital requirements of regulators or and investment both in the UK and increasingly in our chosen to have an acceptable capital structure to support the existing overseas markets.
The Groups approach to the management of capital is set out on pages 103 to 104.
Changes in financial markets may restrict the availability or increase the cost of funding to the Group.
Such changes could The Groups earnings may be affected by the potential impact on the margins we are able to achieve or constrain the for loss through adverse claims, expense and growth in our businesses.
To mitigate this we have developed a persistency experience, from both life and general well diversi ed funding and depositor base and would seek to insurance contracts pass on increased cost of funds where appropriate.
Insurance and investment risk and its management is described Future earnings growth and shareholder value creation in more detail on pages 99 to 102. depend on the Groups strategic decisions Operational risks exist in the normal course of the Signi cant resources are devoted to the formulation and Groups business implementation of our strategy which is described in the In a large organisation with many different processes, Chief Executives Report on pages 8 to 10.
If elements of the IT systems and colleagues, there is a risk that operational strategy do not deliver as planned, either as a result of internal losses can result.
factors such as poor implementation associated with strategic change, or external factors, such as competitor actions, the Groups earnings may grow more slowly or decline.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87 Examples of the sources of such risks include fraud, systems The Groups business and earnings can be affected reliability, human error, failure of key suppliers, IT security, by changes in financial services laws and regulations change management, operational outsourcing or failure to in each of the locations in which it operates comply with legislation or regulation.
Further information about Any signi cant regulatory changes could affect how the Group the management of operational risk is set out on page 102. conducts business and its financial performance.
Regulatory risk is explained in detail on page 102.
HBOS Board 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence 87 Group Chief Executive Divisional Executive Group Functions Audit Chief Executives Committee Committee supported by Group Capital Committee Group Divisional Risk Finance Committees Group Funding and Liquidity Director Share Market Activity Committee Divisional Risk Control Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee Committees Group Credit Risk Committee Group Market Risk Committee Group Group Risk Internal Group Insurance Risk Committee Director Audit Group Operational Risk Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Management and Controls control and approval of principal risk policies and standards.
Governance The Board is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness The governance model comprises a robust and embedded of the systems and controls.
The system of controls described committee structure that allows an ef cient and mutually in this section has been in place throughout the period to the supportive control environment across the Group.
The business date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It accords and control environments of St. Jamess Place plc and Invista with the Turnbull guidance on internal control and has also Real Estate Investment Holdings plc fall outwith the governance been reviewed by the Board speci cally for the purposes of this framework described in this section of the Annual Report and statement.
Within the Group, risk is managed in accordance Accounts.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite Risk Appetite and does so through an iterative process that aims to ensure HBOS uses risk appetite to describe: that the Groups approved business plan is consistent with the Boards appetite for risk.
the level of acceptable risk given the Groups appetite for earnings volatility, external stakeholder expectations and The strategy for managing risk is formulated by the Executive any other fide ned objectives such as paying dividends: and Committee and is informed through divisional and Group planning and key performance indicators, including monthly the types of risk the Group is prepared to accept in line financial and business performance reporting of variances with HBOS control environment and the market conditions against plan.
88 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued Key risks are identi ed and managed to achieve a balance The Risk Management Framework between risk and reward which is acceptable to the Board.
HBOS allocates speci c roles in the management of risk The Board carries out an annual strategic review of risk to executives and senior managers and to the Board and management, its appetite for risk and the Groups annual Executive Committees.
This is undertaken within an overall business plan.
This focus on aligning the taking of risk with the framework and strategy established by the Board.
The model achievement of business objectives means that the control is based on the concept of three lines of defence, as shown in system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
The Board also reviews the effectiveness of risk management Divisional management has primary responsibility for identifying through regular management information reporting.
and evaluating signi cant risks to the business and for designing Responsibility for risk is a key element of managers and operating suitable controls.
Internal and external risks are competencies at all levels.
Specialist Group and divisional assessed, including economic factors, control breakdowns, risk teams have been established where appropriate to assist disruption of information systems, competition and regulatory managers across the Group.
Specialist risk managers research requirements.
industry best practice and ensure that standards and policies The four Group Executive Risk Committees Group Credit Risk within the Group evolve in line with recognised risk management Committee, Group Market Risk Committee, Group Insurance practice.
Risk Committee and Group Operational Risk Committee Staff and systems resources are dedicated to ensuring that risk develop the policies and parameters within which Divisions management information is accurate, timely and relevant to the are required to manage risk.
The Committees provide central business.
oversight by reviewing and challenging the work of the Divisions own risk committees and considering the application of appropriate risk management techniques.
1st Line of Defence Risk Management Divisional Chief Executives Strategy Divisional Risk Specialists Performance Divisional Risk Committees Risk control 2nd Line of Defence Risk Oversight Group Chief Executive Executive Committee Centralised policy management Group Functions inc. Group Risk Independent oversight of risk and Group Finance Executive Risk Committees 3rd Line of Defence Risk Assurance Audit Committee Divisional Risk Control Committees Independent assurance Group Internal Audit Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 89 The specialist Group Risk function, reporting to the Group Risk Management of Key Risks Director, supports these Committees.
Its responsibilities are: The Group is committed to developing its risk management techniques and methodologies, both to maintain high standards to recommend Group policies, standards and limits: of risk management practice and to ful l the requirements of UK and international regulators.
to monitor compliance with those policies, standards and limits: The information set out below up to and including the section entitled General Insurance on page 102 forms an integral to provide leadership in the development and implementation part of the audited financial statements as described in the of risk management techniques: and Accounting Policies section of the Financial Statements on 89 page 160. to aggregate risks arising in the Divisions and to monitor the overall Group position independently from the Divisions Credit Risk own analysis.
Credit Risk is the risk of financial loss from counterpartys failure to settle financial obligations as they fall due.
Consideration of capital, liquidity and balance sheet The Group Credit Risk Committee, one of the Executive management is undertaken on an integrated basis.
All Risk Committees, is chaired by the Group Risk Director and capital and funding related activities are the responsibility comprises senior executives from across the business Divisions of the Group Capital Committee, supported by three suband Group Risk and Group Finance functions.
It meets monthly committees, which focus on the core aspects of overall Group and reviews the Groups lending portfolio, approves material requirements.
The Group Capital Committee is chaired by credit models and Group credit standards, limits and divisional the Group Finance Director and operates under delegated credit risk policies.
The Group Credit Risk Policy Statement is authority from the Board to oversee and manage the Groups approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Group Credit Balance Sheet and Capital in accordance with the Board Risk Committee also assists the Board in formulating the approved Group Business plan and within regulatory ratios.
Groups credit risk appetite in respect of key products and sectors.
In judging the effectiveness of the Groups controls, the Board reviews the reports of the Audit Committee and management.
Group Credit, a specialist support function within Group Risk, provides centralised expertise in the area of credit risk Certain responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee measurement and management techniques.
In addition to including ensuring that there is regular review of the adequacy reporting on the performance of each divisional portfolio to and ef ciency of internal control procedures.
This role the Group Credit Risk Committee, Group Credit exercises provides independent and objective assurance that there independent oversight over the effectiveness of credit risk is an appropriate control structure throughout the Group.
management arrangements and adherence to approved policies, standards and limits.
The Audit Committee, supported by Divisional Risk Control Committees, obtains assurance about the internal control and risk management environment through regular reports from Group Functions including Group Risk and Group Finance and Group Internal Audit.
It also considers external auditors reports.
90 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued Day-to-day management of credit risk is undertaken by and in governance arrangements to support operations within specialist credit teams working within each Division in the terms of the Basel II Accord.
These include principles compliance with policies approved by the Board.
Typically for development, validation and performance monitoring of functions undertaken by these teams include credit sanctioning, credit risk models.
The approval process for credit models portfolio management and management of high risk and is dependant upon materiality, with all models impacting the defaulted accounts and credit risk model build and governance.
regulatory capital calculation requiring approval by the Group Credit Risk Committee and those deemed material to the To mitigate credit risk, a wide range of policies and techniques Group being approved by the Group Capital Committee.
are used across the Group: Internal reporting has developed further in response to the for retail portfolios use is made of credit scoring software for introduction of improved rating tools.
In addition, behavioural scoring is used across the Group are now capable of assessing the risk to provide an assessment of the conduct of a customers pro le in terms of Probability of Default and Expected Loss accounts in granting extensions to, and setting limits for, and will do so under the Basel II environment going forward.
Affordability is a vitally important measure and is reviewed in combination with either application and or Financial instruments subject to credit risk behavioural scores.
Small business customers may be rated The table below sets out the Groups exposure to credit risk using scorecards in a similar manner to retail customers.
relating to financial instruments before taking account of collateral and other security.
Policyholder assets are excluded for corporate portfolios a full independent credit assessment from the analysis in the table as the underlying credit risks are of the financial strength of each potential transaction and or for the account of the policyholders and have no direct impact customer is undertaken, awarding an internal risk rating which on the Groups results, as described further on pages 99 to 102. is reviewed regularly.
The same approach is also used for A full reconciliation between the Groups consolidated balance larger SME small to medium enterprise customers: and sheet and financial instruments subject to credit risk is set out in Note 43 to the Financial Statements on page 217. within Treasury Division Treasury, which handles the Groups banking and sovereign related exposures, as well as Financial Financial the Groups structured credit bond ABS portfolio held for instruments instruments liquidity and proprietary purposes, focused credit risk policies subject subject to credit risk to credit risk are established and reviewed by Group Wholesale Credit As at As at Committee GWCC, a sub-committee of the Group Credit 31.12.2007 31.12.2006 Risk Committee.
Basel II Advanced IRB compliant models m m are used to rate banking and sovereign counterparties.
Loans and advances to customers 430,007 376,808 Structured credit bonds are reviewed individually by an Financial assets held for trading 54,681 49,139 independent credit function prior to purchase and an internal Debt securities 56,839 49,901 rating is applied to all exposures.
The rating assessment is Other financial assets 24,215 22,290 commensurate with, and often more stringent than, those of 565,742 498,138 the external credit rating agencies.
Additional thresholds and limits are applied by rating and asset class and, as part of Contingent liabilities and commitments 106,718 90,944 an ongoing portfolio review process, thorough surveillance Total 672,460 589,082 is performed covering each bond holding, supplemented by stress analyses conducted on a periodic basis.
An additional measure within the credit risk framework is the establishment of product, industrial sector and country limits to avoid excessive concentrations of risk.
Material portfolios, such as mortgages, have approved sub-sector limits to ensure that they remain within plan and tolerance for risk.
All such limits are set and monitored by the Group Credit Risk Committee.
Standards have been established across the Group for the management of credit risk.
All Divisions are committed to continuously improving credit risk management.
There continues to be investment in the development of credit risk rating tools, including enhancements to the portfolio risk measurement systems Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91 As at As at Loans and advances to customers 31.12.2007 31.12.2006 Loans and advances to customers are managed on a % % divisional basis.
Information about the credit quality of AAA 57.8 67.6 loans and advances to customers is set out on pages AA 25.8 18.2 21-22, 29-30, 47, 49, 53 and 56 in the Business Review A 12.9 8.2 and in Note 43 to the Financial Statements on page 217.
Below A 3.5 6.0 Financial assets held for trading Management of credit risk within Treasury portfolios relies The AAA proportion of the portfolio fell during 2007 due to two on obtaining detailed knowledge and understanding of the factors: i a reduction in Sovereign assets and ii an increase 91 assets and issuers it deals with.
As described above, a in the size of the portfolio comprising mainly AA and A assets, full credit analysis is undertaken and, based upon that, an thereby reducing the AAA proportion.
internal rating is derived which helps to establish a credit appetite for the issuer or asset intended to be acquired.
Other financial assets Other financial assets include cash and balances at central As Treasury manages the liquidity of the HBOS Group, its banks, items in the course of collection, derivative assets, mandate is to maintain a high quality credit portfolio and, loans and advances to banks and sundry financial assets.
in addition to the credit process mentioned above, it also Market Risk actively uses portfolio techniques to manage and monitor Market risk is fide ned as the potential loss in the quality of its portfolios, and to avoid concentration risk.
value or earnings of the organisation arising from: This includes the use of rating based thresholds, established changes in external market factors such as interest portfolio level thresholds, asset class limits and sub-limits.
rates interest rate risk, foreign exchange rates foreign There are also rules governing the types of assets that can be exchange risk, commodities and equities: and held within Treasurys Liquidity portfolios, Trading and Banking books and for individual ABS tranche sizes.
There are also the potential for customers to act in a manner which limits controlling the maximum weighted average life of assets.
is inconsistent with business, pricing and hedging assumptions.
Financial assets held for trading are almost exclusively investment grade investments with 99.6% 2006 99.5% The objectives of the Groups market risk framework are to of inter-bank and structured investment portfolios rated ensure that: A or above based on an internal credit ratings scale that market risk is taken only in accordance with is, in general, aligned with the ratings scales of the major the Boards appetite for such risk: credit ratings agencies Moodys, S&P and Fitch.
such risk is within the Groups financial capability, As at As at management understanding and staff competence: 31.12.2007 31.12.2006 % % the Group complies with all regulatory requirements AAA 51.5 51.9 relating to the taking of market risk: and AA 34.4 30.6 A 13.7 17.0 the quality of the Groups pro ts is appropriately managed and its reputation safeguarded.
Below A 0.4 0.5 Risk appetite is set by the Board which allocates Debt securities responsibility for oversight and management of market Debt securities are primarily held within the Treasury risk to the Group Market Risk Committee, an Executive or Insurance & Investment Divisions and are almost Risk Committee chaired by the Group Risk Director.
exclusively invested in investment grade counterparties with 96.5% 2006 94.0% of debt securities rated A or above, again based on our internal rating scale.
92 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued The Group devotes resources to ensuring that market risk is Interest Rate Risk Non-Trading comprehensively captured, accurately modelled and reported, A key market risk faced by the Group in its non-trading book is and effectively managed.
Trading and non-trading portfolios interest rate risk.
This arises where the Groups financial assets are managed at various organisational levels, from the HBOS and liabilities have interest rates set under different bases or Group overall, down to speci c business areas.
Market risk reset at different times.
measurement and management methods are designed to The principal Board limit for structural interest rate risk is meet or exceed industry standards, and the tools used expressed in terms of potential volatility of net interest income facilitate internal market risk management and reporting.
Risk exposure is monitored using Market risk is controlled across the Group by setting limits the following measures: using a range of measurement methodologies.
The principal Net Interest Income sensitivity This methodology comprises methodologies are Net Interest Income NII sensitivity and an analysis of the Groups current interest rate risk position Market Value MV sensitivity for banking books and Value at overlaid with behavioural assessment and re-pricing Risk VaR for trading books.
All are supplemented by scenario assumptions of planned future activity.
The change to analysis which is performed in order to estimate the potential forecast NII is calculated with reference to a set of fide ned economic loss that could arise from extreme, but plausible parallel interest rate shocks which measure how much stress events.
current projections would alter over a 12 month period.
Detailed market risk framework documents and limit structures Market Value sensitivity This methodology considers have been developed for each Division.
These are tailored to all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance the speci c market risk characteristics and business objectives sheet including those beyond the time horizon of of each Division.
Each divisional policy requires appropriate the NII measure.
It is also calculated with reference divisional sanction, and is then forwarded to the Group Market to a set of fide ned parallel interest rate shocks.
Risk Committee for approval on at least an annual basis.
The Board has delegated authority to the Group Market Market risk within the insurance and investment businesses Risk Committee to allocate limits to divisions as appropriate arises in a number of ways and depending upon the product: within the overall risk appetite approved by the Board each some risks are borne directly by the customer and some by year.
In turn, the Group Market Risk Committee has granted the insurance and investment companies.
Risk to customers is limits which constitute the risk tolerance for each Division.
controlled by adherence to and regular monitoring of investment mandates and, if appropriate, unit pricing systems and controls.
Banking divisions are required to hedge all signi cant open In the case of risk to the companies, individual Boards approve interest rate mismatch positions with Treasury and are not overall risk appetites and policies against which exposure is permitted to take positions of a speculative nature.
structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about Market risk principally interest rate, in ation and equity also customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
arises from the Groups fide ned bene t pensions obligations.
These sensitivities are regularly measured and are reported to Market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of the Group Market Risk Committee every month.
exposure to changes in interest rates.
This is the potential impact on earnings and value that could occur when, if rates fall, liabilities cannot be re-priced as quickly as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be re-priced as quickly as liabilities.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 Net Interest Income Sensitivity The principal driver of the risk is re-pricing mismatch The following table shows, split by major currency, the Groups but the methodology also recognises that behavioural sensitivities as at 31 December 2007 to an immediate up and re-pricing assumptions for example, prepayment rates down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
are themselves a function of the level of interest rates.
The measure, however, is simpli ed in that it assumes all As at 31.12.2007 interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same 25 bps 25 bps time and by the same amount.
Also, it does not incorporate the Impact of interest rate shift m m impact of management actions that, in the event of an adverse Currency rate movement, could reduce the impact on NII.
Sterling 21.2 21.6 93 US Dollar 0.6 0.5 Reserve Sensitivity Euro 4.3 4.3 The following table shows the market value sensitivity, for a AU Dollar 0.1 0.1 25 basis point shift, of those items in respect of which a change in market value must be re ected in the equity of the Group Other 0.1 0.1 principally available for sale assets and cash ow hedges.
Total 25.9 26.2 As at 31.12.2007 As at 31.12.2006 25 bps 25 bps 25 bps 25 bps Impact of interest rate shift m m Impact of interest rate shift m m Available for sale reserve 15.7 15.7 Currency Cash ow hedge reserve 101.5 101.5 Sterling 14.1 16.0 Total 85.8 85.8 US Dollar 1.2 1.2 Euro 4.4 4.4 As at 31.12.2006 AU Dollar 1.0 1.2 25 bps 25 bps Other 0.2 0.2 Impact of interest rate shift m m Total 18.9 20.6 Available for sale reserve 21.9 21.9 Cash ow hedge reserve 76.4 76.4 Total 54.5 54.5 Base case projected NII is calculated on the basis of the Groups current balance sheet, forward rate paths implied by Foreign Exchange Risk Non-Trading current market rates, and contractual re-pricing dates adjusted The Group Funding & Liquidity Committee is responsible for according to behavioural assumptions for some products : the framework within which structural foreign currency risk is it also incorporates business planning assumptions about managed.
The Group Funding & Liquidity Committee manages future balance sheet volumes and the level of early redemption foreign currency exposures based on forecast currency fees.
The above sensitivities show how this projected NII information provided by the Divisions, and mandates Treasury would change in response to an immediate parallel shift to execute transactions and undertake currency programmes to all relevant interest rates market and administered.
to manage structural currency risk.
The actual risk position is monitored monthly by the Group Market Risk Committee.
94 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued Transaction exposures arise primarily from pro ts generated Trading in the overseas operations, which will be remitted back to the The Groups market risk trading activities are conducted by UK and then converted into sterling.
This Group activity is subject to a Trading Book Policy Statement, which is approved by the Board, and limits set by Translation exposures arise due to earnings that are retained the Group Market Risk Committee.
within the overseas operations and reinvested within their own balance sheet.
Treasury trading primarily centres around two activities: proprietary trading and trading on the back of business ows.
Structural currency exposures arise from the Groups Both activities incur market risk, the majority being interest rate investments in overseas subsidiaries, branches and other and foreign exchange rate exposure.
In addition, a number of investments and are noted in the following table.
marketable assets held as part of our liquidity risk management framework are also held in trading books.
Such activity gives rise to market risk as a result of movements in credit spread.
2007 Net Borrowing Remaining investments taken out to structural The framework for managing the market risk in these activities in overseas hedge net currency requires detailed and tailored modelling techniques, which are Functional currency operations investments exposure the responsibility of the Treasury Market Risk team.
of the operation m m m AU Dollar 2,023 2,023 The Group employs several complementary techniques to Euro 1,888 1,613 275 measure and control trading activities including: Value at Risk US Dollar 97 97 VaR, sensitivity analysis, stress testing and position limits.
Other 4 4 The VaR model used as part of the Groups management of Total 4,012 3,733 279 trading activity expresses market risk to 99% con dence using a one day holding period.
The number provides an indication 2006 of the maximum mark to market loss which, to this level of Net Borrowing Remaining con dence, might be incurred on a single day given the size investments taken out to structural in overseas hedge net currency of current trading positions.
It is computed using an historical Functional currency operations investments exposure simulation approach and a one year history of price data.
of the operation m m m AU Dollar 1,560 1,560 The underlying assumption of VaR is that future price volatility and correlation will not differ signi cantly from that previously Euro 1,464 1,224 240 observed.
It also implicitly assumes that all positions are US Dollar 106 99 7 suf ciently liquid to be realisable within the chosen one day Other 13 13 holding period.
Also, VaR gives no indication of the size of any Total 3,143 2,883 260 loss that could occur from extreme adverse price changes ie, outside the chosen con dence level.
For these reasons, As at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 there are no stress testing is employed to simulate the effect of selected material net currency exposures in the nontrading book relating adverse market movements.
Such measures are particularly to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise relevant when market conditions are abnormal and daily price to net currency gains or losses.
movements are dif cult to source, as has been the case in a number of financial markets since August 2007.
The large increase in VaR, relative to 31 December 2006, is due principally to higher price volatility in wholesale markets the size of underlying trading positions has not changed materially.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 95 The regulatory capital charge for market risk trading exposures impact of a one basis point movement in interest rates on the represents only 1.87% 2006 1.93% of the Groups capital base.
Credit spread risk is managed using credit spread VaR and position limits based on credit spread For all signi cant exposures VaR is calculated on a daily basis sensitivity.
Foreign exchange risk is principally managed by and is used by senior management to manage market risk.
On the use of position limits.
Equity risk is managed through a more detailed desk and trader level, to increase transparency Equity Index VaR and position limits.
interest rate risk relating to the trading book is principally managed using sensitivity methodology to measure exposure The Groups trading market risk exposure for the year ended and set limits.
This methodology calculates the present value 31 December 2007 is analysed below.
95 As at As at Average Highest Lowest 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 Exposure m m m m m m m m Total Value at Risk 13.2 4.5 7.6 4.2 13.9 6.4 4.0 2.9 Included in the above is the Value at Risk relating to: Interest rates 4.7 2.2 3.0 2.4 5.9 3.9 1.7 1.4 Credit spread 8.3 2.0 4.3 1.4 8.4 3.9 1.8 0.9 Foreign exchange 1.9 0.2 0.6 0.3 2.0 0.7 0.1 0.1 Equity risk factor 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.4 Derivatives Policy is reviewed at least annually to ensure its continued In the normal course of business, the Group uses a limited relevance to the Groups current and planned operations.
range of derivative instruments for both trading and non-trading Operational liquidity management is delegated to Treasury.
The principal derivative instruments used are interest authority to set speci c limits and guidelines and responsibility rate swaps, interest rate options, cross currency swaps, forward for monitoring and controlling liquidity is delegated by the GCC rate agreements, credit derivatives, forward foreign exchange to the Group Funding & Liquidity Committee GFLC a subcontracts and futures.
The Group uses derivatives as a risk committee of the GCC.
management tool for hedging interest rate and foreign exchange The Groups banking operations in the UK comply with the rate risk.
FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity approach for sterling liquidity The Groups activity in derivatives is controlled within risk management and regulatory reporting.
A key element of the management limits set by the Board and overseen by FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity Policy is that a bank should hold the relevant Group Risk Committees.
Details of derivative a stock of high quality liquid assets that can be sold quickly contracts outstanding at the year-end are included in and discretely in order to replace funding that has been Note 13 to the Financial Statements on pages 177 and 178. withdrawn due to an actual or perceived problem with the bank.
The objective is that this stock should enable the bank to Liquidity Risk continue business, whilst providing an opportunity to arrange The risk that the Group does not have suf cient more permanent funding solutions.
Limits on the five day financial resources to meet its obligations when sterling net wholesale out ow and the minimum level of stock they are due or will have to do so at excessive cost.
liquidity have been agreed with the FSA.
In addition, GFLC has Liquidity Risk is governed by the Group Liquidity Policy set a requirement for the stock liquidity ratio of at least 105% Statement GLPS which is approved by the Board and fide fines FSA minimum level 100%.
the core principles for identifying, measuring, managing and monitoring liquidity risk across the Group.
Detailed liquidity risk framework documents and limit structures are in place for the Groups operations, where liquidity is managed on a group basis, and for overseas banking units subject to speci c regulatory requirements.
The responsibility for oversight and management of Liquidity Risk is delegated to the Group Capital Committee GCC.
96 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued HBOS also adheres to the requirements of other regulatory Firstly, HBOS stress tests its potential cash ow mismatch authorities including the Australian Prudential Regulatory position under various scenarios on an ongoing basis, with Authority and the Irish Financial Regulator in whose formal Group reporting at least monthly, in compliance with jurisdictions the Group has branches or subsidiaries.
The cash ow mismatch position considers on balance sheet cash ows, commitments received and The internal approach to liquidity management, which has granted, and material derivative cash ows.
Speci cally, been in place for several years, goes beyond the regulatory commitments granted include the pipeline of new business requirements in terms of the depth of analysis conducted and awaiting completion as well as other standby or revolving the amount of liquidity held.
The approach looks at our forecast credit facilities.
Behavioural adjustments are developed cash ows across all currencies and at longer timeframes than evaluating how the cash ow position might change under the regulatory rules require.
At 31 December 2007, the Groups each stress scenario to derive a stressed cash ow position.
liquidity portfolio of marketable assets was 60.0bn 2006 56.4bn.
The liquidity portfolio is recorded in Treasury and Scenarios are based on varying degrees of stress and cover predominantly comprises Treasury debt securities, excluding both HBOS name speci c and systemic dif culties.
Details of the Treasury debt securities scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually portfolio are disclosed on page 63.
The assets in the liquidity to gain assurance they continue to be relevant to the nature portfolio are treated in two forms.
Firstly, assets which we know of the business.
to be eligible under normal arrangements with the Bank of An example of a name speci c scenario we model is a England, the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve.
substantial fall in our credit rating.
In such a scenario we Secondly, a substantial pool of high quality secondary liquidity assess the likely impact on customer deposits and assume assets that allow us to manage through periods of stress taking the wholesale markets would be closed to us.
Our approach into account the likely behaviours of depositors and wholesale is to hold substantial liquidity assets which would provide markets.
These approaches are supported by a framework of suf cient time for management to take appropriate mitigating limits to ensure we are not subject to undue concentrations for actions.
We also model the impact of systemic events either our assets or liabilities and by daily control processes to across the banking sector.
Typically the impact of these address both regulatory and internal requirements.
In 2007, the is less severe as wholesale markets normally continue to primary method of realising the liquidity portfolio for cash has provide some funding and concerted central bank action been via repo rather than outright sale.
This framework includes: would be expected to address such market dislocation.
funding diversity criteria focusing on retail, other customer The results of the stress testing are presented monthly to the and wholesale sources: GFLC.
A formal strategic review is presented to the HBOS plc sight to one week and sight to one month mismatch limits Board at least annually.
as a percentage of total wholesale funding for all major Secondly, the Group has a Liquidity Contingency Plan currencies and for all currencies in aggregate: embedded within the Group Liquidity Policy Statement which targets on the appropriate balance of short to medium term has been designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an wholesale funding: and early stage, so that action can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
This is achieved through the use of Early criteria and limits on marketable assets, by asset class for Warning Indicators EWIs.
Sterling, US Dollars, Euros, other currencies, and for all currencies in aggregate.
Clear guidelines are set out for the management escalation process in the event of EWIs triggering and the actions to be Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address taken short and medium term should such an event take place.
both statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
Responsibilities for communication with various external parties and contact details of key personnel are also clearly stated.
In addition to day to day prudential limits, the liquidity framework has two other important components.
In response to the market dislocation in the second half of 2007, the GCC has increased the frequency of its meetings and Treasury has introduced additional metrics which are monitored daily and tailored to prevailing market conditions.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 97 Funding During the second half of 2007, with the increased cost of term Customer deposit growth and the supply of wholesale funding funding we chose to reduce our term issuance and utilise our to HBOS have remained strong during the dislocation in global signi cant available capacity in money markets.
financial markets in the latter part of 2007.
However, covered bonds and securitisation issues continue to be important funding sources for the Group with outstandings As at As at as at the end of December 2007 of 69.6bn, an increase 31.12.2007 31.12.2006 of 5.2bn during 2007.
In addition, issuance of CDs rose to bn bn 63.1bn compared with 42.5bn at the end of 2006.
As at the Loans and advances to customers 430.0 376.8 end of December 2007, 113.9bn of wholesale funding had Customer accounts 243.2 211.9 97 a maturity over one year compared with 109.8bn at the end Customer lending less customer accounts 186.8 164.9 of 2006.
Customer accounts as a % of loans and advances to customers 56.6% 56.2% Conduits HBOS sponsors two conduits, Grampian and Landale, The wholesale funding capacity of the Group is dependant which are special purpose vehicles that invest in highly upon factors such as the strength of the balance sheet, rated assets and fund via the Asset Backed Commercial earnings, asset quality, ratings and market position.
At 31 December 2007, investments assesses the Group funding mix to ensure that adequate held by Grampian totalled 18.6bn.
Grampian is, and diversity is maintained.
It is Group policy to manage its always has been, fully consolidated into our balance sheet.
balance sheet pro le to ensure customer deposits sourced We also consolidated 0.6bn of assets held by Landale.
outside Treasury represents a signi cant component of overall Grampian is a long established, high grade credit investment funding, and GFLC directs and coordinates the activities of vehicle that invests in diversi ed Asset Backed Securities the Divisions in raising liabilities from a range of sources.
of which over 99.9% are rated AAA by S&P and Aaa by Moodys.
Grampian has a liquidity line in place with HBOS In order to strengthen the Groups funding position, HBOS which covers all of the assets and programme wide credit has over the last few years diversi ed its funding sources enhancement is also provided by HBOS.
Landale holds and lengthened its maturity pro le of market sensitive funding.
both assets originated from our own balance sheet and third This has been achieved through: party transactions.
Landale has liquidity lines from HBOS and from third party banks, and therefore the former, but widening the wholesale investor base and product set: not the latter, are consolidated into our balance sheet.
building and maintaining a large securitisation programme: In the latter half of 2007, due to the disruption in the ABCP market, there have been occasions when Grampian and accessing the covered bond market: Landale in respect of assets backed by HBOS liquidity lines have declined to issue ABCP given the unattractiveness utilising the geographic diversity of New York and Sydney of the spreads and maturities available.
At these times as funding hubs for the Group: and we therefore funded the conduits, on a temporary basis, extending our Medium Term Note programmes.
through the available liquidity lines rather than through the ABCP market.
At 31 December 2007, HBOS had provided During 2007 the Groups wholesale funding sources were funding to the Grampian and Landale conduits of 8.1bn.
well diversi ed by instrument, currency and by maturity as shown in the tables on the following page.
Tables are prepared on the basis that retail is fide ned using the current statutory fide nition, ie, administered rate products.
Wholesale funding, when issued in a foreign currency but swapped into sterling, is included at the swap exchanged amount.
Wholesale funding is shown excluding any repo activity and the funding raised in the names of the conduits.
98 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 99 General Insurance & Long Term Assurance The majority of the Groups long term insurance and investment Business Risks contract liabilities are managed within the HBOS Insurance & The general insurance and long term assurance business Investment Division and Insight Investment with approximately contracts underwritten by the Group expose HBOS to both 3% 2006 3% operated by the life businesses outside the UK.
Day-to-day management of insurance and investment risk is undertaken by management supported by specialist risk Insurance risk is the potential for loss, arising out of functions.
Use is made of the statutory actuarial roles, both to adverse claims from both life and general insurance help ensure regulatory compliance in respect of the authorised contracts.
insurance companies in the Group and to help meet Group risk management standards.
99 Investment risk is the potential for financial loss arising from the risks associated with the investment Long Term Assurance management activities of the Group.
Investment risk The insurance and investment business that is transacted includes market, credit and liquidity risks.
The loss by the life insurance companies within the Group comprises can be as a result of: unit linked business, xed bene t business also known as non-pro t business and with-pro ts business described as Direct risks relating to changes in the value of Group assets insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary in support of the general insurance and long term insurance participating features DPF written within the with-pro ts fund.
contracts: Several companies within the insurance and investment Indirect risks arising from policyholder funds where the assets business transact either unit linked and or other non pro t and policyholder liabilities are matched: and business, but all with-pro ts business is underwritten by Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited Clerical Medical, Indirect risks associated with the management of assets held a subsidiary of HBOS Financial Services Limited.
on behalf of third parties.
The key characteristics of long term assurance that give rise The Group Insurance Risk Committee, one of the Executive to insurance and investment risk are its long term nature, the Risk Committees described on page 88, considers regular guarantees provided to policyholders, the dependency on the reports on speci ed aggregate insurance risks across all of the performance of investment markets and the extent to which Groups insurance and investment businesses.
It oversees the assets backing the contractual liabilities are matched.
development, implementation and maintenance of the overall insurance risk management framework, covering insurance risk The quality, mix and volume of business have a signi cant in each business individually, as well as in aggregate.
in uence on the extent of insurance and investment risk assumed by the Group and resulting pro ts.
The quality of As part of the overall Group risk management framework, business written is in uenced by variations in product terms as the Group Insurance & Investment Risk team provides well as the average premium size, age and term pro le within regular support to the Group Market Risk Committee and to the particular products.
Accordingly, the mix in products written the Group Credit Risk Committee on the inter-relationship may impact on pro ts, depending on the nature, extent and between insurance risk and investment risks market, pro tability of new business in addition to existing business.
This credit and liquidity risks respectively arising within these risk is managed through the application of clear pricing policies businesses, and the development of appropriate policies that require full financial assessment for each new product, and standards for the management of those risks.
incorporating consideration of expected hurdle rates of return.
100 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued Additionally, variations in administration and development Unit linked products provide some discretion for variation in costs may impact the available pro t margin within the product annual administration charges, and therefore management charges.
To manage this risk, there is a regular process of of variations in expenses may be achieved through variation expense budgeting and reporting with appropriate targets set in charges.
for new insurance and investment products that are developed.
An additional risk the Group faces in respect of unit linked The risks associated with particular sections of the long term business is the risk that increases to surrender rates for assurance business are set out below.
both insurance and investment contracts reduces the value of future investment management charges.
Actions Unit Linked Funds to control and monitor this risk include charges applicable For unit linked funds, including consolidated collective on some products where the investor surrenders early, investment schemes, which comprise 77% 2006 74% of regular experience monitoring, consideration of the the Groups long term insurance and investment contract sensitivity of product pro tability to levels of lapse rates at liabilities, investors bear the investment risk, with changes in the product development stage: and initiatives within the the underlying investments being matched by changes in the relevant businesses to encourage customer retention.
Similarly, the Group manages a number of collective investment schemes where the investors Non-Pro t Business bear the investment risks.
The investor selects from a range The Group has a diversi ed portfolio of life insurance and of investment opportunities available from the Group in annuity policies within its portfolio of non-pro t insurance accordance with their personal risk appetite and circumstances.
contracts, which includes the insurance risk component of unit linked policies classi ed as insurance contracts.
The On a day-to-day basis, cash out ows which are necessitated principal investment risk in respect of the non-pro t business by investors withdrawing their funds are generally met by cash is interest rate risk which arises because assets and liabilities in ows from new investors.
In circumstances where funds are may exhibit differing changes in value as a result of changes contracting, or to meet unusually high levels of withdrawals, in interest rates.
This may potentially impact on the results and the Group sells assets in the fund in order to meet the cash the capital position.
The investment risk also includes the risk demands with any dealing costs charged to the underlying unit of increases in corporate bond yield spreads over government linked fund and consequently the policyholders.
The underlying risk free yields or the ratings downgrade of certain securities, assets in the unit linked funds are subject to credit and market both of which reduce the capital value of the bonds.
These risks in the form of interest rate, equity prices, foreign exchange risks are controlled by processes carried out to help ensure and other market risks depending on the fund, including an appropriate level of matching is maintained in the funds so movement in property values.
These changes are matched that changes in xed interest assets backing the non-pro t by changes in the unit linked liabilities.
Accordingly, the Group business are substantially mitigated by offsetting changes is not directly exposed to signi cant liquidity, credit or market in liabilities as the discount rate used in valuing the liabilities risks, although the investors bene ts will vary as a consequence.
is linked to that of the matching assets.
These processes Decreases in the capital value of unit linked funds as a result include the use of and monitoring against fund mandates.
of falls in market values of equities, property or xed interest assets will however reduce the future annual investment The ultimate amounts payable under these policies are management charges that will be earned from unit linked sensitive to general trends in mortality rates.
The Group estimates that if the capital value of the comprising 3% 2006 3% of the Groups long term insurance unit linked funds, excluding consolidated collective investment and investment contract liabilities, there is a risk that increases schemes, classi ed as investment contracts had been reduced, to life expectancy through medical advances will prove greater on average by 10% for the year, the pro t before tax for the year than that anticipated.
For protection business, the risk is that an would have decreased by 22m 2006 25m.
For unit linked unforeseen event such as a natural disaster will cause a material contracts classi ed as either insurance contracts or investment increase in death rates.
contracts with DPF the Group has considered the sensitivities The extent of the Groups exposure to insurance risks is set out to a number of risks in Note 24 to the Financial Statements on in Note 26 to the Financial Statements on pages 189 to 192. pages 186 to 188.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 101 With-Pro ts Fund As well as pooling of risks, the other important measures The insurance and investment business includes the Clerical in controlling the investment risk within the with-pro ts Medical With-Pro ts Fund which comprises 17% 2006 20% fund include having agreed management actions to adjust of the Groups long term insurance and investment contract the nature and extent of investment exposure in response liabilities.
The with-pro ts fund takes some investment risks to certain investment conditions: by recognising and with the aim of enhancing policyholder returns but aims to holding appropriate levels of risk capital: by restricting limit payouts to policyholders to that supportable by the holdings to assets which meet admissibility criteria: and with-pro ts funds assets.
by using derivative strategies to reduce downside risk.
For unitised with-pro ts contracts the Group receives an annual Accordingly, other than the secondary impact on the Groups 101 management charge.
For traditional with-pro ts contracts, annual management charges and share of bonuses declared, which form the minority of the with-pro ts fund business, the the insurance and other investment risks credit, liquidity and Group receives one ninth of bonuses declared to policyholders market risks within the with-pro ts fund are generally expected as long as there is a distributable surplus within the fund.
to be borne by the with-pro ts fund policyholders except in extreme scenarios.
The sensitivity of the Group result to certain Ordinarily, variations in the capital value of the funds assets changes in key variables relating to insurance and investment would result in variations in the level of bene ts available to contracts with DPF within the with-pro ts fund have been the with-pro ts contract holders and accordingly a variation included in Note 24 to the Financial Statements on pages in the insurance and investment contracts with DPF liabilities.
Included in the with-pro ts fund are certain contracts with minimum payment guarantees at certain policy durations and Additionally, in order to demonstrate the sensitivity of the withon death.
Of these with-pro ts contracts issued between 1997 pro ts fund to certain key market variables, and consequently and 2001, a signi cant proportion have guaranteed bene ts the ability of the with-pro ts fund to meet its policyholders which are in the money at the balance sheet date.
The costs expectations, the Group has set out a sensitivity analysis of meeting these guarantees, up to a certain level, are met by of unallocated divisible surplus in Note 28 to the Financial charges to the bene ts for all with-pro ts contract policyholders.
The amount of these guaranteed bene ts, net of charges to be General Insurance levied on policyholder funds, was less than 1% 2006 1% of the For general insurance household contracts the most Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities signi cant risks to claims experience arise from weather at the balance sheet date.
Above this level the costs are met by events.
For repayment insurance contracts the most the free assets of the fund the assets maintained in the fund signi cant risks arise from changes in economic conditions.
which are not held to meet contractual liabilities.
There remains a risk that Clerical Medical may suffer an additional charge The Group manages its exposure to insurance risk through in exceptional circumstances where even after management a strategy which includes limitation of the nature of the risks action, the fund is unable to meet the costs of guarantees underwritten and allowance within the price charged for the within the fund.
This is set out in the Principles and Practices underlying risks.
This allowance for risks is based on both of the With-Pro ts Fund, available from the Clerical Medical external information and our own experience data.
For all Investment Group website www.
classes of insurance there are pricing models that are regularly adjusted for actual claims experience.
For household insurance the Group limits its exposure to large weather events through the use of reinsurance.
102 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued The majority of claims are reported and settled within 12 months Regulatory Risk and generally there is limited reserving uncertainty for events The FSA is the main regulator for HBOS, although the before the balance sheet date.
Groups international businesses in the USA, Australia and Ireland are subject to direct scrutiny from the US Federal For some renewable contracts household, travel and some Reserve, APRA and The Financial Regulator respectively.
repayment insurance, the longer term exposure to risk is managed in conjunction with the ability to re-price contracts HBOS understands that consumers have an ever-increasing to take account of changes in the level of risk within those choice of supplier and product and are more demanding of contracts.
Consumer lobby groups have also become more active on their behalf.
The Groups Customer Set out in Note 26 to the Financial Statements on page 192 are Contract, which was approved by the Board in November 2005, the Groups general insurance claim provisions by policy type.
sets out principles for doing business and is HBOSs agship response to the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative, End of information that forms an integral part of the audited supported by ongoing development of procedures across Financial Statements.
The objective is to meet the requirements of our shareholders through meeting the needs of our customers.
Operational Risk This exists in the normal conduct of business.
HBOS is alert to the wider, cumulative picture of regulatory Examples of potential sources of operational risk change and utilises centralised expertise in the area of include fraud, system reliability, human error, failure regulatory and legal compliance, speci cally to: of key suppliers, IT security, business continuity, change management, operational outsourcing and identify and assess the impact of, respond to and where failure to comply with legislation or regulation.
possible in uence, the direction of regulatory developments on behalf of HBOS: The Board has approved an Operational Risk Policy that establishes the framework for managing operational risk.
The lead the development and monitoring of the application of main components of the Operational Risk Framework include speci c Group-wide policies and standards: and risk and control assessment, internal loss reporting, capture oversee the management, support and co-ordination of the of risk event information, key risk indicator monitoring and liaison and interaction with HBOS regulatory stakeholders evaluation of external events.
across all its international businesses.
The Group Operational Risk Committee is one of the four Executive Risk Committees chaired by the Group Risk Director.
The impact of regulatory change is reported across all Executive It is attended by senior executives from the Divisions and Group Risk Committees with speci c reference to the discipline specialist areas.
The committee considers the management affected and at Group level to Audit Committee and the Board.
of issues and exposures, recommends the appropriate capital requirement, approves policies and standards and provides oversight of the operational risk communities.
A key enhancement to our infrastructure has been to focus on the explicit risk management of specialist areas that underpin the HBOS Operational Risk Framework.
All specialist functions have clear roles fide ned to help lead the identi cation, management and measurement of risks relevant to their areas across the Group.
The Group Operational Risk function co-ordinates the specialist areas, designs and maintains Group-wide risk systems and undertakes the detailed modelling required to assess risk exposure.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 103 The information set out below ending at the end of this page In implementing the EUs Banking Consolidation Directive forms an integral part of the audited financial statements as Basel I, the FSA requires each bank and banking group described in the Accounting Policies section of the Financial to maintain an individually prescribed ratio of total capital to Statements on page 160. risk weighted assets, taking into account both balance sheet assets and off-balance sheet transactions.
Capital Management It is HBOSs policy to maintain a strong capital base to The Group must at all times monitor and demonstrate support the development of its business and to meet compliance with the relevant regulatory capital requirements regulatory capital requirements at all times.
The Group has in place processes and controls to monitor the Groups capital adequacy and no breaches were 103 HBOS recognises the impact on shareholder returns of the level reported to the FSA during the year.
HBOSs capital is divided of equity capital employed and seeks to maintain a prudent into two tiers: balance between the advantages and exibility afforded by a strong capital position and the higher returns on equity possible Tier 1 capital comprises shareholders funds, innovative with greater leverage.
Tier 1 securities and minority interests, after adjusting for items re ected in shareholders funds which are treated The Groups capital is managed via the Board through the differently for the purposes of capital adequacy.
The book Group Business Plan, with the objective of maintaining both values of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted in the optimal amount of capital and the most appropriate mix arriving at Tier 1 capital.
between the different components of capital.
The day-to-day management of the Groups capital is delegated to the Group Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, Capital Committee.
collective impairment allowances, and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equities held as available for sale.
The Groups policy is to issue capital in a range of different forms and also from diverse sources to spread the investor Various limits are applied to elements of the capital base.
HBOS plc raises the non-equity Tier 1 capital and The amount of innovative Tier 1 securities cannot exceed subordinated debt for all the Groups businesses, with the 15 per cent of overall Tier 1 capital, qualifying Tier 2 exception of Clerical Medical which is permitted to raise capital cannot exceed Tier 1 capital, and qualifying dated capital separately as part of the overall Group capital plan subordinated loan capital may not exceed 50 per cent of to spread the investor base for subordinated debt.
There are also limitations on the amount of collective impairment allowances which may be included The principal forms of capital are included in the following as part of Tier 2 capital.
From the total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 balances on the consolidated balance sheet: called up share capital the carrying amounts of unconsolidated investments capital, share premium account, other reserves, retained eg, insurance company investments, investments in the earnings and other borrowed funds.
Capital also includes capital of banks, and certain regulatory items are deducted.
collective impairment allowances held in respect of loans and advances.
Movements in Tier 1 capital and the Capital structure of the Group are given in the Group Finance Directors Report on Capital Requirements pages 76 and 77 respectively.
The FSA supervises HBOS on a consolidated basis and, as such, receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets End of information that forms an integral part of the audited capital requirements for, HBOS as a whole.
and insurance subsidiaries are directly regulated by either the FSA or their local supervisors, who set their capital adequacy requirements.
104 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Risk Management continued Risk weighted assets are categorised as either trading book Pillar One determines the minimum capital requirements and for or banking book and risk weighted assets are determined HBOS this is divided into two approaches to determining credit accordingly.
Banking book risk weighted assets are measured risk regulatory capital requirement, with increasing complexity by means of a hierarchy of risk weightings classi ed according and sophistication.
to the nature of each asset and counterparty, taking into Standardised approach.
This requires banks to use account any eligible collateral or guarantees.
Banking book external credit ratings to determine risk weightings for rated off-balance sheet items giving rise to credit, foreign exchange counterparties and groups other counterparties into broad or interest rate risk are assigned weights appropriate to the categories and applies standardised risk weightings to these category of the counterparty, taking into account any eligible categories.
Trading book risk weighted assets are determined by taking into account market-related risks such Advanced Internal Ratings approach.
Banks use their own as foreign exchange, interest rate and equity position risks and internal assessment of both the probability of default and counterparty risk.
the exposure at default and loss given default.
Basel II Basel II also introduces capital requirements for operational risk FSA GENPRU and BIPRU rules were adopted into the comprising three levels of increasing sophistication.
One level Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies calculates a capital charge based on gross revenues, a second and Investment Firms with effect from 1 January 2007. uses three fide ned percentages based on gross revenues in This legislative process converted the European Capital eight business lines and nally an Advanced Measurement Requirements Directive and, therefore, the Basel II Capital Approach based on the banks own analysis of potential loss Accord, into UK regulation that applies to HBOS.
based on operational risk data.
HBOS elected to adopt transitional arrangements in 2007 and HBOS has FSA approval to use the Advanced Internal Ratings remain on the Basel I rules to determine minimum regulatory Based Approach Credit Risk and Advanced Measurement capital requirements.
Approach Operational Risk for capital determination purposes with effect from 1 January 2008.
The primary goal of our Basel II programme has always been to optimise the way we do business through an improved Pillar Two is the supervisory review of a banks internal risk management capability.
This is integral to our strategy assessment of the appropriate level of regulatory capital of targeted growth within our over-arching objectives of to hold, consistent with its risk pro le and strategy.
The FSA delivering sustainable income streams and generating has conducted its annual supervisory review and evaluation added shareholder value.
process and issued under Pillar Two Individual Capital Guidance to HBOS.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market discipline.
Pillar Three is the appropriate disclosure of risk exposures and The supervisory objectives that form Basel II are to promote risk assessment processes of each rm.
Pillar Three recognises safety and soundness in the financial system and maintain that market discipline has the potential to reinforce capital at least the overall level of capital within the system: enhance regulation and other supervisory efforts to promote safety and competitive equality: and constitute a more comprehensive soundness in banks and financial systems.
It is our intention to approach to addressing risks: and focus on internationally publish full disclosures under Pillar Three as required by BIPRU active banks.
This is in line with emerging UK and EU consensus that the first disclosures for banks adopting advanced approaches from 1 January 2008 will be published based on year end 2008 data.
HBOS continues to promote a prudent and responsible approach to the management of capital.
Management and the Boards view of future requirements will continue to be the main determinant of total capital holdings.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development
