KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS Risk Description Management Processes Illicit trade Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled Group companies are required to assess the illicit trade risk in genuine products and locally manufactured products on their operating environment, to report significant issues centrally, and which applicable taxes are evaded, may have an adverse and to develop appropriate anti-illicit trade policies, practices and intellectual effect on Group volumes, restrict the ability to increase procedures which are consistent with the Groups overall strategy property selling prices and damage brand equity.
Increases in tobacco taxes, changes in relative tax rates, or Group companies are required to have in place a formalised pricing Excise adjustments to excise structures, may impact upon volume and excise strategy, with clearly defined roles and responsibilities, and sales tax sales or alter the Groups sales mix.
Increases in tobacco to ensure a coordinated approach to strategy execution and regular taxes could also lead to consumers rejecting the Groups monitoring.
Contingency plans must be in place to manage legitimate tax-paid products for products from illicit sources.
Increasingly stringent regulation regimes worldwide affecting Major regulatory trends are monitored centrally.
Group companies Regulation the manufacture and sale of the Groups products may are required to have in place a regulatory strategy to identify potentially impact on volumes and profits.
regulatory issues material to their operating environment and develop plans to address them in a manner consistent with local law and Group policy.
Disruption or change in the economic, regulatory or political Group companies are required to develop and implement Marketplace situations in the countries and regions in which the Group a business continuity plan covering their key risks, to include operates may have an adverse impact on its investments business relocation capacity, and to develop a programme for and businesses or on its consolidated results of operations.
testing those plans to measure their effectiveness and relevance.
The actions of competitors, for example, branding changes, To maintain a competitive advantage, the Group seeks to new product launches, or price repositioning, could potentially anticipate and respond to new consumer trends through affect the results of the Groups operations or impact on its continuous innovation, and to develop and market new volumes or profits.
products, packaging and technologies, including products with potentially reduced harm.
Scenario planning for price war situations is also undertaken, where appropriate.
Funding and liquidity risks may expose the Group to The Group operates within a set of conservative financing Financial shortages of cash and cash equivalents needed in the Groups principles which target a minimum level of liquidity, a minimum operations and for refinancing of existing debt.
Changes in average maturity for the total debt portfolio and a maximum currency values and interest rates may have an adverse impact allowable proportion of total debt maturing in any one year.
on the financial condition or operations of the Group.
The Group maintains a substantial, medium term committed bank facility which may be drawn at short notice.
The Group Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise operates within a conservative cash flow hedging policy which to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties.
sets out minimum levels of foreign exchange cover against Changes in asset returns, salary increases, inflation, long known currency exposures.
term interest rates and other actuarial assumptions could The Group maintains both floating and fixed rate debt.
Where affect the retirement benefit arrangements operated by appropriate, the Group also uses derivatives, primarily interest the Group, and so have an adverse impact on the Group.
rate swaps, to lock in interest rates.
Exposure to each financial counterparty is monitored on a global basis and risk is limited according to the counterpartys credit rating.
The Group centrally monitors its most significant retirement benefit schemes.
In three of the five most significant operations with defined benefit schemes, the main schemes have been closed to new entrants in line with the Groups policy to make this change where possible.
The value of funding deficits remains modest when compared with the Groups market capitalisation and operating cash flow.
The outcomes of legal and regulatory court proceedings Any litigation which has the potential to impact upon the Litigation in various jurisdictions, including claims for personal injury, Groups operations or financial position is monitored centrally.
claims for economic loss arising from the treatment of Group companies are required to assess their exposure to such smoking and health-related diseases and claims for unpaid litigation and liaise centrally in connection with specific claims.
excise tax, could potentially impact on the results of operations or cash flows of the Group.
A significant disruption to the Groups information The Group has in place processes to ensure robust anti-virus Information technology systems due to computer viruses, malicious coverage and to protect information security.
Secure back-ups technology intrusions, the setting up of shared services centres or are required to be maintained for all business-critical applications, the installation of new systems could affect the Groups data and supporting systems.
28 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK FACTORS go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Illicit trade and intellectual property Introduction may impede the achievement of the Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit This section identifies the main risk Groups business objectives rather products, smuggled genuine products factors that may affect the British than to eliminate these risks and can and locally manufactured product on American Tobacco Groups finances therefore provide only reasonable, which applicable taxes are evaded, and operations.
The table opposite not absolute, assurance against represents a significant and growing provides a brief description of the key material misstatement or loss.
threat to the legitimate tobacco risks to which the Groups operations The Group uses audit committees at industry.
Increasing excise rates are exposed and identifies, in each central, regional, area and individual are encouraging more consumers case, the principal processes in place market levels to support the Audit to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco to manage those risks.
The factors Committee see pages 79 and 81 listed all have the potential to have products and providing greater rewards in monitoring risks and control.
This an adverse impact on the Groups for smugglers.
Illicit trade can have framework provides a continuing business, its revenues, profits, assets, an adverse effect on Group volumes, process for identifying, evaluating liquidity and capital resources, and restrict the ability to increase selling and managing the significant risks their potential impact is described prices and damage brand equity.
faced by the Company and its in greater detail below.
The Groups regional The brand names under which the audit committees focus on risks and It is not the intention to provide an Groups products are sold are key the control environment within each extensive analysis of all risks affecting assets.
Investments over a period region and are in turn supported by the Group.
Not all of the factors of time have led to many of the end market or area audit committees.
listed are within the control of British Groups brands having significant The corporate Audit Committee American Tobacco and other factors brand equity and global appeal to addresses risks and the control besides those listed may affect the consumers, essential for delivering environment within the Groups performance of its business.
Some sustainable profit growth into operations which do not fall under risks may be unknown at present the future.
The protection and the responsibility of the regional, and other risks, currently regarded maintenance of the reputation of area and local audit committees, for as immaterial, could turn out to be these brands is important to the example, central functions, global material in the future.
In a number programmes and above-region of countries around the world, the This section should be read in the projects.
Their reviews include risk of intellectual property rights context of the cautionary statement consideration of the effectiveness infringement remains high as a result regarding forward-looking statements of the process for identifying, of limitations in judicial protection on page 31. evaluating and managing the risks and or inadequate enforceability.
of the business and the assessments Risk management in summary Any substantial erosion in the value of internal control and business risks The risk factors listed in this section of the brands could have an adverse completed by operating companies.
and the specific processes in place to effect on the Group.
manage them should be considered In addition, the Corporate Social Excise and sales tax with reference to the Groups internal Responsibility CSR Committee Tobacco products are subject to control framework.
The main aspects see pages 82 and 83 is responsible substantial excise and sales taxes in of this are summarised below, and for identifying and assessing, in most countries in which the Group it is addressed in greater detail in conjunction with management, operates.
In many of these countries, the statement on internal control the significant social, environmental taxes are generally increasing but see pages 81 to 82. and reputational risks facing the the rate of increase varies between Groups business and for evaluating The Group maintains a sound countries and between different managements handling of such system of internal control with a types of tobacco products.
In this, it is similarly supported view to safeguarding shareholders tobacco taxes, or changes in relative by a framework of regional and investment and the Groups assets.
tax rates for different tobacco products, end market CSR committees.
It is designed to manage risks that or adjustments to excise structures, may result in a decline in overall sales Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 29 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW KEY GROUP RISK FACTORS continued volume for the Groups products or of restrictions on where cigarettes The raw materials used in the Groups may alter the Groups sales mix in may be smoked and profits e. g. business are commodities that are favour of Value-for-Money Brands.
as a result of diminution of brand subject to price volatility caused by Increases in tobacco taxes can also equity leading consumers away from factors such as weather conditions, lead to consumers rejecting the premium brands, through excise growing conditions, local planting Groups legitimate tax-paid products increases and or through increased decisions, market fluctuations and for products from illicit sources.
cost of complying with product design, changes in agricultural regulations.
Commodity price changes that are Regulation beyond the Groups control may The Groups businesses operate under Marketplace result in unexpected increases in increasingly stringent regulatory regimes The Group has substantial operations raw materials and packaging costs around the world.
Further regulation in over 180 countries.
Its results for the Groups products.
is expected, particularly as a result are influenced by the economic, of the World Health Organisations regulatory and political situations in The Group operates in highly Framework Convention on Tobacco the countries and regions in which competitive business and geographical Control FCTC and increasingly it has operations.
To maintain a competitive active tobacco control activities which the Group operates face the advantage, it must anticipate and outside the FCTC.
It is not possible threat of increasing civil unrest and respond to new consumer trends to predict where, when and in what can be subject to frequent changes in through continuous innovation.
form regulations will be enacted, but regime.
In others, terrorism, conflict The Group also seeks to develop regulation of the tobacco industry and the threat of war may have a and market new products, packaging generally covers: significant impact on the business and technologies, including products environment.
Some countries with potentially reduced harm.
Product: Product design and attributes maintain trade barriers or adopt Development of these products is e. g. low ignition propensity paper policies that favour domestic an expensive and lengthy process, as well as product disclosures e. g. producers, preventing or restricting but there are anticipated advantages ingredients, additives, emissions : sales by the Group.
There can be for any manufacturer who introduces Packaging: Pictorial warnings, rotating no assurance that political, social, these products to the market first.
warnings, use of colours and size: legal, economic, trade or other Competitors speed to market in developments, as well as theft branding changes, new product Promotion: Communications and fraud, will not have an adverse launches, or changes in product regarding the Groups products impact on the Groups investments mix, could have an adverse effect at both retail and trade levels: and businesses or on the Groups on the Groups operations.
Purchase: The manner in which consolidated results of operations.
In tough competitive environments, cigarettes are sold, such as type of Severe disruption to any aspect of where the price burden on consumers outlet e. g. supermarkets, vending the Groups supply chain or suppliers is high because of taxation or limited machines and how they are sold operations could have an adverse purchasing power, the Group is e. g. above the counter versus impact on the Groups ability to vulnerable to competitors aggressively beneath the counter : produce and deliver to customer taking market share through price Place: Regulations as to the places demands.
In certain markets, the repositioning, which generally has the where adults can and cannot smoke distribution of Group products is impact of reducing the overall profit tobacco products: and through channels managed by pool of the market and, ultimately, third parties, and often licensed Group profits.
To mitigate such Price: Regulations as to the price the by governments.
In these instances, risks, scenario planning for price Group can charge for its products loss of distribution, and therefore war scenarios is undertaken, where e. g. by excise or minimum prices.
a reduction in sales volumes and appropriate.
These regulations may have an revenues, is a possibility.
impact on volumes e. g. as a result 30 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK FACTORS go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Financial uses derivatives, primarily interest flows of the Group could be materially The Groups subsidiary undertakings rate swaps, to vary the fixed to affected by the final outcome of any operate over 160 retirement benefit floating mix.
Changes in currency particular litigation.
These values and interest rates could have Information technology arrangements have been developed an adverse impact on the financial The Group is increasingly reliant on in accordance with local practices in condition or operations of the Group.
information technology systems for the countries concerned.
The majority Cash deposits and other financial its internal communications, controls, of employees belong to defined benefit instruments give rise to credit risk on reporting and relations with customers schemes, most of which are funded the amounts due from counterparties.
A significant disruption externally, although the Group operates The failure of any counterparty to due to computer viruses, malicious a number of defined contribution meet its obligations to the Group intrusions, the setting up of shared schemes.
The contributions to the could have an adverse effect on the services centres or the installation of Groups defined benefit schemes financial condition or operations of new systems could affect the Groups and their valuations are determined the Group.
in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified Further details on the Groups actuaries.
Changes in asset returns, financial management and treasury Cautionary statement salary increases, inflation, long term operations are on pages 44 and 45. interest rates and other actuarial The Operating and Financial Litigation assumptions could have an adverse Review and certain other sections Group companies are involved in a impact on the Group.
of this document contain forwardnumber of legal and regulatory court looking statements which are Funding and liquidity risks expose proceedings in a number of countries.
subject to risk factors associated the Group to shortages of cash and These proceedings may be characterised with, among other things, the cash equivalents needed in the Groups as covering smoking and health economic and business operations and for refinancing of issues and include claims for personal circumstances occurring from existing debt.
The Group cannot be injury and claims for economic loss time to time in the countries and markets in which the certain that it will at all times have arising from the treatment of smoking Group operates.
access to the bank and capital markets and health-related diseases.
Regulatory and that the failure to achieve such proceedings may result in a challenge It is believed that the expectations access will not have an adverse effect to new regulations.
In addition, reflected in these statements on the Groups funding and liquidity there are legal proceedings and are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of position and on its credit ratings.
a governmental investigation in variables which could cause actual Canada arising from alleged past The Group is exposed to changes in results to differ materially from smuggling activities with consequent currency rates on the translation of those currently anticipated.
claims for unpaid excise tax.
A fuller the net assets of overseas subsidiaries analysis of current legal proceedings into the Groups reporting currency, to which the Group is subject is set sterling.
The Group is also exposed out on pages 153 to 161. to currency changes from the translation of profits earned in While it is impossible to be certain of overseas subsidiaries: these exposures the outcome of any particular case or are not normally hedged.
Exposures of the amount of any possible adverse also arise from the foreign currency verdict, the Company believes that the denominated trading transactions defences of the Group companies to undertaken by subsidiaries and all these various claims are meritorious dividend flows.
The Group maintains both on the law and the facts.
both floating and fixed rate debt.
Nevertheless, it is not impossible Where appropriate, the Group also that the results of operations or cash Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 31 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
