co. uk ar07 financialreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 37 175.4m of headroom on committed debt facilities funding sufficient to support growth to 2010 investment returns and cash flows plus 3.5 million.
At the date The Group employs a central UK team to manage many of the of demerger, a net retirement benefit asset of 3.5 million was treasury activities for the Group, including facility and pricing brought onto the Group balance sheet with an equivalent credit negotiation and hedging strategies.
This team is supported being included within exceptional demerger costs.
by banking teams in each of the overseas markets who are responsible for management of operational banking facilities Between the date of demerger and 31 December 2007 the net and relationship management with our local banking partners.
retirement benefit asset reduced to 1.7 million as shown in the table below: Detailed policies are in place to manage the financial risks to which the Group is exposed, and to regulate how the individual m treasury activities are to be conducted.
This is to ensure that Retirement benefit asset at date of demerger 3.5 activities undertaken will not expose the Group to unnecessary Pension credit in the income statement 0.1 risk and that treasury activities are consistent with and support Employer contributions 0.1 the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The philosophy Actuarial losses 2.0 underlying this is risk management and reduction the Group Pension asset as at 31 December 2007 1.7 does not seek to engage in risk creation and there is a clear Analysed as: Group policy not to take any speculative or trading positions.
Fair value of scheme assets 31.9 Present value of scheme liabilities 30.2 The key areas of risk, and how the Group manages them, are 1.7 as follows: The defined benefit pension arrangements previously operated Funding and liquidity risk by Provident Financial plc and now to be operated by IPF were This is the risk that the Group may not have sufficient liquid closed to new members from 1 January 2003.
All eligible UK funds to repay its liabilities as they fall due, or that funding employees joining after that date are now invited to join a is withdrawn as a result of a breach of financial covenants: stakeholder pension plan into which the company contributes or that it may not have access to sufficient funding to operate 8% of members pensionable earnings, provided the employee or achieve its strategic targets.
This is governed by the Group funding policy, which requires appropriate headroom on committed debt facilities on a Management of financial risks forward-looking basis compared with forecast borrowings.
The ultimate responsibility for management of financial risks Operationally, this is managed through the preparation and and treasury activity rests with the board, who approve treasuryreview of a rolling 12-week cash flow forecast for all operations, related policies and monitor compliance by means of a treasury which is compared to budgets and forecasts that are updated at report which is provided at each board meeting.
IPF seeks to ensure that it has sufficient Certain authorities are delegated to the treasury committee dedicated funding in place for all of its businesses such that it comprising the Finance Director Chairman, the Group is able to fund the peak borrowing requirement for the following treasurer, the Finance Directors of each of the operating 12 months, with additional headroom of 5%.
subsidiaries, and other senior Group finance employees.
Currently, there are sufficient committed facilities in place This committee meets 11 times a year.
The role of the treasury for business plans to 2010, and in all markets local currency committee is to monitor compliance with policy: review and receivables are funded with local currency borrowings.
These approve any policy changes prior to submission to the board: bank facilities are provided by a range of highly-rated banks approve strategies and specific proposals to maintain policy across a number of jurisdictions.
compliance: and monitor the impact of wider economic issues.
Activity reports are presented at each board meeting.
38 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Financial review continued Interest rate risk The Groups exposure is managed by the currency risk policy, This is the risk that volatility in interest rates has a material which addresses three key areas: impact on profit.
Balance sheet revaluation the impact of currency movements This is governed by the Group interest rate risk policy, which on foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities this seeks to achieve a high level of certainty of interest costs on exposure is primarily hedged by funding local currency assets borrowings in each currency over the medium-term.
The policy predominantly receivables with local currency borrowings.
requires that interest costs on borrowings are fixed, primarily This helps to minimise the overall level of net assets through the use of interest rate swaps, on a proportion of denominated in overseas currencies.
Typically, this means that above 70% of the Transactional all expected future cross-border cash flows over Groups forecast interest costs for the next 12 months will a rolling 12-month period, denominated in overseas currencies, be at fixed rates.
Swap contracts are matched to outstanding are hedged using spot and forward currency contracts.
borrowings so as to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 this means that the movement in the fair value of the swap is Translational the impact of currency movements on reported recorded in reserves rather than in the income statement.
For a profit some economic hedging of forecast profit in each sixswap to qualify for hedge accounting it has to meet the IAS 39 month reporting period takes place using forward contracts test of being highly effective.
in order to provide increased certainty of reported profit.
2007 2006 In assessing the Groups exposure to interest rate risks it should Closing Average Closing Average be noted that financing costs represent only approximately 5% Exchange rates rate rate rate rate Poland 4.90 5.53 5.68 5.71 of revenues and, therefore, changes in interest rates do not represent a significant risk.
The short-term nature of the loan Czech Republic 36.04 40.54 40.78 41.51 Slovakia 45.68 49.33 51.08 54.50 contracts also means that in the event of a significant increase in costs, we are able to re-price new business and reset the Hungary 343.14 366.75 372.57 386.85 Mexico 21.67 21.85 21.14 20.09 yield of the loan portfolio quickly, if deemed appropriate.
Romania 4.87 4.87 5.01 5.16 Currency risk This is the risk that currency movements have a material impact Counterparty risk on profit, cash flows or net assets.
This is the risk taken in relation to financial institutions.
This risk arises through operational banking arrangements, derivative and This represents a key area of risk for the Group, given forward currency transactions, and cash deposits.
The Group its operations in eight countries, including the UK, all with aims to minimise the level of cash deposits and does not hold different reporting currencies.
All of IPFs trading operations significant investments.
However, as a cash business, it does are denominated in currencies other than sterling.
This means hold cash balances in operational bank accounts for withdrawal that the value of the reported results and related assets and by agents to use in providing loans to customers.
liabilities, as well as cross-border transactions, are at risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations.
