Philosophy and approach The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process, involves identifying, understanding and managing the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in our day-to-day activities.
Group Risk Management part of Group Services independently monitors, manages and reports on our risk as mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk Review Committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward profile, helping us to pursue growth across our business.
Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the UK and South Africa and smaller risk divisions in other regions, to promote sound risk management practices.
Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
However, no bank can completely or accurately predict or fully assure the effectiveness of its policies and procedures for managing risk.
Group Risk Management's objectives 71 Group Risk Management's objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture.
Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently.
Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes.
Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions.
Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identified and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled.
Facilitate various risk committees, as mandated by the board.
Integrated global risk management structure Group Risk and Finance Director - Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk - Ciaran Whelan Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk - Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Mike Sargeant Gary Laughton Market Risk Mark Trollip Boaz Schechter Mark Trollip Adam Rapeport Asset and Liability Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Colin Fiddes Bharat Thakker Colin Fiddes Gavin Brandenburger Legal Risk David Nurek Lauren Ekon David Nurek Marie-Lyse Eliatamby Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Brigid Schrieder Mary Tiong Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Geoff Cook Belinda Dorfan Risk management Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as shown in the diagram and described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board Investec plc and Investec Limited - Board of Directors Audit and Audit Sub-Committees DLC Capital Committee Board Risk Review Committee Executive Risk Review Forum Audit and Compliance Group Credit Committees 72 Implementation Forums Group Deal Forum Group Market Risk Forum Internal Compliance Audit Asset and Liability Committees Operational Risk Forums Goup Legal Risk Forum Group Risk Management Australia, Botswana, Hong Kong, Mauritius, South Africa, UK, Europe and the USA Banking, Trading, Securities, Asset Management, Property Activities Risk management Committee Function Board Risk Review Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors See page 115. senior management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: bi-monthly Executive Risk Review Forum Members: executive directors and senior management See page 116.
Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: weekly Group Credit Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior Considers and approves the granting of credit to management counterparties in excess of the mandates granted to divisional Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director and other credit forums on a global basis.
Frequency: weekly Sets the level of our maximum acceptable counterparty, geographic, asset, concentration and industry exposures.
Reviews and approves changes to credit policy and methodologies, including: - Large exposure policy - dealing with the control of concentration risk and exposure measurement methodology.
- Provisioning policy - dealing with the classification of past due 73 amounts and minimum acceptable provisions.
- Excess management policy - dealing with the classification of excesses and prescribed escalation procedures.
- Long dated exposure by counterparty and instrument type.
- Property valuation policy - specifies the framework for valuation of physical security.
Group Deal Forum Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any management acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director transactions that we are considering.
Frequency: weekly Group Market Risk Forum Members: Global heads of risk, market risk and the trading Manages market risk by identifying and quantifying risks on the desks: senior management: members of the market risk basis of current and future expectations and ensuring that teams and other members of Group Risk Management trading occurs within defined parameters.
Chairman: Mark Trollip Global Head of Market Risk Reviews market risk limits.
Frequency: weekly Considers new business initiatives with a market risk element.
Asset and Liability Committee Members: executive, senior management, economist, treasurer, Sets our funding and liquidity policy and non-trading interest business heads and Head of Asset and Liability Management rate risk policy, which translates into a suite of limits that define Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director our risk appetite.
Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, models and risk measures.
Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests.
Risk management Committee Function Operational Risk Committee Members UK : Chief Risk Officer, Head of Operational Risk Promotes sound operational risk management practices.
Considers operational risk reports covering significant risk Chairman: Bharat Thakker UK and Colin Fiddes South Africa events, information security, outsourcing and business continuity.
Frequency: quarterly UK and semi-annually South Africa Considers and recommends the upgrading of operational risk In South Africa operational risk reports directly to the Board Risk management techniques in line with sound operational risk Review Committee.
Group Legal Risk Forum Members: executive directors, senior management and divisional Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
legal managers Chairman: David Nurek Global Head of Legal Risk Frequency: half-yearly or ad hoc if required DLC Capital Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior See page 116. management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: every six weeks DLC Audit Committee 74 Members: non-executive directors See page 113.
Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Frequency: minimum of three times a year Departments report to the Audit Committee.
Risk policy and procedures In our ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various risks, including credit, market, interest rate and liquidity, operational, legal and reputational risks.
Below is an overview of these types of risks and related developments that occurred during the period under review.
Credit risk management Credit risk description Credit risk represents the potential loss to the group as a result of: A counterparty being unable or unwilling to meet its obligations.
A deterioration in the credit quality of third parties to whom we are exposed.
Credit risk arises from two types of transactions: Lending transactions and positions in debt instruments the risk that a counterparty to a transaction will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and interest on loans and advances as they fall due.
Derivative transactions giving rise to settlement and replacement risk.
Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with us effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which we are entitled.
Continuous linked settlement and exchange settlement reduce the level of settlement risk in the banking system.
Replacement risk is the risk that a derivative instrument needs to be replaced following default by the original counterparty and that such replacement is done at a cost which equates to the mark-to-market of the trade at the date of replacement.
The nature and degree of credit risk vary depending on the type of business transactions entered.
Risk management Credit risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate credit risk, we have independent credit committees in each geography where we assume credit risk.
These committees operate under board approved delegated limits, policies and procedures.
A centralised decision making structure with decentralised limits is the basis on which applications for credit are assessed.
There is a high level of executive and non-executive involvement in credit decision making forums.
Decentralised limits tend to be relatively low to ensure a high degree of centralised involvement in all areas where credit risk is incurred.
All decisions to enter a transaction are based on unanimous consent.
In addition to the Group Credit Committee, the following specialist forums assist in managing, measuring and monitoring credit risk: Watchlist Committee, which reviews the management of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision.
Corporate Watch Committee, which oversees and manages exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange rate or interest rate movements.
Country risk appetite is approved as required by the Credit Committee as part of the normal credit application process.
Country risk appetite is generally limited to that required for specific transactions entered with counterparties whose credit quality and ability to service their debt are dependent on the socio-economic environment of the country of application.
The creditworthiness, ability and desire to maintain capital flows, together with past management experience relating to the cross-border risk, will be considered in assessing whether deal based limits are within the appetite of the group and legal entity in question.
Management and measurement of credit risk We use the following fundamental principles to manage credit risk: A clear definition of our target market.
A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties.
An analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk considerations include asset class, industry, 75 counterparty, and geographical concentration.
Regular monitoring of existing and potential exposures once facilities have been approved.
A high level of executive involvement in and non-executive awareness of decision-making and review.
Consistent, regular reporting of credit risk exposures within our operating units is made to management, the executives and the board.
The board regularly reviews the appetite for credit risk, which is documented in risk appetite statements and policy documents and implemented by our Group Credit division.
Credit risk in the UK and Europe The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, including a branch in Ireland and banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises mainly through our Private Banking and Capital Markets activities, which include inter-bank placements and asset finance activities.
Some settlement risk is assumed in the Investment Banking division, but is to approved market counterparties.
Private Bank The Private Bank has businesses in the UK London and Manchester, including branches in Ireland, the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises from the following activities which we undertake in the division: structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending, growth and acquisition finance, and asset based lending on receivables and stock.
The Structured Property Finance area provides senior debt, mezzanine and equity funding for property transactions covering the residential and commercial markets.
Our exposure to the property market is well diversified with no individual concentration risk.
Our properties are well located residential or good quality commercial assets with recognised tenant covenant.
Our property assets are located in the UK, with limited exposure to retail property assets in Germany and Switzerland, which are anchored by major European retail covenants.
Client quality and expertise are at the core of our credit philosophy, ensuring a low probability of default.
Furthermore, robust debt service cover ratios and reasonable loan to values ensure a low level of expected loss, which is supported by low historical actual losses.
Where a more commercial view is taken on debt structure and leverage, significantly increased returns are expected.
All facilities are reviewed at least annually and property values are monitored by our appointed panel valuation firms.
Committees review and monitor our mezzanine and equity property funding exposure on a quarterly basis.
Growth and Acquisition Finance provides mezzanine or composite debt funding to successful entrepreneurs, management teams, private equity houses and UK based mid-market companies that are implementing acquisition and organic growth strategies.
Deal sizes typically range between 8 million and 20 million.
Credit risk is assessed against the debt service coverage and robustness of the cash generation for the business both historically and against forecasts.
Other factors include the quality of the management team and the amortisation profile of the debt package.
Risk management Asset Based Lending provides working capital and business loans secured on collateral or assets used in the conduct of the business, for example, account receivables, inventory, plant and machinery, and property.
We also provide advances against cash flow or other assets such as committed income or rights.
Lending includes variable funding on variable assets and term loans on fixed assets.
Specialised Lending provides bespoke credit facilities and hedging options to high net worth individuals and financially sophisticated clients.
This involves securities lending against holders of listed equities and transaction facilitation, where we work with clients, law firms and trust companies to facilitate financial planning and structuring for their clients.
We also provide funding secured on sports and media related cash flows, including intellectual property rights and sponsorship transactions where certainty of serviceability, client quality and expertise are key considerations.
Private Client Lending provides bespoke mortgages and secured lending to high net worth and high income individuals.
Loan sizes range between 0.5 million and 10 million with long-term durations.
Credit risk is assessed against robust debt servicing cover ratios.
Lending is underpinned by good quality assets, including residential and commercial property, bank guarantees, discretionary investment portfolios and cash deposits.
In determining serviceability, we also consider the liquidity of the client, including cash reserves and liquid asset holdings.
Funding is characterised by long-term annuity income and a historically low probability of default.
Property assets are located predominantly in the UK, with limited exposure to prime residential areas in France and Spain.
Capital Markets The bulk of Capital Markets activities are conducted from London.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with banks and other financial institutions.
These professional counterparties are highly rated with credit risk of a systemic nature.
Our trading book consists of positions in interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities and equities.
Credit risk arises from standard trading risks such as settlement, counterparty and replacement risk.
We maintain a thorough risk process that reviews and monitors all potential credit risks inherent in customer trading facilities.
These positions are marked to market daily with margin calls where 76 necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
Within the Structured Finance business, credit risk can arise from structured finance, project and resource financing, asset finance, acquisition finance and corporate lending activities.
There are approved limits specifying the maximum exposure to each individual counterparty, to ensure there is no concentration risk.
Facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying corporate.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security and cash flow.
While most of the activities of our Capital Markets division are concentrated in Europe, any exposure to counterparties outside this jurisdiction is mitigated through a stringent country risk approval and monitoring process, and covered by political risk insurance where deemed appropriate.
Our Principal Finance securitisation area has a non-conforming mortgage origination platform.
Assets are gathered from intermediaries and administered externally.
These assets are well spread and are warehoused on a short-term basis and securitised periodically.
The group also securitises assets that it has originated in its Asset Finance business.
Investment Banking Credit exposures arise from trading activities with market counterparties.
These are all on a delivery versus payment basis, through major share exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the event of counterparty failure and would be linked to any mark to market losses on the underlying security.
Credit risk in South Africa Credit risk is assumed mainly through our Private Banking, Capital Markets, and Asset Finance activities ReichmansCapital.
Private Banking Our lending product, offered through our structured property and growth and acquisition finance activities, supports the needs of our clients.
Central to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the cycle.
As such, the client base has been defined to include high net worth clients who through diversification of income streams will reduce income volatility and individuals with a profession which has historically supported a high and sustainable income stream irrespective of stage in the economic cycle.
The combination of low probability of default clients due to our niche focus and low and decreasing loan to value ratios results in a low level of expected loss, which has been borne out by historical experience of actual losses.
Residential mortgages and commercial property make up the bulk of our lending exposure.
Exposure to commercial, retail and industrial properties are generally at conservative loan to value ratios.
Income producing assets are generally substantially let with good quality anchor tenants.
Risk management Exposure to the South African property market is well spread among the regions in which we mainly operate Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth.
This risk is mitigated by reviewing all properties offered as security prior to advancing funds.
Our internal valuers or a bank approved panel of external valuers also regularly review commercial property values.
Furthermore, serviceability of a loan advanced against property is a primary consideration in the credit assessment process and not only asset value.
Clients have used and are increasingly using fixed rate funding, which should mitigate potential upward shifts in interest rates and increased interest rate volatility.
Capital Markets Investec Corporate Treasury provides money market and foreign exchange products to corporates and investors.
We are an active market maker in the spot and forward US Dollar Rand interbank markets.
Trading transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement risk were among the primary areas of potential credit risk in the year under review.
Scenario analyses were performed regularly for clients whose exposures showed a material level of volatility as a result of these factors.
The Specialised Finance, Project Finance and Resource Finance businesses lend money on a structured basis to corporates, government and institutions, with full recourse, to either a suitable asset or to the balance sheet of the entity to which the funds are advanced.
Typical assets that are funded include property, plant and equipment, infrastructure and movable assets.
Credit limits are set for each counterparty and monitored to ensure risk is mitigated.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash flow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the underlying security traded.
The Resource Finance business may be exposed to countries presenting complex legal and political risks.
Extensive knowledge of Africa which represents the bulk of the exposure in this business unit, good technical and financial skills, and strong adherence to prudent country risk limits ensure that concentration risks are well managed.
Exposures are monitored continuously and assets provided as security in support of borrowing facilities are generally easily realisable.
Most of the Resource Finance business activities form part of the corporate asset class as defined by Basel ll, since recourse in the event of default will be to the total assets of the corporate and not merely the resources being financed.
Transactions are structured so that scenarios resulting in increased exposure coincide with increased profitability of the entity being financed and thus a relatively stable expected loss.
77 ReichmansCapital ReichmansCapital is an asset finance business which operates on a premium margin business model for small and medium sized corporates.
The business is a relatively small component of the overall credit risk we accept.
Credit risk in Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking services and its primary business activities are corporate lending, property finance and structured finance, servicing corporate and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are monitored daily to ensure that should excesses occur, they are identified timeously and remedial action is taken promptly, if necessary.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is an autonomous subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval and management process in compliance with our group credit philosophy, policy and procedures, as well as the Central Bank of Mauritius' regulatory framework.
Credit risk in Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly defined framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and procedures for credit risk management are consistent with those of the group and comply with the prudential standards issued by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority.
Credit risk is assumed through transacting with target private and corporate clients, project and resource finance, and the placement of surplus liquidity with highly rated domestic banks and financial institutions.
Asset quality analysis - credit risk classification and provisioning policy It is our policy that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments promptly when required and on a consistent basis.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the Watchlist Committee.
In our financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with IFRS.
The information provided below reflects the guidelines and definitions that we have applied for assessing the asset quality of our credit exposures see page 78.
These definitions and guidelines are consistent with IFRS.
IFRS differs from the requirements laid out in the Basel Accord Basel ll, which is to be adopted as a benchmark by banking regulators as from 1 January 2008.
IFRS focuses on the concept of incurred loss, whereas Basel ll centres on the concept of expected loss.
The reconciling differences are primarily due to the fact that IFRS impairments only reflect a decrease in the value of credit risky assets where a loss trigger event has occurred, and only that portion of the expected loss which has actually been incurred at the reporting date.
A loss trigger event is an event which exhibits a high correlation to the crystallisation of loss.
Risk management Regulatory and IFRS impairment treatment Arrears, Description economic capital default and classification recoveries classification category Performing assets For assets which form part of a Current homogenous portfolio a portfolio Special mention Obligor is experiencing difficulties that may impairment is required which recognises threaten the bank's position.
asset impairments that have not been Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if individually identified.
The portfolio adverse conditions persist.
impairment takes into account past Credit exposures overdue for more than 60 days events and does not cover impairments and less than 90 days will at a minimum be to exposures arising out of uncertain included in Special mention or a lower quality future events.
impairment is only calculated for credit Supplementary reporting categories: exposures which are managed on a - Past due 0-14 days past payment due date.
portfolio basis and only for assets where - Past due 15-29 days past payment due date.
a loss trigger event has occurred.
- Arrears 30-59 days past payment due date.
- Special mention 60-89 days past payment due date.
Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on a Sub-standard Well defined weakness that may lead to probable case-by-case basis where objective loss if not corrected.
evidence of impairment has arisen.
In Probable that asset will become impaired.
determining specific impairments, the The bank is relying, to a large extent, on available following factors are considered: security.
The primary sources of repayment are 78 Business unit's exposure to the insufficient to service the remaining contractual customer.
principal and interest amounts, and the bank has to Capability of the client to generate rely on secondary sources for repayment.
These sufficient cash flow to service debt secondary sources may include collateral, the sale obligations and the ongoing viability of a fixed asset, refinancing and further capital.
Credit exposures overdue for more than 90 days Likely dividend or amount recoverable and less than 180 days will at a minimum be on liquidation or bankruptcy.
included in Sub-standard or a lower quality Nature and extent of claims by other category.
Any fully secured exposures will be creditors.
included in Sub-standard or a lower quality Amount and timing of expected cash category where they are overdue by more than flows.
Realisable value of security held or Doubtful Assets are considered to be impaired but not yet other credit mitigants.
considered a final loss due to some pending factors Ability of the client to make such as a merger, new financing or capital injection.
payments in the foreign currency, for These factors may strengthen the quality of the foreign currency denominated relevant exposure.
Credit exposures are not adequately secured.
The said weaknesses make collection in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable.
Credit exposures overdue for 180 days or more will at a minimum be included in Doubtful or a lower quality category.
Loss Credit exposures classified as Loss are considered to be uncollectable once collection efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been unsuccessful.
Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets is remote.
Risk management Asset quality and impairments 'million 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 Total loans and advances to customers gross of impairments 10 230 9 646 Specific impairments 33 31 Portfolio impairments 7 10 Total impairments 40 41 Gross default loans 123 91 Sub-standard 42 21 Doubtful 41 48 Loss 40 22 Less: security 94 62 Net default loans pre impairments held against these loans 29 29 Adequacy of impairments Specific impairments as a % of loans and advances to customers 0.32% 0.32% Portfolio impairments as a % of net loans and advances to customers 0.07% 0.10% Total impairments as a % of loans and advances to customers 0.39% 0.43% Total impairments as a % gross default loans 32.52% 45.05% Total impairments as a % of net default loans 137.93% 141.38% Specific impairments as a % of gross default loans 26.83% 34.07% 79 Specific impairments as a % of net default loans 113.79% 106.90% Gross default loans as a % of loans and advances to customers 1.20% 0.94% Asset quality by geography 'million Loans Portfolio Specific Total Gross Security Net and  held default advances ments ments ments loans against loans default loans 31 March 2007 UK and Europe 4 012 2 6 8 34 26 8 Southern Africa 5 545 5 17 22 71 59 12 Australia 673 - 10 10 18 9 9 Total group 10 230 7 33 40 123 94 29 31 March 2006 UK and Europe 3 238 1 7 8 19 11 8 Southern Africa 6 004 9 23 32 70 51 19 Australia 404 - 1 1 2 - 2 Total group 9 646 10 31 41 91 62 29 As part of our Basel process we have revisited the definitions applied in terms of our asset quality information and refined these across divisions and geographies.
There have been some minor changes as a result, and the 2006 information as depicted above has been restated accordingly.
Definitions applied are explained on page 78.
Risk management Loans and advances to customers by loan type At 31 March 2007 2006 000 Category analysis Commercial property loans 3 486 799 2 816 243 Residential mortgages 1 932 566 1 872 477 Leases and instalment debtors 340 050 306 933 Corporate and public sector loans and advances 2 764 650 2 864 206 Other private bank lending 1 161 590 1 352 121 Other loans and advances 544 586 433 735 10 230 241 9 645 715 Specific impairment 33 194 31 056 Portfolio impairment 6 795 10 070 10 190 252 9 604 589 Loans and advances to customer by loan type: Loans and advances to customer by loan type: 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 5.3% 4.5% 11.4% 14.0% 29.2% 34.1% 80 27.0% 29.7% 19.4% 18.9% 3.3% 3.2% Commercial property loans Residential mortgages Leases and instalment debtors Corporate and public sector Other private banking Other loans and advances loans and advances lending Risk management Securitisations As mentioned on page 76, the UK has developed a Principal Finance business over the last two years.
In South Africa, our securitisation business, which forms part of our Structured Finance unit, was established approximately six years ago when the debt capital markets commenced development in South Africa.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
Furthermore, we have securitised assets we have originated in our Private Banking business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Banking division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding.
Act as a mechanism to transfer risk.
Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
For accounting purposes, the full amount of the securitisation assets are reflected on the face of the balance sheet where Investec plc, Investec Limited or any of their subsidiaries retain an effective equity stake in the special purpose securitisation vehicle, whether or not the risk on the assets has been transferred to third parties.
Where the majority of risks and rewards have been transferred to third parties, only the retained portion is reflected on the balance sheet.
The table below shows securitised assets which were originated on the balance sheet of an Investec group entity and subsequently transferred to a securitisation vehicle and the full amount of the securitisation is reflected on the face of the group's balance sheet.
The analysis excludes investments in asset backed securities where the underlying assets were not originated by the group and for which no obligation by way of a liquidity facility exists.
As at 31 March 2007 2006 'million 81 First loss tranches 10 5 Second loss tranches 55 Investment in securitisation paper 15 9 Investment in securitisations 30 19 Liquidity facilities 53 75 Total value of securitised assets retained by Investec group entity 83 94 Total value of securitised assets held by third parties 521 330 Total value of securitised assets subject to the liquidity facility 604 424 These assets relate to the South African private banking book.
Credit risk mitigation The bulk of collateral taken by the group within the Private Bank division, which makes up a substantial portion of our on balance sheet assets, is commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good quality property underpinned by strong third party leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality, reflecting our clients' appetite for investments in desirable locations.
In the period under review, there was ongoing strong growth in the value of commercial and residential real estate in all our key operating jurisdictions UK, South Africa and Australia.
This will result in increases in the valuation of security and consequently decreasing loan to value ratios.
Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, cash, shares and share portfolios.
The bulk of collateral received is considered to be liquid as a result of strict liquidity policies for financial collateral and the strength and relative liquidity of real estate markets, particularly in areas where client investment is concentrated.
The bulk of credit mitigation within our Treasury activities is in the form of netting primarily International Swap Dealers Association, Global Master Securities Lending Agreement and International Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through Credit Support Agreements.
Where we have signed netting agreements for which the enforceability is supported by external legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the agreement, the exposures for all product categories covered by such agreements will be stated net of any liabilities owing by Investec to the agreement counterparty for those product categories.
We are implementing a group-wide centralised security register.
The current practice is to record security value and nature in source systems when received and revalue the security annually or as required by the credit committee.
The credit administration system includes a functionality to prevent the release of security without approval from an authorised credit forum.
Risk management Credit risk year in review Basel II From a credit risk perspective there has been significant investment in people and technology in order to re-engineer existing credit process in such a way as to meet additional requirements of the jurisdictional regulators which are in the process of being aligned to the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Bank of International Settlements.
This reengineering of credit processes is being conducted within the context of Investec's core credit philosophy.
UK and Europe The loan portfolio increased by 24.0% to 4.0 billion, driven largely by solid growth in our Structured Property Lending and Acquisition Finance businesses.
We have seen sustained growth in the UK housing market, driven by the shortage of housing and net immigration.
These trends are expected to be maintained or stabilise in 2007, where growth in the UK property market is estimated at 6%, led by continued price rises in prime southern locations, Ireland and Scotland.
The marginal increases in UK interest rates, against a backdrop of anticipated house price correction, has had a minimal effect on our core client base of high net worth and market professional individuals who can afford rate rises and have significant equity at risk.
The European residential market has seen moderate growth, driven by solid market fundamentals, further yield compression and ongoing development in Eastern Europe.
Growth is expected to continue in 2007, with estimated price increases in some parts of Central Europe of up to 20%.
Continued demand from the emerging markets and strong supply demand fundamentals from investors and speculators has led to record gains of up to 43% in commodities prices.
This has resulted in the increased viability and profitability of marginal producers and demand for resource financing alongside a further focus on price risk hedging for wholesale consumers.
82 The US sub-prime mortgage market experienced increased volatility and higher defaults as a result of an oversupply of property, higher interest rates and the quality of borrowers.
Our exposure is limited to the extent of a small number of equity positions.
Substantially, our warehouse risk on these transactions is underwritten predominantly by other financial institutions.
Our exposure in this sector remains low.
The quality of the overall loan portfolio in the UK and Europe remains satisfactory with gross default loans as a percentage of total loans of 0.85%.
South Africa The loan portfolio increased by 22.5% to R78.4 billion.
Over the past financial year, a number of financial market trends had an impact on the assessment of our credit risk.
These trends include: Upward pressure on interest rates the prime lending rate increased from 10.5% at 31 March 2006 to 12.5% at 31 March 2007 but a negative yield curve, indicating an expectation of future interest rate cuts.
Moderate levels of Rand volatility and a substantial depreciation in the Rand against the US Dollar.
Highly volatile and high real prices of oil and metals both base and precious.
Strong equity markets and a slowdown in the real growth of residential and commercial property.
Upward pressure on food prices as a result of the effects of the drought on the agricultural sector.
Risk management While the South African property market has been more resilient than that of the more established first world economies, we are conscious of the potential effect of the combination of a slowdown of growth in the property market both global and local and upward pressure on interest rates.
For this reason, we constantly monitor property exposures by stress testing the property portfolio.
This is undertaken by assuming a sharp fall in property values and assessing the resultant loan to value ratios, changes in the ability of the borrower to service or repay from independent means and interest rate shocks resulting in rental income falling below interest expenses.
The high net worth and or stable income streams shown by our target market clients provide a level of protection from decreases in property values, should a declining trend occur in the future.
Over the past few years, as property values increased, these clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios, which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
As a result of the early realisation of profits in respect of precious metal hedges mainly gold subsequent to corporate action in the mining sector, our exposure to corporate commodity producers is significantly lower than in the prior year.
As detailed above, the Rand has devalued significantly against the US Dollar over the past year and has shown higher levels of volatility compared to the prior year.
An increase in client flow, together with greater hedging activity due to higher levels of volatility, has resulted in increased profitability and exposure in the Treasury Foreign Exchange business.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange products, we have advanced exposure simulation methodologies, which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
These simulation methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure profiles and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
The quality of the overall loan portfolio in Southern Africa remains satisfactory with gross default loans as a percentage of total loans of 1.28%.
Australia 83 The loan portfolio increased by 63.2% to A$1.6 billion, driven by growth across all business streams and the acquisition of NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited.
Market risk management Market risk description Market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The Market Risk Management team identifies, quantifies and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is on supporting client activity.
Our philosophy is that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
Market risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate market risk, we have independent market risk management teams in each geography where we assume market risk.
Local limits have been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk tolerance levels.
A Global Market Risk Forum mandated by the various boards of directors manages the market risks in accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Risk limits are reviewed and set at the Global Market Risk Forum and ratified at the Executive Risk Review Forum.
Limits are reviewed either annually, in the event of a significant market event e. g. 11 September 2001, or at the discretion of senior management.
Management and measurement of market risk Market risk management teams review the market risks on our books and ensure that we are prudently positioned, taking into account agreed policies, prevailing markets and liquidity, hedging strategies and the relationship between risk and reward.
Detailed risk reports are produced daily for each trading desk.
These reports are distributed to management and the traders on the desk.
Any unauthorised excesses are recorded and require an explanation from the desk, including a satisfactory explanation for the excess.
The production of risk reports allows for the monitoring of every instrument traded against prescribed limits.
Trading is also limited to the most liquid instruments and each traded instrument undergoes various stresses and the potential loss arising is assessed.
Each trading desk is monitored on an overall basis as an additional control.
Risk management Trading limits are generally tiered with the most liquid and least risky instruments being assigned the largest limits.
The market risk teams perform a profit attribution, where our daily traded income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on a day-to-day basis.
An understanding of the sources of profit and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify the market risk arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis, Value at Risk VaR and Expected Tail Loss ETL.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
VaR numbers are monitored at the 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss confidence intervals.
ETLs are monitored at the 95% and 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers the impact of a significant market event on our current trading portfolios.
We consider the impact for the 10 days after the event, not merely the instantaneous shock to the markets.
The following scenarios are analysed: October 1987, Black Monday, 11 September 2001 and the December Rand crisis in 2001.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and depend on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored through back testing.
This involves comparing the actual trading revenues arising from the previous day's closing positions with the one-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a back testing breach is considered to have occurred.
VaR 95% one-day 31 March 2007 Investec Investec Consoli- '000 plc Limited dated Commodities 79 26 93 Equity derivatives 124 458 475 84 Foreign exchange 56662 Interest rates 77 40 103 Consolidated 179 495 518 High 539 979 1 034 Low 130 196 267 Average 238 459 586 31 March 2006 Investec Investec Consoli- '000 plc Limited dated Commodities 36 - 36 Equity derivatives 212 289 404 Foreign exchange 8 133 131 Interest rates 14 134 159 Consolidated 203 341 478 High 820 1 013 1 330 Low 160 108 204 Average 373 514 771 The consolidated VaR for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the correlation offset between the various asset classes.
Risk management The graphs below show total daily VaR and profit and loss figures for the trading activities of Investec plc and Investec Limited over the reporting period.
The values are for the 99% one-day VaR i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
The Investec Limited VaR numbers show two exceptions for the period under review as a result of losses sustained on the Interest Rates desk due to adverse moves in South African consumer price inflation.
ETL 95% one-day 31 March 2007 Investec Investec Consoli- '000 plc Limited dated Commodities 126 47 141 Equity derivatives 158 643 669 Foreign exchange 6 170 166 Interest rates 150 55 181 Consolidated 248 692 736 The consolidated ETL for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual ETLs.
The portfolio stress tested under extreme conditions 15 standard deviations will result in a loss of 2.2 million in Investec plc, 4.6 million in Investec Limited and 6.7 million on a consolidated group basis based on a one-day holding period.
Stress testing 31 March 2007 Investec Investec Consoli- '000 plc Limited dated Commodities 602 197 799 Equity derivatives 946 3 508 4 454 Foreign exchange 37 509 546 Interest rates 587 347 934 Consolidated 2 172 4 561 6 733 86 31 March 2006 Investec Investec Consoli- '000 plc Limited dated Commodities 277 - 277 Equity derivatives 1 626 2 212 3 838 Foreign exchange 62 1 021 1 083 Interest rates 109 1 023 1 132 Consolidated 2 074 4 256 6 330 Market risk mitigation The Market Risk Management team is located outside the dealing room, thereby ensuring independence.
The risk management software runs independently from source trading systems and values all trades separately.
The values from the two systems are compared daily.
The values from the risk system are also used for profit attribution, another risk management tool.
Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in the group risk appetite policy and are calculated on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits include VaR and ETL analyses at various confidence intervals, as well as disaster scenarios where the 15 standard deviation adverse market move is considered.
Historical VaR is used, where every risk factor is exposed to daily moves over the past year.
With the equity markets, for example, every share and index is considered independently as opposed to techniques where proxies are used.
Non-statistical limits include product limits, tenor, notional, liquidity, buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
When setting and reviewing these limits, current market conditions are taken into account.
Bucket limits are set on time buckets, generally at three-month intervals out to two years and then, on a less granular basis, out to 30 years.
Market risk year in review In South Africa, we obtained approval of our internal model for market risk from the South African Reserve Bank, which has put us at the level of the advanced approach for Basel II.
In terms of this model, trading capital is calculated as a function of VaR at the 99% confidence level and back testing results will be submitted to the regulator monthly.
In the UK, all desks are currently at Capital Adequacy CAD l level and will be applying for CAD ll later in the year.
The past year was characterised by strong, albeit volatile, growth in the equity, commodity and bond markets.
These market conditions, coupled with good client flows and product sales, resulted in a strong performance from the South African Equity Derivatives desk.
In the UK, the business plan for the Equity Derivatives desk was re-evaluated.
As a result, the quantum of risk on the desk decreased.
A new Fixed Income Market Making desk was established and trades options and futures on short Sterling and Euribor.
We obtained CAD l model approval for these new options.
In Australia, the acquisition of the NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited business resulted in the introduction of commodity trading and hedging transactions in that jurisdiction.
The market risk limits approved are modest and use is low.
Risk management Market risk - derivatives We enter various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on pages 195 and 196.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Balance sheet risk governance structure Regional Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs, within each geography, are mandated by their respective boards of directors and the group to manage the balance sheet risks on a consistent basis with pre-approved principles and policies, using regional 87 expertise and local market access.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
The size, materiality, complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access to stable funds determine the risk appetite for the region.
Specific statutory requirements further dictate what policies are adopted in each region.
The Balance Sheet Risk Management team independently identifies, quantifies and monitors risks, providing independent governance and oversight of the Treasury activities within the Capital Markets division and the execution of the bank's policy to management, ALCO, the Executive Risk Review Forum, the Board Risk Review Committee and the board of directors.
Balance sheet risk mitigation The Treasury function centrally directs the raising of wholesale liabilities, establishes and maintains access to stable funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, and manages liquid securities and collateral.
The Treasury function is the sole interface with the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions, and actively manages the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
It is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and nontrading interest rate risk within defined parameters.
Balance Sheet Risk Management combines traditional gap analysis and quantitative models, including stress tests.
This is designed to measure the range of possible future liquidity needs and potential distribution of net interest income and economic value over various scenarios covering a spectrum of situations in which we could find ourselves and prepare accordingly.
The modelling process is supported by ongoing technical and economic analysis.
Our balance sheet risk position is regularly reported to management, the Executive Risk Review Forum, the Board Risk Review Committee and the board of directors.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or decreases in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of interest rate risk include volatility and changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios.
We are also exposed to basis risk, which is the difference in repricing characteristics of two floating-rate indices, such as the South African prime rate and three-month Jibar.
Risk management Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed from an earnings and economic value perspective.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income in accordance with the board-approved risk management framework.
The standard tools that are used to measure the sensitivity of earnings to changes in the level and shape of interest rates are the repricing gap, net interest income sensitivity and economic value sensitivity.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book interest rate risk.
Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred from the originating business to the Treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Treasury function implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk.
Interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans and deposits with a term of more than one year is materially hedged through the purchase and sale of interest rate swaps on a back-to-back basis.
The Treasury function also has a mandate to take advantage of opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles, by tactically responding to market opportunities, within predefined risk limits.
We base our interest rate risk management processes on the following steps: Measurement and assessment of interest rate mismatch gaps detailing the sources of interest rate exposure at a point in time.
This forms the basis for translation into interest income sensitivity analysis and economic value sensitivity analysis, where appropriate, over a range of interest rate scenarios.
Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments by geography and global trends.
Implementation of appropriate balance sheet hedging strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigate any residual undesirable risk.
Daily management of interest rate risk by the Treasury function, subject to independent ALCO review.
The tables below and on the following page show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate 88 margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Management and measurement of liquidity risk Liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market confidence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.
To accomplish this, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that consider market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.
We are an active participant in the global financial markets.
We have instituted various offshore syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets.
These markets serve as a cost-effective source of funds and are a valuable component of our overall liquidity management.
Decisions on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
We place great value on the establishment of strong relationships with all our investors and we maintain an active presence in the money markets in each geography in which we operate.
We acknowledge the importance of our private clients as the principal source of stable and well diversified funding for our Private Bank risk assets.
We continue to develop products to attract and service the investment needs of our Private Bank clients.
Although the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, in practice such accounts remain a stable 90 source of funds.
Our Private Bank continued to successfully raise private client deposits through a period of significant asset growth.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset securitisation structures in connection with the sale of certain mortgages.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our current funding profile, but provides additional flexibility and source of liquidity.
These entities form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as reported.
Our funding and liquidity capacity is not reliant on these entities to any material extent.
Our liquidity management processes are based on the following elements, using principles set out by the Financial Services Authority FSA, the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA : Maintenance of a stock of readily available, high quality liquid assets and near cash in excess of the statutory requirements as well as strong balance sheet liquidity ratios.
Preparation of cash flow projections assets and liabilities and funding requirements corresponding to the forecasted cash flow mismatch, which are translated into shortand long-term funding strategies within each legal entity and globally.
Maintaining an appropriate mix of term funding.
Management of concentration risk, being undue reliance on any single counterpart or counterpart group, sector, market, product, instrument, currency and tenor.
Daily monitoring and reporting of cash flow measurement and projections, for the key periods for liquidity management, against the risk limits set.
Performing assumptions-based scenario analysis to assess potential cash flows at risk.
Maintenance of liquidity contingency plans and the identification of alternative sources of funds in the market.
This is to ensure that cash flow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse business and economic scenarios, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could significantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch, which represents our contractual cash obligations and commercial commitments.
Includes other trading liabilities, current taxation liabilities, deferred taxation liabilities and other liabilities.
The above table excludes assets and liabilities relating to the long-term assurance business attributable to policyholders.
Pound Sterling interest rates - the monetary policy cycle moved back into a tightening phase, with the UK Monetary Policy Committee raising base rates in August 2006.
Further moves followed in November 2006 and January 2007 to take the level of official rates up to 5.25% at year end.
The yield curve is factoring in a further increase over the coming months.
Euro interest rates - the European Central Bank continued to raise its refinancing rate over the year at intervals of between two to three months.
There is strong consensus that policy will be tightened soon.
Significant uncertainties exist around the outlook for interest rates during the second half of 2007 and beyond.
Rand interest rates - the monetary policy cycle moved back into a tightening phase, with the SARB Monetary Policy Committee raising the repo rate four times in 2006, in 50 basis point increments.
Consequently, the repo rate ended the year at 9.0% and the prime rate at 12.5%.
The yield curve at the end of March 2007 was factoring in a sharp decrease in rates in the mid to longer end, and only a very modest hike in the short end.
Australian interest rates - 2006 was a year marked by diverse state growth patterns across Australia.
High commodity prices lifted profits and business investment rose to record highs.
Inflation hung around at the top end of the Reserve Bank of Australia's desired range, and against this background, the Reserve Bank raised the cash rates three times, by a total of 0.75%, to 6.25% by November 2006.
The Reserve Bank has been signalling its intentions from a balance of risks perspective for some time now and, as the March 2007 quarter came to a close, the market was pricing in another 0.25% rise.
USD interest rates - the Federal Open Market Committee continued to raise the Fed funds target gradually at the beginning of the financial year, but there has not been a policy move since the June 2006 meeting, which took official rates up to 5.25%.
Senior Fed officials continue to express disquiet over the current level of inflation and the risk that it might not fall, but the yield curve is pricing in the next move to be a cut.
We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity well above internal and external liquidity targets, while growing our profitable lending portfolios.
These initiatives were designed to further diversify sources of funding and maintain surplus medium-term liquidity at low rates to facilitate asset growth.
Key initiatives included the following: Investec Bank Limited raised a $340 million five-year syndicated loan at LIBOR plus 35 basis points in January 2007.
This was done 94 to diversify support for the Rand balance sheet across term and geography and to exploit improved investor sentiment towards emerging markets.
We also set up a $1.5 billion EMTN programme, which is listed in Luxembourg, for similar reasons.
Investec Bank UK Limited launched three Schuldschein transactions in November 2006, raising e370 million three-year money at a spread of 25 basis points over three-month Euribor.
The 280 million transaction was a record in terms of size for the Schuldschein market.
The deal attracted 16 banks, most of which had not previously participated in any of our other funding transactions.
The proceeds of the issues will be used to fund longer dated assets on Investec Bank UK Limited's balance sheet, freeing up inter-bank capacity to fund shorter dated assets.
Investec Bank UK Limited implemented a successful Upper Tier II capital raising exercise in January 2007, raising 350 million 10-year capital at swaps plus121 basis points all-in.
The order book reached 1.9 billion and we had 12 orders of 50 million or more.
Investec Bank UK Limited's Central Treasury implemented tri-party repo agreements which enabled us to liquify our FRN holdings as required and thereby facilitate our ability to fund the Dublin branch up to e1.5 billion over short periods.
Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired and integrated the banking business of NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited Rothschild's in July 2006.
This acquisition included gaining access to more than A$1.6 billion of funding and over A$1 billion of liquid and treasury trading assets.
We also integrated the former Rothschild's Debt Issuance Programme infrastructure and confirmed relationships with a wide range of new funding counterparties.
In addition to our Moody's rating, we undertook and gained an investment grade rating from Fitch Ratings.
Going forward, we expect to refresh our Debt Issuance Programme and undertake an inaugural domestic bond issue to raise medium-term funding and continue to develop Investec Bank Australia Limited's profile in the domestic and regional debt markets, while building new and deepening existent wholesale funding relationships.
On the Rand funding side, there was rapid growth in balance sheet, deposit and surplus cash sizes.
The three are linked as we respond appropriately to rapid asset growth and increases in Private Bank call funding.
Risks to income increased as the prime-Jibar gap narrowed.
This was largely due to pressures from banks competing to raise term deposits to fund high asset creation.
Income pressures were exacerbated by the increasing opportunity cost of holding liquid assets as banks fought to balance rising needs with limited supply.
Risk management Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from failed or inadequate internal processes, people and technology, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a significant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices.
Operational risk governance structure A common understanding of the definition of operational risk and its impact throughout the organisation is key to the successful management of operational risk.
The governance structure for Operational Risk Management is outlined below.
Board The board reviews and monitors operational risk through the Board Risk Review Committees and Audit Committees.
Group Operational Risk Management An independent specialist Group Operational Risk Management function promotes consistent and sound operational risk management practices and processes across the group, including enterprise risk programmes, e. g. business continuity and financial crime.
In addition, subject matter experts focus on information security and change management.
Senior management 95 Senior management is responsible for the implementation and management of operational risk at business unit level through a network of embedded risk managers.
Embedded risk managers are responsible to Group Operational Risk Management for compliance with and implementation of the operational risk management framework.
Operational risk management framework We have implemented an operational risk management framework as well as policies, practices and a technology system to provide a comprehensive means of promoting operational risk management throughout the group.
The framework sets out a structured and consistent approach to implementing a systematic, effective and efficient process across the organisation to manage operational risk and thereby improve business performance and regulatory compliance.
Operational risk identification and risk assessments The risk assessment process is central to the operational risk management framework.
A qualitative risk assessment is conducted using an identified universe of operational risks contained in a risk assessment framework, as a first step to promote consistency.
The assessment of risks and controls is conducted at individual business unit and review levels.
Risk assessments are subject to treatment and escalation in terms of our operational risk appetite policy.
Operational risk events We respond to risk events with appropriate analysis and actions to correct and minimise losses and improve controls.
Thresholds are in place for the monitoring and escalation of recorded events, which are in line with the risk appetite policy.
Operational risk indicators Indicators provide information that allows management to assess the effectiveness of the controls and to highlight potential issues.
Enterprise risk programmes Business continuity risk Business continuity encompasses the planning, design, operation and management of business processes and technologies to minimise the disruption caused in the event of a disaster or business interruption.
Senior management is responsible for maintaining a crisis management as well as a business continuity capability for each of our geographical locations.
A network of business continuity coordinators has responsibility for embedding our business continuity capability.
This capability is subject to independent monitoring, review and assessment by both Group Operational Risk Management and Internal Audit.
Information security risk Our information security process is based on the international standard ISO 17799, which promotes common processes and standards across all business units and country operations.
Information security risk is assessed as part of the risk assessment framework.
Information security is overseen by our Group Information Security Officer.
Risk management Risk management IT change management risk Change management includes all systems changes to live and business continuity environments.
Changes follow approval and adequate testing before implementation.
A consistent process, in terms of group policy, is followed to ensure a smooth transition during implementation and to minimise business disruption resulting from the changes.
The change management process is implemented and managed at business unit level in accordance with global policy.
Financial crime Financial crime and fraud risk are considered key operational risks.
The focus is on risk identification, loss investigation, recovery and prosecution, and recommending enhanced practices to mitigate this risk.
Incidents of fraud are investigated, recovery initiated and legal action implemented.
It is our policy to take conclusive action on all financial crime that is identified as being perpetrated against us.
Case information is collected and compiled by the specialists in the correct manner, to facilitate the legal process and obtain the necessary convictions.
In order to assess client quality, regular reviews of the client database are conducted with comparisons to an international database of undesirable persons.
Suspicious, unusual and threshold transactions are monitored, assessed, investigated and reported as required by legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
A number of reports were made during the year.
Our Legal division reviews all proposed reports.
The Group Information Officer deals with all requests for information received from regulatory and investigatory agencies and emerging trends in financial crime are monitored.
Insurance We maintain adequate insurance to cover key risks, operational and other.
Our insurance process and requirements are the responsibility of the Group Insurance Manager.
96 Operational risk year in review Operational risk exposure within the group continued to be addressed and reported.
During the year, we continued to embed our operational risk practices across the group.
Our strategy provides for continuous development to ensure that our framework and practices are appropriate and adequate for our business, and in line with regulatory requirements.
In addition, we continue to develop and enhance our policies, practices and processes in line with leading practice.
Industry developments are monitored through active participation in industry forums.
A number of engagements with regulators took place during the year as part of our Basel II programme.
The Standardised Approach application requirements in the jurisdictions are being met.
An internal assessment of our operational risk practices has been undertaken to evaluate compliance with Basel ll requirements, and we are of the view that we are substantially meeting these requirements.
During the year, the processes around the gathering of internal data were refined.
Risks above our threshold were reported to the Board Risk Review Committee and are being appropriately treated.
Certain key risk indicators are tracked and continue to be an area of focus.
Business continuity risk was a focus for regulators in South Africa and the UK during the year.
Participation in regulatory initiatives confirmed that our business continuity practices are appropriate and adequate.
Certain minor incidents were effectively responded to without disruption to the business, but highlighted the need for ongoing attention to operations resilience and partial disruption recoverability.
The management of this risk remains a focus.
Information security training was rolled out to all staff to increase the awareness of information security risk.
During the year, various internal and external incidents were identified and responded to, in order to minimise losses and recover assets or to report suspicious transactions to the authorities.
Risk management Risk management Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts.
The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identification and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present.
Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks.
Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction.
Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there 97 are no gaps in the risk management process.
Establishment of minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources.
Establishment of procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards.
Establishment of legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the Global Head of Legal Risk.
The Global Head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Officer of each legal entity.
Reputational risk management Reputational risk is the risk caused by damage to an organisation's reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may result from a breakdown of trust, confidence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may also arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including a strong values statement that is regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are acutely aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
We regularly reinforce our policies and practices through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Capital management The management of the capital at our disposal is paramount to our success.
Strategically, we focus on ensuring that we only enter business activities that are expected to earn appropriate returns on our capital and satisfy the demands of our shareholders.
Our objective is to increase shareholder value through a group-wide discipline that links capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions, risk management and capital-based incentive compensation into one integrated framework.
Risk management Risk management Philosophy and approach The Investec group comprises Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries.
In terms of our DLC structure, these two companies are treated separately from a credit perspective.
This is notwithstanding the shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Invested Limited were a single unified enterprise.
Furthermore, the UK Financial Services Authority regulates Investec plc and the South African Reserve Bank regulates Investec Limited.
Consequently, the management of capital is undertaken on a silo basis at the lowest level but considered in aggregate from a group perspective.
Regardless of the statutory entity, we recognise that the key principles relating to the purpose of capital, are to: Allow each area to grow organically and achieve its business objectives as strategically determined by executive management and approved by the relevant boards of directors.
Give us the opportunity to explore acquisition opportunities that will allow us to position ourselves within our chosen markets.
Protect us against losses and risks inherent in the business, which would otherwise affect the security of funds deposited with or loaned to the various banking entities.
Within our capital management environment, a key assumption is the understanding of the difference between internal capital and regulatory capital.
The former relates to the resultant capital determined when all risks are considered including reputational and business risks and is currently derived from the regulatory capital used by each division.
The quantification of all material risks across the group is being re-assessed in accordance with the second Pillar of Basel II, but the principles are already embedded within our business.
At the heart of this distinction lie the fundamental implications flowing from the widespread practice of Economic Value Added incentive schemes, which embody, as their base, internal capital.
This means that all transactions we conduct have to be considered in the context of their implications on capital.
This is to ensure that the operators achieve the threshold targets in terms of return on capital to shareholders as this has a direct impact on their incentive remuneration.
The benefit of such a practice is that the management of capital is conducted at the level of deal initiation.
This compels a wider population beyond the formal governance committees to 98 understand the capital implications of business activity and ensure that risk is priced appropriately.
As this has been embedded in our culture and philosophies, it is regarded as a cornerstone to the comprehensive management of capital.
Responsibility for capital management The Investec plc and Investec Limited boards of directors are ultimately responsible for the respective silo's capital management.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated direct responsibility for capital management to the DLC Capital Committee to oversee the components contributing to effective control and use of capital.
This forum was constituted in June 2002 and its roles and responsibilities are discussed on page 116.
In order to feed into this forum, Investec plc convenes a separate Capital Committee on a weekly basis so as to monitor the capital positions of its various subsidiaries, in particular the businesses in the UK and Australia.
A formally constituted capital management committee also exists in Australia.
The Southern African operations meet monthly through the DI Forum, which analyses regulatory information, including capital use in Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
This structure ensures that capital is actively managed from the lowest reporting level and cascades up to the ultimate responsible body - the DLC Capital Committee.
Organisational structure In terms of capital management, the components of the organisational structure are as follows: The business units, especially those which conduct their business out of a regulated entity and use large amounts of capital Private Bank and Capital Markets.
The transactional consultants within the business units consider the capital implications on a deal-bydeal basis as this ultimately affects the internal capital used and, hence, the pricing and profitability of the transaction.
Risk management - As part of credit risk management, the presentation of transactions is conducted through the governance structures within the risk management function.
At the deal structuring and credit approval phases, the capital implications of transactions are considered independently from the business unit presentation to Capital Management, to ensure that each transaction is accurate and reasonable.
This serves as an additional verification of the capital implication of the particular transaction.
- As part of market risk management, the market risk management team performs the quantification of the trading capital used by the trading activities throughout the group.
This is tested for reasonableness at the various capital management forums explained above.
- As part of operational risk management, the quantification of the operational capital used is conducted and reported to the Executive Risk Review Forum on a regular basis.
- Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT support division, which ensures that all applications we use to calculate and report risk information are functioning properly and reconcile to underlying source systems.
Risk management Risk management Group Finance - The financial control functions throughout the organisation work closely with risk management to ensure that capital reporting is accurate, appropriate and timely.
- The responsibility for regulatory reporting forms part of the Finance function.
- Furthermore, Group Finance and Group Risk, as part of the annual audit process, independently determine the internal capital per business unit as it forms the basis of the operating units' incentive remuneration.
- As with Risk Management, the Group Finance IT division plays a critical role in ensuring the integrity of the ledger and all supporting applications which contribute to the regulatory and business intelligence reporting processes.
Basel II We intend to implement the Basel II Standardised approaches for credit and operational risk across our divisions and geographies from January 2008, moving to the Advanced approaches over time.
For market risk in the trading book, we currently adopt a combination of the EU CAD I model approach and internal value-at-risk models and we intend to move to the latter across all jurisdictions in the near future.
The Basel II implementation is taking account of our long-term sustainability and strategic view.
The evaluation extends to the entire risk and operational environment, including the infrastructure and data framework to ultimately support the advanced approach.
While the adoption of the Basel II framework may have a significant impact on the capital management process, the process will allow greater flexibility for us to manage our capital requirements through a better understanding of risk and reward.
From a philosophical standpoint however, the use of risk to manage the business will not change.
The reason is that the acute sensitivity of transactions to capital use is already embedded in our deal credit approval and performance measurement ethos as detailed above.
The underlying process for determining capital adequacy relative to our chosen risk profile will remain essentially the same.
However, under Basel II, the basis for quantification of required capital will become more sophisticated.
In terms of the current process, the following features exist: Board and senior management oversight in relation to the nature and level of risk taken and how this risk relates to capital 99 adequacy.
Strategic plans outline our capital needs, anticipated capital expenditure, target capital level and structure and external capital sources.
Sound capital assessment through the establishment of capital adequacy goals supported by a process of internal controls, reviews and audits to ensure the integrity of the overall management process.
Comprehensive assessment of risks by a number of governance committees guided by methodologies and policies, supported by sophisticated systems which ensure the adequacy and completeness of information on which decisions are based.
To this end, detailed reports are prepared regularly on our risk profile and capital needs.
The adoption of Pillar ll through our internal capital model allows us to manage risk more effectively and to target performance accurately on the basis of risk.
This will enable an extension to the current internal capital model by allowing for a greater understanding of the sources of all risk capital at a transactional level.
Conclusion We optimise the use of our capital through a rigorous risk based approach to performance and risk management.
Capital is managed closely for return and risk from the inception of a transaction.
This approach ensures that the linkage of risk to targeted capital levels is entrenched in our deal facilitation culture.
This results in a capital management process driven by capital adequacy goals which are closely monitored by strategic capital plans.
These strategic capital plans are approved by a sub-committee of the board.
