6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 58 RISKS RISKS CONTINUED The management of the business and the execution of the Groups The inability to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer Terrorism A lack of flexibility in our supply chain would limit our ability growth strategies are subject to a number of risks, the occurrence demand and fashion trends on a timely basis could adversely A major terrorist attack, particularly in central London, New York, to respond efficiently to changing circumstances and fashion of any one of which may adversely affect the management of the impact sales Barcelona or Tokyo could severely impact the operation of our trends, hindering the Groups ability to take advantage of growth Group and the execution of growth strategies.
Our business depends, in part, on our ability to shape, stimulate and businesses.
In such circumstances we cannot ensure uninterrupted opportunities and enabling competitors to take market share anticipate consumer demand by producing innovative, fashionable and operation of the business, particularly in the short-term.
In the If our suppliers do not have sufficient manufacturing capacity or fail to The key business risks affecting the Group are set out below.
The Burberry check has been used as an integral longer-term the operation of the business may be hindered if the deliver products on time and or to the appropriate quality standards, The steps the Group takes to address these risks, where they are part of our product design and to promote the brand.
We plan to effects of a terrorist attack have a more prolonged effect.
Business sales for an entire season could be significantly adversely affected.
matters within its control, are also described.
Such steps will mitigate continue to vary the manner in which we use the Burberry check as continuity plans are in place to mitigate but not eliminate the Further, such a failure could affect wholesale customers confidence but not eliminate these risks.
Some of the risks relate to external a design feature and to develop marketing initiatives to minimise its risk operational risks.
which could adversely affect subsequent seasons.
We have evolved factors which are beyond the Groups control.
The order of the risks of over exposure.
We are increasing the frequency of our collections our design calendar to enable increased product refreshment and is in no way an indication of their relative importance, and each of the We are dependent on the strength of our trademarks and other so as to be more responsive to fashion and consumer trends.
This will enable us to respond more efficiently to risks should be considered independently.
If more than one of the intellectual property rights changing circumstances and to reduce the risks associated with events contemplated by the risks set out below occurs, it is possible Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations and Our trademarks and other proprietary rights are fundamentally placing excessive capacity with key product suppliers.
that the combined overall effect of such events may be compounded.
vary based on the weather important to our success and competitive position.
Unauthorised In recent years, we have seen more unpredictable global weather use of the Burberry name, the Burberry check and the Prorsum Burberry could suffer if its manufacturers are unable to produce Risks are formally reviewed by a Risk Committee of executive patterns.
Our business, particularly with respect to apparel, broadly horse logo as well as the distribution of counterfeit products damage goods at a competitive price, on time and to our specification management including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial operates on a seasonal basis Spring Summer and Autumn Winter the Burberry brand image and profits.
If a third-party registers our Burberry continues to evolve its sourcing strategy, refining its Officer and Company Secretary and also by the Audit Committee.
and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, trademarks or similar trademark, in a country where we do not selection of suppliers to maintain and enhance product quality Key business risks are also considered generally as part of the substantial seasonal fluctuations in sales and operating results.
currently trade, this would create a barrier to our commencing whilst improving sourcing efficiency.
There are opportunities to Groups strategy development and ongoing business review In particular, our results vary based on the weather because of trade under those marks in that country.
In addition, if a third-party develop more robust supplier management processes and these processes.
the large proportion of outerwear products we offer and the effect publishes harmful material using our trademarks, Burberrys brand will help ensure that we continue to produce merchandise of the The cumulative change within the business places of the weather on retail markets generally.
As a result of these image could suffer.
right quality, in accordance with our ethical policy, and delivered a significant pressure on resources fluctuations, comparisons of sales and operating results between in accordance with our requirements.
This process may adversely We have a dedicated team operating internationally to establish and The combination of the global change programme Project Atlas, different periods within a single financial year are not necessarily affect relationships with existing suppliers during the transition period.
protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.
Where the changing business model and the development of the global meaningful.
In addition, these comparisons cannot be relied on If our suppliers fail to ship product on time, or quality is substandard, infringements are identified, we resolve these through a mixture of supply chain combine to exert significant pressure on the business.
as indicators of our future performance.
this could lead to us missing delivery dates to our customers, criminal and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
Governance processes have been put in place for each major potentially resulting in cancelled orders or price reductions.
An economic downturn could affect consumers purchases programme and these are supplemented by monthly operational Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken of discretionary luxury items which could adversely affect If Burberry loses key management or is unable to attract and meetings with senior management to review operational performance.
to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights Burberrys sales retain the talent required for its business, its operating results The senior management team also continues to be strengthened to will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others.
In common with all our competitors, there are many factors which could suffer further support these key initiatives.
Trademarks and intellectual property rights, while subject to affect the level of consumer spending on discretionary luxury items.
Burberrys performance depends largely on its senior managers and international treaties, are largely driven by national law and the There is a substantial change programme Project Atlas being During a recession, when disposable income is lower, a downturn design teams.
The resignation of key individuals and the inability to protection of intellectual property rights varies from one jurisdiction rolled out throughout the business to improve the infrastructure in our key markets may adversely affect Burberrys sales.
recruit people with the right experience and skills to facilitate future to another.
We cannot therefore necessarily be as effective in all and business efficiency business growth could adversely impact Burberrys results.
To mitigate A significant proportion of our sales are generated by customers, jurisdictions in addressing counterfeit products.
In many territories Whilst Project Atlas is designed to deliver significant business these issues the Remuneration Committee regularly benchmarks the in particular Japanese, Chinese and other Asian customers who we are dependent upon the vigilance and responsiveness of law benefits and to improve the quality of the Groups IT infrastructure, Groups incentive schemes against the market and considers the purchase our products while travelling either overseas or domestically.
enforcement bodies whose priorities may differ from our own.
if it is not effectively managed and resourced the benefits may fail framework in place to recruit, incentivise and retain key individuals.
As a result, shifts in travel patterns or a decline in travel volumes They are also subject to budgetary constraints and prioritise their to be delivered and it could compromise business operations.
As part of the process, the Remuneration Committee is recommending could materially affect our trading results.
Whilst we work closely with customs and other A governance framework has been established involving Board to shareholders the implementation of the Exceptional Performance law enforcement bodies, ultimately we cannot direct their actions.
level sponsorship and a Steering Committee.
External consultants Burberry is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations Share Plan, which is designed to reward very high performance.
are being used to supplement internal skills where required.
We derive a significant percentage of our profits from our Japanese There is a risk of over-reliance on key product manufacturers In addition, there is an ongoing recruitment programme overseen by licensing arrangements.
As a consequence, we are exposed to a In a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant on a We face increasingly intense competition the Human Resources Director and Chief Executive Officer to ensure significant risk associated with the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
During the year, the Group has further Competition in the luxury goods sector has intensified in recent that we strengthen and develop our senior management team.
strengthened its supply chain management team to enable us to years and we are faced with increasing competition in many of our In addition the Group is expanding its operations in the US as part continue to evolve and develop our manufacturing base to further product categories and markets.
We compete with international of our strategy to accelerate retail expansion in key under-penetrated mitigate the risk associated with over-reliance on key product luxury goods groups who control a number of luxury brands and markets.
As the Groups presence in the US increases, we will be suppliers.
Where suitable alternatives exist, the Group has reduced may have greater financial resources and bargaining power with exposed to an increased risk associated with the US Dollar to volumes with key suppliers on whom the Group is over-reliant and suppliers, wholesale accounts and landlords than we do.
If we are Sterling exchange rate.
continues to look for suitable additional suppliers to further reduce unable to compete successfully, our operating results and growth We manage a significant proportion of the Yen exposures by the such over-reliance.
use of forward exchange contracts.
Currency fluctuations affecting the Yen and the US Dollar will nevertheless affect our results and profitability.
58 59 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
