28 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE HAS IN PLACE A BUSINESS-WIDE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS TO PROVIDE ASSURANCE THAT RISKS TO WHICH IT IS EXPOSED ARE APPROPRIATELY CONTROLLED AND OR MITIGATED, THEREBY ENSURING THAT CORPORATE OBJECTIVES ARE MET.
A number of potential risks and uncertainties RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY RISKS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS exist which could have a material impact Economic environment Market activity on the Exchanges long-term performance, Conditions in the savings market can affect Exchange revenues and pro tability are not all of which are wholly within our investment in securities.
These conditions dependent upon the levels of activity on its control.
Some of the issues in uencing are in uenced by a variety of factors, and markets.
A slowdown in trading activity could our performance are macro-economic the Exchange is not in a position to control lead to a drop in trading volumes and fewer and may affect the performance of these factors directly, nor is it possible initial public offerings as well as to a drop businesses generally, but others are to predict or foresee their occurrence or in the number of information terminals speci c to our business.
the scale of their impact on the business.
Such a However, the Exchange continuously slowdown might adversely affect Exchange The following section addresses the monitors trends and developments and revenues.
Based on current trends in market principal risks and uncertainties to which the engages in dialogue with regulatory and activity on its markets, the Exchange has Exchange is currently exposed.
In addition, governmental authorities at both national no reason to believe such a slowdown is likely the main risks arising from the Exchanges and EU level.
to occur in the near future.
use of financial instruments are discussed in note 27 to the financial statements below.
Structure of the industry Recognised Investment In response to the gradual liberalisation of Exchange RIE recognition world financial markets, participants in the The Exchange is an authorised RIE.
In order securities market continue to undergo a to obtain RIE status, the Exchange had to signi cant level of corporate restructuring.
satisfy the Recognition Requirements and In particular, a high proportion of business these apply to all markets operated by the in the securities market is becoming Exchange.
If it fails to continue to meet the increasingly concentrated in a smaller Recognition Requirements, or to comply with number of institutions and the Exchanges any obligation to which it is subject under revenue may therefore become concentrated the Financial Services and Markets Act, in a smaller number of customers.
The then the FSA ultimately has the power to Exchange constantly monitors this trend revoke its RIE status.
The Exchange has and evaluates its strategy in light of it.
comprehensive procedures in place to ensure continued compliance with all Recognition Requirements and the Directors are not aware of any circumstances which would result in the FSA revoking the Exchanges RIE status.
THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 29 Competitive pressure IT infrastructure Financing The terms under which business is conducted Key services depend on technology which In order to develop its business, the in the UK have been further liberalised by is secure, stable and performs to high levels Board expects that the Exchanges capital recent EU directives e. g. MiFID, presenting of availability and throughput.
The failure requirements will be met from existing cash the opportunity to conduct and publish of these systems could adversely impact resources, internally generated funds and trades in different ways and on alternative revenue and customer goodwill.
The group access to lending facilities.
The Exchange also faces competition maintains alternative computer facilities to requirements may vary from those currently from other exchanges as well as from reduce the risk of system disruptions.
There can be no guarantee that electronic communication networks and have been no trading outages in the last capital will be available on a timely basis alternative trading and trade reporting seven years.
or on favourable terms or at all.
These developments might adversely impact revenue growth.
The The Exchange is currently renewing its IT Employees Exchange is very well placed to address infrastructure to create a more modern, The support of its employees and, in competitive pressures through the steps it scalable and agile platform which can be particular, the Executive Directors and senior has taken and continues to take, for example, operated at lower cost the Technology managers within business divisions, is crucial to develop new products and services and Roadmap.
Major IT replacements of this to the continued success of the Exchange.
provide advanced trading and information kind have high levels of risk attached to The loss of key members of the Exchanges technology to meet customers needs.
Failure to deliver the expected staff could have a material adverse effect on In particular, our new trading platform bene ts could hamper the Exchanges its performance.
To prevent this, succession TradElect scheduled for implementation strategic exibility and reduce its ability to plans are in place and reward and incentive for the London market in June 2007 will respond to customer needs for services or systems are regularly reviewed.
deliver a step change in performance, keener pricing.
The Exchange, in conjunction capacity and exibility.
with Accenture, the Exchanges primary IT service provider, is employing rigorous software design methodologies, logistics planning and assembly and testing regimes to minimise the risk.
