PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 The online gaming industry faces similar Our risks risks and challenges to other leisure and entertainment businesses, including competition from established companies Business review and new entrants, as well as changes in 84 consumer tastes and spending habits.
Technological change presents additional challenges and is a constant feature of the Managing business risk is an online gaming industry.
important exercise for all Our overall approach to managing risk is businesses, one that has to focused on ensuring the long-term viability and sustainability of the Group.
This may account for events past, mean taking decisions that adversely present and future.
Operating affect revenue and profit growth in the in an environment where there short-term but which are expected to is a lack of clarity and often yield much greater longer term gains.
That is not to say that we are unable to confusion regarding regulation seize profitable opportunities.
It means in many countries, means that that we always weigh-up the short-term risk management and versus long-term value in a risk controlled framework.
regulatory compliance are especially important for The key risks that the business is focused upon are in the areas of regulatory PartyGaming and the online compliance, technology, a shifting gaming industry.
Regulatory compliance Generally, given the regulatory dynamics of our industry, we believe that a more New in 2007 conservative, rather than aggressive approach will deliver substantially superior Through a series of specialist committees, the returns over the medium to longer term.
Group has established a tightly managed As part of our overall risk management process of regulatory compliance process, the Group monitors the regulatory Continued development of the Groups and legal position in many countries systems to ensure a safe, secure and stable around the world.
The detailed monitoring operating environment for all customers of any individual jurisdiction may be The competitive threat from companies that because we already have customers choose not to comply with local laws in certain in that particular country or because territories may intensify it harbours potential opportunities for Careful management of our tax affairs resulted us.
Our financial performance can be in the release of a provision in 2007 substantially impacted, either positively or negatively, by a change in the regulatory or political environment in an individual country or region and therefore this is an important ongoing business process for the Group.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Whilst some of our competitors have Technology chosen to ignore the introduction of new As an internet business, PartyGamings legislation in the US towards the end of technology and communication systems 2006, we ceased immediately from taking underpin the Groups success.
Our Business review deposits and wagers from customers based reputation is founded upon providing 85 in the US as soon as the UIGEA came into reliable and secure software that is effect.
The impact on our business was protected against hackers, email viruses, immediate.
Whilst we may disagree with distributed denial of service DDoS the principles enshrined in that law, we attacks and other forms of cyber crime respect it.
that could impact the player experience and bring about a decline in user traffic.
In June 2007 we chose to approach The Group employs state-of-the-art voluntarily the US Department of Justice hardware and protection systems to DoJ after having become aware that ensure that our services remain robust it was actively looking at our industry, and the customers playing experience regarding possible legacy issues associated is uninterrupted, safe and secure.
with revenues generated from customers based in the US prior to 13 October 2006.
Our technology is also essential in ensuring As at the date of this document, our that the Groups offering remains competitive discussions with the DoJ are ongoing and and that we can continue to attract and our focus is on removing any uncertainty retain customers.
Making improvements regarding the Groups legal status in the to our software that enhance the player US.
A successful conclusion to these experience as well as introducing new discussions is one of our key strategic games and additional gaming features objectives for 2008. is an ongoing process.
With up to 15 different technology releases in any Our ongoing management of regulatory 12-month period, this requires a complex risks, through dialogue with governments development process.
This includes and politicians around the world, also detailed project design and specification remains an important priority for the Group.
as well as rigorous internal and external This is achieved both directly as well as testing of the product both before and through industry associations such as after release, to ensure that the fairness of the Remote Gambling Association and our games are unaffected.
After a product the European Gaming and Betting has been released, we continue to Association.
In 2007, the Group was an conduct internal and external audits of its active participant in the consultation performance on a regular basis.
process leading up to the implementation of the UK Gambling Act that created a legal framework for the regulation of online gaming.
Also in 2007, the Group testified before the Canadian Senate in order to clarify a point of Canadian law regarding its application, or otherwise, to offshore online gaming operators.
The Group continues to engage with the Canadian Government with a view to assisting it in the possible development of a regulatory framework for online gaming.
Similar discussions are taking place with other governments around the globe.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Taxation Our risks Group Companies operate for tax purposes only where they are incorporated, domiciled or registered.
Business review The Groups customers are located 86 worldwide.
Revenues earned from customers located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes Our reliance on third-party bandwidth in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, providers, communications carriers and either on the basis of existing law or the data centres also harbour risks.
Any failure current practice of any tax authority, or by by a provider could lead to the loss of reason of a change in law or practice, then revenue and customers.
To help mitigate this may have a material adverse effect on this risk, we have a number of alternative the amount of tax payable by the Group.
data centres which can be used for disaster recovery purposes.
The Company and its Gibraltar subsidiaries are registered as exempt companies for Competitive environment Gibraltar tax purposes.
As a result, the Competition poses risks for any company Group pays relatively little tax in Gibraltar.
operating in an open market.
However, The exempt company tax regime is since the enactment of the UIGEA in due to be phased out by the end of 2010.
October 2006, the Group has faced a The Government of Gibraltar has reiterated unique set of circumstances that have its commitment to the continuation of distorted the normal operation of a free Gibraltars fiscal competitiveness stating market and posed additional, specific that it intends to seek to introduce challenges.
Whilst the Group chose to alternative arrangements to the exempt respect the clear intent of the new law and companies legislation by the end of 2010 immediately stopped customers located which will meet EU requirements and which in the US from making deposits or playing will be competitive.
on any of our real money sites, certain other independent and privately-owned A change in control or activity of any operators did not.
Notwithstanding the Group company which is a Gibraltar ongoing threat of prosecution faced by exempt company would trigger the loss of these companies from the US authorities, its tax exempt status in Gibraltar.
Any such these operators have a clear and distinct change, however, is not expected to have advantage in generating player liquidity a material adverse effect on the overall tax that is an important factor in attracting rate of the Group.
certain high-roller players and operating a successful online poker room.
This in turn generates incremental revenue that provides such competitors with more resources with which to compete.
In spite of this, PartyGaming has continued to grow Risk management revenue and Clean EBITDA, reflecting the strength of its brands and the quality of its customer offer.
Managing risk and regulatory compliance is a core business process for the Group.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Responsible gaming Business review 87 Only adults are allowed in to our sites.
If youre not an adult, youre out!
