The Merchants Trust PLC Financial Risk Management The Company is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets The Company nances its operations through a mixture of share and financial liabilities.
The most important components of its capital, retained earnings and long term borrowings.
financial risk are market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The risk prole and the Foreign currency risk policies adopted to manage risk did not change materially during Foreign currency risk is the risk of movement in the values of either the current or previous year.
overseas financial instruments as a result of uctuations in exchange rates.
The narrative below explains the different types of risks the Company may face.
Numerical disclosures are listed in Note 18 to The Company invests predominantly in UK listed securities.
value of these securities may be affected by the impact of movements in exchange rates on the underlying businesses either This information is given so that investors in the Company can on a transactional or translational basis.
decide for themselves whether their investment is high or low risk.
It allows them to assess what kind of impact the use of financial Credit risk instruments investments, cash overdraft and borrowings will have Credit risk is the risk of default by a counterparty.
on the performance of the entity.
Short term debtors and creditors are not considered to be financial instruments.
They have been In February 2000 the Company commenced stock lending in order included at the bottom of the numerical disclosure in Note 18 a to generate additional income.
The risk of default is managed by merely to enable users of the Accounts to reconcile the summary holding collateral, in the form of letters of credit and FTSE 100 provided to total net assets per the balance sheet.
equities, amounting to 105% of the mid market value of the stock on loan.
The level of collateral required is recalculated on a daily As an investment trust, the Company invests in securities for the basis.
Accordingly it is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Companys policy that no short term trading in Liquidity risk investments or other financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Liquidity risk relates to the capacity to meet liabilities.
Market price risk The Companys assets mainly comprise realisable securities, which Market price risk arises mainly from the uncertainty about future can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Short term prices of financial instruments held.
It represents the potential loss exibility can be achieved through the use of overdraft facilities, the Company might suffer through holding market positions in the where necessary.
The Board meets regularly to consider the asset allocation of the portfolio in order to evaluate the risk associated with particular industry sectors.
A dedicated fund manager has the responsibility for monitoring the existing portfolio selection in accordance with the Companys investment objectives and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward prole.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of movements in the value of financial instruments as a result of uctuations in interest rates.
The Company invests predominantly in equities, the values of which are not directly affected by changes in prevailing market interest rates.
Therefore there is minimal exposure to interest rate risk.
