RISk FACTORS The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
Outlined below is a description of the principal risk factors that may affect performance.
Such risk factors are not intended to be presented in any order of priority.
Any of the risks, as well as the other risks and uncertainties referred to in this report, could have a material adverse effect on business performance.
In addition, the risks set out below may not be exhaustive and additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the Company, or which the Company currently deems immaterial, may arise or become material in the future.
The risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the cautionary note to shareholders in relation to forward-looking statements set out on pages 36 to 39.
The Companys performance is dependent upon the performance of Cairn India and the Capricorn Group Following the IPO, the Companys principal assets are its shareholding in Cairn India, a company listed on the BSE and NSE in India, and its 90% shareholding in its unlisted subsidiary, Capricorn.
Accordingly, the Companys performance and market price are dependent upon the performance of Cairn India and Capricorn.
Any failure by Cairn India or by Capricorn to successfully develop their respective businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business performance.
The Companys material shareholding in Cairn India represents a significant proportion of the Companys value.
Any fluctuations in the market price of Cairn Indias share price may have a direct effect on the Companys share price.
Relationship with Cairn India The Company exercises its influence over Cairn India through certain provisions contained within the memorandum and articles of association of Cairn India supplemented by the terms of a relationship agreement between Cairn India and the Company.
In particular, the Company may reasonably require Cairn India to comply with policies and procedures which it has approved from time to time in relation to the Group as a whole.
Consequently, Cairn India has generally adopted policies and procedures which are in line with those of the Group such that the identification and treatment of risk is consistent between Cairn India and Capricorn.
Project Assessment and Delivery There are a number of steps prior to a decision by management to invest in or sanction a project or new venture.
Risks during this pre-sanction period include technical, engineering, commercial and regulatory risks.
Typical risks include overor underestimation of crude oil and natural gas initially in place and recoverable, inadequate front end engineering design, not securing appropriate long-term commercial agreements or, where required, applicable governmental or regulatory consents, permits, licences or approvals.
This can cause delays to commercialisation of reserves and this may have a material effect on medium to long-term cash flow and income.
Project delivery is subject to corporate responsibility, technical, commercial, contractor and economic risks.
Projects can be delayed or unsuccessful for many reasons, including cost and time overruns of projects under construction, availability, competence and capability of human resources and contractors, mechanical and technical difficulties and infrastructure constraints.
In addition, some development projects may require the use of new and advanced technologies or produce hydrocarbons from challenging reservoirs, which can exacerbate such problems.
The Companys principal project is the development by Cairn India of discovered oil fields in Rajasthan.
Availability of production from the largest oil field, Mangala, is currently scheduled for the second half of 2009.
Residual risks relate to the potential for delays in the delivery of materials and equipment, construction, installation or commissioning activities which may lead to the availability of production being delayed.
The scope of the project has been expanded to include transportation infrastructure to permit the transport of produced oil to designated end users in India.
The present schedule for completion of the transport infrastructure will permit efficient evacuation of the Mangala crude oil once available during the second half of 2009.
Delays in connection with land acquisition, securing of rights of way, delivery of materials and equipment, construction, installation or commissioning activities represent residual risks which may lead to a delay in the availability of the transportation infrastructure to evacuate the Mangala crude oil in line with the planned production availability during the second half of 2009.
The crude oil at the northern fields in Rajasthan is characterised by its viscous nature in the reservoir and its propensity to solidify at higher temperatures, whether in the well-bore or at surface, than is commonly the case for most producing oil fields.
This presents both extraction and transportation risks.
The development, production and transportation plans for the northern fields are dependent upon availability of a reliable fuel supply for power generation and heating of the facilities.
A parallel development of the Raageshwari gas field in Rajasthan is being undertaken to provide such fuel gas.
Under the present schedule, fuel gas will be available to meet the power generation and heating requirements to support availability of production from the Mangala field and the availability of transportation infrastructure during the second half of 2009.
Residual risks are essentially similar to those which pertain to the completion of the Mangala development.
36 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 RISk FACTORS CONTINUED The development plans for the northern fields are expected to assume the use of EOR techniques to extract an additional incremental percentage of the estimated oil in place in the reservoirs.
There is a risk that Cairn India may not be able to use EOR techniques successfully.
These risks include sourcing, purchasing and transportation of large quantities of the types of polymer chemicals that would be required for the EOR techniques, failure to maintain the properties of the polymer chemicals in the reservoir, leading to lower incremental recovery of oil and polymer fouling of the surface facilities leading to a deterioration of the operating efficiency of the processing plant.
The economic viability of the EOR application will be determined by the prevailing crude oil price and the incremental operational expenditure which includes the cost of chemicals.
A pilot EOR project is planned shortly after commencement of production from the Mangala field.
Operations The Groups revenues are dependent on the continued performance of its operating facilities.
Operational risks include maintaining asset integrity, which can be affected by a number of factors including improper operating and maintenance regimes and plant availability, which can be significantly impacted by unplanned shutdowns and or equipment failure, the performance by and sharing of risk between JV partners and the location of some of the Groups operations which may expose them to natural hazards such as cyclones, flooding and earthquakes.
If these risks materialise, the Group may not be able to meet its corporate responsibility policies and standards, or planned output levels or unit operating costs.
These factors may have an effect on cost control, or a potentially material impact on the Groups reputation and the results of the Groups operations.
Future production of crude oil and natural gas is dependent on the Group finding, or acquiring and developing further reserves.
The Group has exploration licences in a number of countries where environmental, geological and infrastructural conditions are challenging and as a consequence costs can be higher.
The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain.
As a result, the Group may incur cost overruns or may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of many factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, the need for compliance with environmental regulations, governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment.
If the Group fails to conduct successful exploration activities or to acquire assets holding proven reserves, the Groups proven reserves will decline as it extracts and depletes existing reserves.
The Groups future production depends significantly upon its success in finding or acquiring and developing additional reserves.
If the Group is unsuccessful, it may not meet its production targets, and its total proven reserves and production will decline, which could adversely affect the results of its operations and financial condition.
Commercial Cairn India may not be able to obtain competitive market prices for its crude oil sales from its fields in Rajasthan.
Cairn India is obliged to sell 100% of its crude oil production to the GoI or its nominee, and the GoI is obliged to buy the crude oil pursuant to the PSC.
The purchase price will be based upon a basket of crude oils to be decided between Cairn India and the nominee based upon a mixture and weighting of crude oils that would produce a quality similar to the quality of crude oil expected to be produced by Cairn India.
There can be no assurance that the basket of crude oils used to determine the price of Cairn India crude oil sales to the nominee will result in a value approximating to the price used by Cairn India in its development and financial planning.
Under the gas sales agreement for the Sangu gas field in Bangladesh, the price payable to Capricorn for the supplied gas is capped at a price which equates to approximately $21 per barrel Brent.
As the price is presently at that cap, the price payable to Capricorn will not increase in line with increases in oil price.
The operating costs of the Sangu gas field have, however, increased as a result of recent high oil prices.
There is a risk, therefore, that further increases in the price of oil may further increase operating costs at the Sangu gas field and that, accordingly, whilst operating costs will ultimately be recoverable under the PSC cost recovery mechanism, Capricorns margin under the sales agreement may be further reduced.
Exchange Rates, Interest Rates and Currency Controls The Groups Cash Flow, Income Statement and Balance Sheet are reported in US Dollars and may be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
Shares in Cairn India are, and any dividends which may become payable in respect of them will be, denominated in Rupees.
The material holding in Cairn India by the Group, whose principal currency is not Rupees, exposes the Group to foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Cairn India has been funded largely in United States Dollars through its cash generation from operations, the conversion of the IPO proceeds and its loan facilities, and has significant United States Dollar cash holdings.
Cairn India will nonetheless incur significant expenses in Rupees in connection with the development of the oil fields in Rajasthan.
Accordingly, Cairn India has adopted and implemented a foreign exchange hedging policy to limit exposure to movement in the exchange rate between the United States Dollar and the Rupee.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 37 RISk FACTORS CONTINUED The Groups financing costs may be significantly affected by interest rate volatility.
The Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated with refinancing borrowings as they mature, the risk that borrowing facilities are not available to draw down and the risk that financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash without loss of value.
Furthermore, the GoI currently operates certain controls on currency exports which restrict the transfer from India of Rupees.
While the policy and practice of the GoI has been to relax many of these controls and no restrictions are in place at present that would prevent free remittance of dividends from Cairn India to the Company, there is a risk that controls may be re-imposed in future.
Regulation The Group may incur material costs in complying with, or as a result of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations.
The Group is subject to a broad range of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations that impose controls on, among other things, the storage, handling and transportation of petroleum products, employee exposure to hazardous substances and other aspects of its operations.
The Group may also incur liabilities for environmental damage caused by acts or omissions of any third party contractors.
Further, the adoption of new health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments in the future may require additional capital expenditures or result in the Group incurring additional operating expenses in order to maintain current or future operations.
These laws and regulations are increasingly stringent and may in the future create substantial environmental compliance or remediation liabilities and costs.
If the Group fails to meet environmental requirements or has a major accident or disaster, it may also be subject to administrative, civil and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other individuals, which could result in fines, penalties and damages against it as well as orders that could limit, halt or even cause closure of its operations, any of which could have material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
The Cairn India Group is also subject to limits as to how much it may borrow under both the Indian Companies Act 1956 and its Articles of Association.
Indian law further restricts the ability of the Company to dispose of shares in Cairn India for certain periods of time.
Capricorn is still waiting for amendments to its PSCs in Blocks 5 and 10 in Bangladesh to be formalised in writing, further details of which are set out on page 20.
Capricorn also currently has licence awards pending in Spain and in Sicily, further details of which are set out on page 20.
Market Place The Groups results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in oil and gas prices.
The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive.
Due to, amongst other things, the significant increases in international oil prices, the Group is subject to highly competitive market conditions for the resources required to conduct its ongoing business, in particular with regard to the engagement of leading third party service providers and the purchase of capital equipment.
Coupled with relatively limited resources and expertise in India, in particular in the area surrounding Rajasthan, this has resulted in a strain on the specialist engineering and other services that Cairn India needs to develop its fields in Rajasthan.
The remaining development costs, as well as the current target of the second half of 2009 for first commercial production from the Mangala field, are subject to these risks of raw material and equipment shortages, or price increases above those anticipated and an inability to procure or design the engineering services required.
Year on year cost escalation in the upstream oil and gas sectors is reported to have been in excess of 20% in US Dollar terms during 2007.
Insurance Consistent with good industry practice, a comprehensive insurance programme is maintained to mitigate significant losses.
There is a risk, however, that the Groups insurance policies may not be sufficient in covering all losses which it or any third parties may suffer.
If the Group suffers an event for which it is not adequately insured, there is a risk that this could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.
The programme is also subject to certain limits, deductibles and other terms and conditions.
Human Resources The Groups performance and its ability to mitigate those risk factors within its control depend on the skills and efforts of its employees and management teams across the Group.
Future success will depend to a large extent on the Groups continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel.
Attracting and retaining top quality managerial talent has become a serious challenge facing companies in the oil and gas exploration and production sector.
Failure to have or retain key positions and functions in place could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
38 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 RISk FACTORS CONTINUED Corporate Responsibility The Group recognises that applying its CR Policies and Guiding Principles in all activities is essential in maintaining its licence to operate and business reputation.
CR risks occur when any part of the business fails to implement these Policies and Guiding Principles.
CR risks that could affect the Groups ability to deliver projects on time and within budget include inadequate stakeholder engagement, failure to put in place appropriate controls to mitigate environmental and social impacts, not having adequate processes in place to protect human rights in activities in our sphere of influence and the ineffective implementation of health and safety policies.
War, Terrorist Attack and Natural Disasters The Groups business may be adversely affected by a war, terrorist attack, natural disaster or other catastrophe, particularly given the location of some of the Groups assets in South Asia where terrorist attacks have become more prevalent in recent times.
Furthermore, the Groups assets are exposed to risks from adverse weather conditions: in particular, Capricorns assets in Bangladesh are exposed to risks from extreme weather conditions, which are often experienced in South Asia.
In addition, the low-lying nature of much of Bangladesh puts it at risk from any rise in sea levels as a result of global warming.
Any damage to the Capricorn infrastructure in Bangladesh or disruption or suspension of production in particular from the Sangu gas field could have a material adverse affect on the financial condition and or operating results of Capricorn and the Group.
In addition, Capricorns assets in Greenland are subject to the onset of ice during a portion of the year.
Political Climate The Group is active in a number of overseas markets and may be affected by a change in fiscal policy in respect of, or which impacts upon, these markets.
The Group cannot predict the impact of future changes in fiscal policy in the countries and markets in which it operates.
Amendments to existing legislation particularly increases in tax rates or withdrawals of tax relief, the introduction of new tax laws such as the imposition of import and or export quotas or import and or export tariffs and changes from time to time in the interpretation of existing tax laws could materially adversely affect the Groups reputation, financial condition and or operating results.
In particular, Cairn India may be liable to pay cess under the Indian Oil Industry Development Act 1974 OIDA cess in relation to the production of crude oil from Rajasthan under the terms of the RJ-ON-90 1PSC.
After receiving an order confirming its liability to pay OIDA cess on pit oil in March 2006, Cairn India appealed this decision with the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal in New Delhi: this appeal currently remains pending.
Any requirement to pay OIDA cess on commercial production of crude oil, whether or not recoverable pursuant to the terms of the PSC, may have a material adverse effect on Cairn Indias financial condition and results of operations.
In respect of the political climate in Nepal, despite the ceasefire and ongoing negotiations between the Government of Nepal and Maoist rebels, the political situation in that country is extremely sensitive.
The Group has sought to preserve its contractual position with respect to its Nepalese interests by serving force majeure notices on the Government of Nepal.
There is a risk that the situation in Nepal may never improve sufficiently to enable the Group to recommence its activities in that country.
In addition, there is a risk that if the Government of Nepal changes as a result of the recent political instability in that country, the new government may seek to disclaim the Groups interests in Nepal.
Cash Flow Due to their concentration on exploration, appraisal and development activities, both Cairn India and Capricorn are expected to remain cash flow negative for some time.
Cairn India plans to finance its operations from cash generated from its producing fields, from the cash proceeds received and retained in respect of the IPO, from, subject to shareholder approval, the private placement of shares to Petronas and Orient Global and from committed and available loan facilities.
Capricorn expects to finance its activities from cash generated from its producing field, from the recent disposal of a 50% interest in this field, from cash injected as share capital by the Company and from the issue of 10% of the share capital of Capricorn to Dyas BV, further details of which are set out on page 91.
If production from any of the Groups currently producing fields is interrupted or suspended, this would have a further impact on the Groups cash flow.
The Group is also exposed to credit risks if counterparties fail to meet their payment obligations.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 39
