Risk management Philosophy, principles and objectives Objectives Philosophy The Group has five objectives for risk and capital management: As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
Prudential a Framework Design, implement and maintain a consistent believes that effective risk management capabilities are a key risk management framework and policies spanning: competitive advantage.
A strategic risk, capital and value economic, regulatory and rating agency capital management framework and risk management culture has management: risk appetite: and risk-adjusted been developed to enhance the Groups embedded and profitability RAP.
b Monitoring Establish a no surprises risk management culture by identifying the risk landscape, assessing Principles and monitoring risk exposures and understanding Risk is defined as the uncertainty that Prudential faces change drivers.
in successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
c Control Implement risk mitigation strategies and remedial This includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions actions where exposures are deemed inappropriate and that have the potential to threaten the success and survival manage the response to extreme events.
d Communication Communicate the Group risk, capital and The control procedures and systems established within profitability position to internal and external stakeholders the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, and rating agencies.
the risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can e Culture Foster a risk management culture, providing only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against quality assurance and facilitating the sharing of best material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels practice risk measurement and management across of risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
The Groups policy is to proactively identify, assess, control, and monitor risk.
This forms an essential element Categorisation model of delivering the Groups performance ambition.
In so doing, A common risk language is used across the Group, which material risks will only be retained where this is consistent allows meaningful comparisons to be made between different with Prudentials risk appetite framework, i. e. : business units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown below.
The retention of the risk contributes to value creation.
Governance The Group is able to withstand the impact of an adverse The Groups internal control processes are detailed in outcome.
This is supported by the The Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, Group Risk Framework, which provides an overview of the processes and controls to manage the risk.
Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management.
Risk categorisation Category Risk type Definition Financial risks Market risk The risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Credit risk The risk of loss if another party fails to perform its obligations, or fails to perform them in a timely fashion.
Insurance risk The inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
This includes adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
Liquidity risk The risk that a business, though solvent on a balance sheet basis, either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Non-financial risks Operational risk The risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
This includes legal and regulatory compliance risk.
Business Exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the environment risk fundamentals that drive the businesss overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review For joint ventures where the Group does not control laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security management, the business unit party to the arrangement must and operational security.
Additional guidelines are provided satisfy itself that suitable governance and risk management for some aspects of actuarial and finance activity.
arrangements are in place to protect the Groups interests Board: The Board has overall responsibility for the system of and comply with the Groups requirements in respect of any internal control and risk management.
It approves the overall operations it performs in support of the joint ventures activities.
framework for managing the risks faced by the Group and Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all provides strategic direction on the amount and type of risk that of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes the Group is prepared to accept.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced Group executive management: The Group Chief Executive by the Group.
The risk governance framework is based on has overall responsibility for the risks facing the Group.
The the concept of three lines of defence: risk management, risk Group Chief Executive recommends to the Board the amount oversight and independent assurance see diagram below.
and type of risk that the Group is prepared to accept, and recommends risk management strategies as well as an overall Risk management framework for managing the risks faced by the Group with Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management support from the Group Executive Committee, Group Finance and risk control lies with the Prudential plc Board of directors Director and Group level risk committees.
The Group Chief the Board, the Group Chief Executive and the chief Executive provides regular updates to the Board on the risk executives of each business unit.
Additionally, the Board position and risk policy.
has delegated responsibility to the Approvals Committee Business unit management: Business unit chief executives are to approve actions which could significantly change the risk accountable for the implementation and operation of appropriate profile of any business, capital commitments and divestments business unit risk frameworks and for ensuring compliance with within defined materiality thresholds, and certain legal matters the policy and minimum standards set by the Group.
Business involving trademarks, contracts, material guarantees and units must establish suitable governance structures that are specific interactions with third parties.
based on the concept of three lines of defence, tailored Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures as appropriate to the scale and complexity of the business have been developed at Group and or business unit levels.
As the first line of defence, business unit management These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain is responsible for identifying and managing business unit risks operational risks, including: health, safety, fraud, money and providing regular risk reporting to the Group.
Risk governance framework Risk management Risk oversight Independent assurance Prudential plc Board Group asset liability committee Group Chief Executive Group Audit Committee Balance sheet and capital management Group Executive committee Committee Group operational risk committee Business unit Group Finance chief executives Director Other GHO oversight functions Group-wide Group risk function internal audit Business unit Business unit risk functions audit committees Board Board committees Direct reporting line Management committees Provides support to committees Personnel Regular dialogue and reporting Functions Regular communication and escalation 73 Risk management continued Risk oversight Independent assurance Risk management oversight is provided by Group-level Group Audit Committee: The Group Audit Committee risk committees, the Group Finance Director and the provides independent assurance to the Board on the Group Risk function, working with counterparts in effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and the business units in addition to other Group Head risk management.
The Group Audit Committee reviews the Office GHO oversight functions.
Groups risk management framework, and regular risk reports.
The Group Audit Committee is supported by Group-wide Group-level risk committees Internal Audit.
Group Asset Liability Committee Group ALCo : The Group Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA : The GwIA function ALCo is responsible for oversight of financial risks market, independently assures the effective operation of the Groups credit, liquidity and insurance risks across the Group.
It is risk management framework.
This involves the validation chaired by the Group Finance Director and its membership of methodology application, policy compliance and control includes senior business unit and Group executives chief adequacy.
The GwIA Director reports all audit-related matters actuaries, principal asset liability management officers and to the Group Audit Committee and business unit audit chief investment officers who are involved in the management committees where appropriate and reports for management of the aforementioned risks.
Group ALCo meetings are held purposes but not audit-related matters to the Group Chief on a monthly basis.
Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee BSCMC : The BSCMC is responsible for managing the balance sheets of Risk appetite Prudential plc and oversight of the Prudential Capital business The Group risk appetite framework sets out the Groups unit.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Director and its overall tolerance to risk exposures, approach to risk and return membership includes senior representatives from GHO, optimisation and management of risk.
The Board and Group M&G and Prudential Capital.
BSCMC meetings are held Executive Committee have set up Group-level risk appetite on a monthly basis.
statements concerning the key risk exposures faced by the Group Operational Risk Committee GORC : The GORC is Group.
The Group risk appetite statements set out the Groups responsible for the oversight of non-financial risks operational, risk tolerance, or risk appetite, to shocks to the key financial business environment and strategic risks across the Group.
risk exposures market, credit and insurance risk.
Responsibilities include monitoring operational risk and related policies and processes as they are applied throughout the Limits Group.
It is chaired by the Group Finance Director and its Aggregate risk limits are defined in terms of earnings volatility membership includes senior representatives of the Group and capital requirements: and business unit risk functions.
GORC meetings are held on a quarterly basis.
a Earnings volatility: The objectives of the limits are to ensure that a the volatility of earnings is consistent with Group Risk stakeholder expectations: b the Group has adequate Group Risks mandate is to establish and embed a strategic earnings and cash flows to service debt and expected risk, capital and value management framework and risk dividends: and c that earnings and cash flows are management culture, consistent with Prudentials risk appetite, managed properly across geographies and are consistent that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and with the Groups funding strategies.
The two measures franchise value.
used are European Embedded Value EEV operating profit Group Risk is responsible for the continued enhancement and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and evolution of the Group Risk Framework: provides operating profit.
functional leadership to the business units for the oversight b Capital requirements: The objectives of the limits are of risk management across the Group: and acts as secretariat to ensure that a the Group is economically solvent: to the Group ALCo and GORC.
b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet Group Risk also has certain finance and actuarial its business objectives: c supervisory intervention is responsibilities related to Group regulatory and rating agency avoided: d any potential capital strains are identified: capital requirements, development of actuarial and financial and e accessible capital is available to meet business reporting requirements and the RAP value management objectives.
The two measures used are EU Insurance framework.
Groups Directive IGD capital requirements and economic capital requirements.
74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review Earnings measures flow Capital measures stock EEV IFRS Economic Regulatory local IGD Maintain target Maintain target Maintain target level Planned IGD EEV operating profit IFRS operating profit of capitalisation coverage Individual tail events should not significantly reduce financial Business Business resources as usual as usual Remain above Meet Group solvency No large unexpected No large unexpected minimum capitalisation requirement and hold falls in EEV operating falls in IFRS operating sufficient resources profit profit to pay dividends and fund new business Earnings Capital stress stress Business units must establish suitable market, credit, Risk management process underwriting and liquidity limits that maintain financial risk Risk mitigation exposures within the defined risk appetite.
The Group expects active management of its actual risk In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, profile against its tolerance of risk.
Primary responsibility counterparty risk limits are also set at the Group level.
Limits for identifying and implementing controls and mitigation on total Group-wide exposures to a single counterparty are strategies rests with the business units.
Group Risk provides specified for different credit rating buckets.
Actual exposures oversight and advice.
are monitored against these limits on a quarterly basis.
Risk registers are maintained that include details of the controls and mitigating actions being employed for identified Usage by business units risks.
The effectiveness of controls and progress with actions Risk appetite is part of the annual business planning cycle.
Any mitigation strategies involving The risk profile of the Group is monitored against the agreed large transactions e. g. a material derivative transaction would limits throughout the year by Group Risk.
Using submissions be subject to scrutiny at Group level before implementation.
from business units, Group Risk calculates the Groups position Prudential employs a range of risk mitigation strategies allowing for diversification effects between business units aimed at reducing the impact of a variety of risks.
Key relative to the limits implied by the risk appetite statements.
mitigation strategies include: adjustment of asset portfolios In order to determine its risk position, each business unit to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or calculates the impacts on earnings and capital measures overweight counterparty exposures : use of derivatives to of a shock to market, credit, insurance and operational hedge market risks: reinsurance programmes to limit insurance risk exposures.
risk: and corporate insurance programmes to limit impact A two-tier approach is used to apply the limits at of operational risks.
Revisions to business plans such as business unit level.
Firstly, indicative business unit risk limits reassessment of bonus rates on participating business and are calculated: these ensure that, if each business unit keeps scaling back of target new business volumes may also be within its limits, the Group risk position would be within used as a mitigating strategy.
Secondly, the impact on the risk position Contingency plans are in place for a range of operational is considered as part of Group Risks scrutiny of large risk scenarios, including incident management and business transactions or departures from plan proposed by individual continuity plans.
As a contingency plan for liquidity risk, the business units.
Group has arranged access to committed revolving credit Any potential breaches of the risk limits implied by a facilities and committed securities lending facilities.
business unit plan will necessitate a dialogue process between GHO and the business units.
Group limits may not be breached if, for example, limits in other business units are not fully utilised, or the diversification effect at Group level of a particular risk with other business units means that the Group limit is not breached.
Ultimately, authorisation to breach Group limits would require Group Executive Committee approval.
75 Risk management continued Asset liability management Business units review their risks as part of the annual Prudential manages its assets and liabilities locally, in preparation of their business plans, and review opportunities accordance with local regulatory requirements and reflecting and risks to business objectives regularly with Group executive the different types of liabilities of each business unit.
Group Risk reviews, and reports to Group asset-liability modelling is carried out locally by the business executive management, on the impact of large transactions units to perform dynamic solvency testing and assess or divergences from business plan.
Reserve adequacy testing The Group Executive Committee and Board are provided under a range of scenarios is also carried out, including with regular updates on the Groups economic capital position, scenarios prescribed by local regulatory bodies.
overall position against risk limits and RAP.
They also receive The investment strategy for assets held to back liabilities the annual financial condition reports prepared by the Groups is set locally by business units, taking into account the nature, insurance operations.
term and currency of the liabilities, and any local regulatory requirements.
The main principles are as follows: Economic capital Economic capital provides a realistic and consistent view of For liabilities that are sensitive to interest rate movements Prudentials capital requirements across the Group, allowing in particular, UK non-profit annuities and Jackson fixed for diversification benefits.
Economic capital provides valuable annuities, cash flow analysis is used to construct a portfolio insights into the risk profile of the Group and is an integral part of fixed income securities whose value changes in line with of the Groups risk management framework.
the value of liabilities when interest rates change: The Group distinguishes between two distinct types of for participating business in particular, the UK with-profits economic capital approaches: fund, stochastic asset-liability modelling is used to derive a strategic asset allocation and policyholder bonus strategy Group economic capital Prudentials Group economic that based on the model assumptions will optimise capital is calculated using an integrated model of Grouppolicyholder and shareholder returns, while maintaining wide risk, capturing dependencies and diversification financial strength.
benefits between different business units and risk The bonus strategy on participating business is an categories.
The capital requirement is determined based integral part of the asset-liability management approach on a multi-year projection, thus taking into account the for participating business: and long-term nature of Prudentials liabilities.
The Group for unit-linked business, the assets held to cover economic capital position is calculated using the Group policyholder unit accounts are invested as per the stated Solvency Model GSM an integrated stochastic assetinvestment strategy or benchmark index given in the liability model of the Group economic solvency position.
Assets in respect of non-unit Projected economic scenarios in the GSM are generated reserves e. g. sterling reserves are invested in fixed using a stochastic economic scenario generator that income securities using a cash flow matching analysis.
captures the correlations between different asset classes and geographies.
Derivative hedging strategies are also used on a controlled One-year Value at Risk Capital 1yr VaR Capital 1yr VaR basis across the Group to manage exposure to market risks.
Capital is defined as the capital required to withstand a Surplus assets held centrally are predominantly invested in maximum loss over a time period of one year, consistent short-term fixed income securities.
The Groups central with a confidence level of 99.5 per cent.
This measure was treasury function actively manages the surplus assets to developed internally as part of Prudentials RAP approach maximise returns, subject to maintaining an acceptable to risk return optimisation within the Group risk appetite degree of liquidity.
This measure captures the risk arising from individual risk types, and generally allows for diversification Risk reporting by using a correlation matrix approach.
The methodology Group Risk and other GHO oversight functions have is continually being developed and improved.
In addition individually defined and publicised frameworks, escalation to its risk management applications, the 1yr VaR Capital criteria and processes for the timely reporting of risks and framework is used for Individual Capital Assessments in incidents by business units.
As appropriate, these risks and the UK and anticipated to form the basis of Prudentials incidents are escalated to the various Group-level oversight capital modelling for future regulatory reporting and risk committees and the Board.
developments, such as Solvency II.
Internal business unit routine reporting requirements vary according to the nature of the business.
Each business unit These measures provide a consistent basis for comparing the is responsible for ensuring that its risk reporting framework risk profiles and capital requirements of different business meets both the needs of the business unit for example units.
The Group economic capital position and risk profile is reporting to the business unit risk and audit committees reported to the Board annually, with more frequent updates on and the minimum standards set by the Group for example, an ad hoc basis.
Group Risk is responsible for developing and to meet Group-level reporting requirements.
maintaining the economic capital models, and for calculating the Group economic capital position.
76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review Methodology Group economic capital position AA basis m Prudentials internal Group economic capital requirement is defined as the minimum amount of capital that the Group Group capital position at year end 2006 needs to hold in order to remain economically solvent over Excluding Egg a 25-year horizon, given a target probability of insolvency appropriate for AA-rated debt.
The target confidence level is 4,467m based on historic default rates for AA-rated debt, and varies 1,620m over the time horizon of the projection.
The economic capital requirement is calculated for in-force liabilities only, excluding 2,847m the impact of future new business and dividend distribution.
For the purposes of calculating Group economic capital, Group economic solvency is defined as the position where Group capital position at year end 2005 both: a the capital balance of the parent company is positive, Including Egg and b all business units are solvent on the applicable local regulatory basis.
This definition of solvency allows the Groups 4,114m capital position to be assessed on an economic basis while taking into account the actual regulatory constraints at the 1,719m business unit level.
2,395m Results As at 31 December 2006, the Group economic capital Available capital requirement was 1.6 billion, compared to available capital Required capital Capital surplus resources of 4.5 billion.
The Group economic capital requirement quoted is after allowance for diversification benefits between risk types and business units, and inclusive of the local regulatory capital requirements at the business unit level.
The economic capital requirement is calculated for in-force liabilities only, excluding the impact of future new business and dividend distributions.
The Group position at the end of 2006 shows a surplus position of 2.8 billion, representing an improvement of 0.5 billion from last year.
Most of this improvement comes from the sale of Egg, which has reduced the Groups exposure to credit risk.
Note that the economic capital surplus quoted above excludes any surplus in respect of the Groups participating with-profits funds.
For Group economic capital, it is assumed that any free assets in participating funds are ring-fenced to support the relevant fund and excluded from the Groups economic surplus.
Any capital injections required by participating funds on top of the ring-fenced free assets are captured in the Group economic capital requirement calculation.
For year end 2006, none of the Groups participating funds required additional economic capital on top of the ring-fenced free assets.
The allocation of economic capital diversified by risk type is shown below.
The largest risk exposure continues to be credit risk, which reflects the relative size of the exposure in Jackson and Prudential UK.
However, credit risk has reduced due to the sale of Egg and Jacksons maturing fixed annuity business.
The market risk exposure mainly reflects equity risk in Jackson and interest rate risk in Taiwan.
An increasingly significant component of the underwriting risk is attributable to longevity risk, which has increased due to the growth in annuity business being written in the UK shareholder fund.
77 Risk management continued Scenario testing Economic capital requirement split by The impact of a range of deterministic shock scenarios is business unit AA basis % tested using the Group economic capital model.
The purpose is to assess the resilience of the Groups economic solvency Risk exposure at year end 2006 position to a range of key threat scenarios.
Excluding Egg Scenarios tested include economic capital scenarios M&G GHO relating to stable, falling and rising interest rates, as well as 1 4 scenarios relating to high oil prices, lower consumption and Prudential 13 US dollar depreciation.
In addition, scenarios proposed by Corporation 38 the FSAs Financial Risk Outlook are tested.
These scenarios Asia have included a credit and house price crisis, global risks reappraisal, and a pandemic.
44 The impact of each scenario was tested by analysing the Jackson UK shareholder projected Group cash flow balances over 25 years, assuming in the model that the initial capital held by the Group is zero and the initial capital held in each business unit is equal to the Risk exposure at year end 2005 local regulatory capital requirement.
The results of the analysis Including Egg showed that the projected net cash flow balance to the Group GHO remains positive in all future years under each scenario tested.
Egg 1 12 UK shareholder Business unit local economic capital 25 M&G 4 Business units must also monitor their own economic Prudential capital requirements locally on a stand alone basis without 12 Corporation allowance for diversification effects with the rest of the Asia Group.
The business unit economic capital assessments allow 46 management to put the local regulatory capital requirements Jackson into an economic context.
These assessments must be reported annually, and included in the business unit financial condition reports.
Economic capital requirement split by risk type AA basis % Market risk Market risk is the risk that arises from adverse changes in the Risk exposure at year end 2006 value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or Excluding Egg exchange rates.
Prudentials businesses are inherently subject Operational Market to market fluctuations and general economic conditions.
In the UK, this is because a significant part of Prudentials 18 23 shareholders profit is related to bonuses for policyholders Persistency 1 declared on its with-profits products, which are broadly based on historic and current rates of return on equity, real estate and Mortality 22 fixed income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of and morbidity 36 future investment returns.
Credit In the US, fluctuations in interest rates can affect results from Jackson, which has a significant spread-based business and where the majority of investments are in fixed-income Risk exposure at year end 2005 securities.
The spread is the difference between the rate Including Egg of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the policyholders liabilities and the amounts that are credited Operational Market to policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject to 18 18 minimum crediting rates.
Jackson also writes a significant Persistency 1 amount of variable annuities that offer capital or income protection guarantees.
Any cost of the guarantees that Mortality 13 and morbidity remain unhedged will affect the Companys results.
50 Credit 78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review For some non-linked investment products, in particular those The Group manages this risk by adopting close asset-liability written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be matching criteria, to minimise the impact of mismatches possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly between the value of assets and liabilities from interest rate match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
Interest rate risk is also controlled through the use true in those countries where bond markets are not developed of a variety of derivative instruments, including futures, options and in certain markets, such as Taiwan, where regulated and swaps, in order to hedge against unfavourable market surrender values are set with reference to the interest rate movements in interest rates inherent in the underlying assets environment prevailing at time of policy issue.
The impact of exposure to sustained low interest in a mismatch due to the duration and uncertainty of the rates is regularly monitored.
liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable duration.
This residual asset-liability mismatch risk can be Equity risk managed but not eliminated.
Where interest rates for these The Group is subject to equity price risk due to daily changes markets remain lower than those implied by surrender values in the market values of its equity securities portfolio.
The over a sustained period this could have an adverse impact on Groups shareholders are exposed to both direct equity the Groups reported profit.
shareholdings in its shareholder assets, and indirectly to the For each of the major components of market risk, impact arising from changes in the value of equities held in described in more detail below, Prudential has put in place policyholders funds from which management charges or a policies and procedures to set out how each risk should be share of performance are taken, as well as from its interest in managed and monitored, and the approach to setting an the free estate of long-term funds.
At a business unit level, equity price risk is actively managed through the use of derivative instruments, Foreign exchange risk including futures and options, in order to mitigate anticipated Prudential currently operates in the UK, the US, 13 countries unfavourable market movements where this lies outside the in Asia and Europe.
Due to the geographical diversity of risk appetite of the fund concerned.
Business units actively Prudentials businesses, it is subject to the risk of exchange rate model the performance of equities through the use of fluctuations.
Prudentials international operations in the US and stochastic models, in particular to understand the impact of Asia, which represent a significant proportion of operating equity performance on guarantees, options and bonus rates.
profit and shareholders funds, generally write policies and In particular, Jackson actively hedges its exposure to the invest in assets denominated in local currency.
Although this guarantees arising from its variable annuity business.
Where practice limits the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local possible, Jackson will seek to find offsetting exposures across operating results, it can lead to significant fluctuations in its asset and liability portfolios and to conduct its hedging Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon translation activities on a macro basis, and relies on option-based of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure relating strategies to address extreme risks.
Although the macro to the translation of reported earnings is not separately approach and the hedging of extreme events are not managed.
Consequently, this could impact on the Groups consistent with the way certain accounting methods test for gearing ratios defined as debt over debt plus shareholders effectiveness, our view is that the efficiency of execution and funds.
The impact of gains or losses on currency translations the need to hedge on an economic basis outweighs the need is recorded as a component within the statement of changes to avoid any short-term accounting volatility.
The Group does not have material holdings of unquoted Prudential does not generally seek to hedge foreign equity securities.
In addition, local asset admissibility currency revenues, as these are substantially retained locally regulations require that business units hold diversified to support the growth of the Groups business and meet local portfolios of assets, thereby reducing exposure to regulatory and market requirements.
However, where foreign individual equities.
surplus is deemed to be supporting UK capital or shareholders interests this exposure is hedged if it is deemed optimal Credit risk from an economic perspective.
Currency borrowings and Credit risk is the risk of loss if another party fails to meet derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits its obligations, or fails to perform them in a timely manner.
Credit risk is Prudentials most significant financial risk, and it is actively monitored by business units via business unit Interest rate risk investment committees and ALCos.
Interest rate risk arises primarily from Prudentials investments in long-term debt and fixed income securities.
Interest rate risk also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher than the value of backing assets when interest rates rise or fall.
79 Risk management continued In addition to business unit operational limits on credit Liquidity risk risk requiring business units to implement local credit risk Liquidity risk is the risk that a business, though solvent on policies, Prudentials management of credit risk includes a balance sheet basis, either does not have the financial monitoring exposures at Group level.
Large individual resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can counterparty exposures are aggregated and monitored on secure the resources only at excessive cost.
a quarterly basis against centrally-set red zone, amber zone Business units have their own liquidity policies, which and green zone limits.
This active monitoring of counterparty also depend on the maturity of the business, and the available exposures, on a consolidated Group level, is undertaken by assets in the markets.
For Prudential UK, liquidity risk is the Group ALCo.
managed through holding assets at the greater of a specified Financial assets are graded according to current credit percentage of total funds managed or a specified multiple ratings issued by the rating agencies.
Financial assets are of the average peak daily cash flow over the last 12 months.
classified within the range of AAA to D ratings, with AAA being For Jackson, modelling is performed on how quickly their the highest possible rating.
Typically, around 95 per cent of the different liabilities could be called, and how quickly they could Groups assets are rated within the investment grade category also liquidate their assets, ensuring that at 30 days, 90 days BBBand higher.
The level of financial assets which fall and one year the cash available exceeds potential obligations.
outside the range of the ratings is also monitored on an For Prudential Group, there is a committed corporate credit ongoing basis, and this tends to be less than one per cent facility for liquidity.
of shareholder assets at any given point in time.
Non-financial risk Insurance risk Prudentials Group Risk Framework also covers non-financial Insurance risk is the inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, risks operational risk, business environment risk and amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
Prudential processes a large number of complex adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for Prudential outsources several operations, including certain reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
In UK processing and IT functions and is thus reliant upon the common with other industry participants, the profitability of operational processing performance of its outsourcing the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including partners.
mortality and morbidity trends, voluntary discontinuance rates, Business units are responsible for the management of investment performance, unit cost of administration and new the non-financial risks associated with their business.
conduct a formal self-assessment of material operational risks For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about and assess their impact and likelihood.
Business units also future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its identify controls available to mitigate the impact and or UK annuity business where, in exchange for their accumulated likelihood of the identified risk.
The quality of the controls pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a design is also assessed.
guaranteed payment, for as long as they live.
Prudential Quantitative analysis is carried out for operational risks with conducts rigorous research into longevity risk using data from material and potential direct losses i. e. excluding opportunity its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity costs and lost revenue.
For each risk, the analysis describes pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that the possible manifestations of the risk and the controls against current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at it in each business unit and, on this basis, frequency and levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality severity parameters are assigned to each risk.
The effect of Investigations CMI medium cohort table projections as operational risk on the Group as a whole is analysed by published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
aggregating the individual risks using a Group operational risk Prudentials voluntary discontinuance persistency capital model, allowing for the correlations and diversification assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant effects between different risk types and business units.
line of business, and any expectations of future persistency.
Where appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship, which is either assumed or historically observed, between persistency and investment returns and the resulting additional risk is allowed for.
