Additional information Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating of any of these counterparties, particularly in conditions results, financial condition and trading price.
The risk factors of major market disruption, to discharge their obligations, mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete or where adequate collateral is not in place, could have and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and an adverse impact on Prudentials results.
The information given is as of the date of this report, is not updated, and any forward-looking statements Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate are made subject to the reservations specified below under fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity of its Forward-Looking Statements.
Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, it Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials fluctuations and general economic conditions.
international operations in the US and Asia, which represent Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market a significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders fluctuations and general economic conditions.
In the UK, funds, generally write policies and invest in assets denominated this is because a significant part of Prudentials shareholders in local currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of profit is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on its exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, it can with-profits products, which are broadly based on historic and lead to significant fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated current rates of return on equity, real estate and fixed income financial statements upon translation of results into pounds securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of future sterling.
The currency exposure relating to the translation of investment returns.
reported earnings is not separately managed.
Consequently, In the US, fluctuations in interest rates can affect results this could impact on the Groups gearing ratios defined as from Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson, debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The impact of gains which has a significant spread-based business and where the or losses on currency translations is recorded as a component majority of investments are in fixed-income securities.
The within the statement of changes in equity.
spread is the difference between the rate of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the policyholders liabilities Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation and the amounts that are credited to policyholders in the and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of form of benefit increases, subject to minimum crediting rates.
changes in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations Jackson also writes a significant amount of variable annuities and any accounting standards in the markets in which that offer capital or income protection guarantees.
of the guarantees that remain unhedged will affect the Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory Companys results.
interpretation applying to companies in the financial services For some non unit-linked products, in particular those and insurance industries in any of the markets in which written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be be possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials exactly match those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is product range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, particularly true in those countries where bond markets are consequently, reported results and financing requirements.
not developed and in certain markets such as Taiwan where For instance, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential regulated surrender values are set by regulators with reference operates may change the level of capital required to be held to the interest rate environment prevailing at time of policy by individual businesses.
Also these changes could include issue.
This results in a mismatch due to the duration and possible changes in the regulatory framework for pension uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient arrangements and policies, the regulation of selling practices assets of a suitable duration.
This residual asset liability and solvency requirements.
In the UK several proposed and mismatch risk can be managed but not eliminated.
Where potential regulatory changes could have significant effect on interest rates in these markets remain lower than interest rates the types of products Prudential provides to its customers and used to calculate surrender values over a sustained period this intermediaries and how those products are priced, distributed could have an adverse impact on the Groups reported profit.
These include the Financial Services Authoritys In all markets in which Prudential operates, its businesses FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative, the FSAs review are susceptible to general economic conditions and changes in of retail distribution, the proposed regulatory change affecting investment returns, which can also change the level of demand the pensions market and the implementation of the new for Prudentials products.
Past uncertain trends in international European Union EU solvency framework for insurers economic and investment climates which have adversely Solvency II which should be implemented by member states affected Prudentials business and profitability could be during 2012. repeated.
This adverse effect would be felt principally through The current EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD requires reduced investment returns and higher credit defaults.
In European financial services groups to demonstrate net addition, falling investment returns could impair its ability to aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency requirements write significant volumes of new business.
Prudential, in the at the Group level in respect of shareholder-owned entities.
normal course of business, enters into a variety of transactions, The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential needs including derivative transactions with counterparties.
Failure to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital 336 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Additional information at the Group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the US and the of its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, UK are moving towards a regime based on principles-based short-term movements in global foreign exchange rates, regulation which brings an element of uncertainty.
These interest rates, deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that In addition, changes in the local regulatory environment of product providers use to select third-party distributors.
In countries where this is deemed equivalent to the EU could some case product providers can be held responsible for the affect the calculation of the Groups solvency position.
The deficiencies of third-party distributors.
application of Solvency II requirements to international groups In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, is still unclear and there is a risk of inconsistent application and continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual in different member states which may place Prudential at a fund, fixed index and variable annuity and insurance product competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European industries.
This includes new regulations in respect of the financial services groups.
suitability of broker-dealers sales of certain products.
As a Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of created investor compensation schemes that require industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries mandatory contributions from market participants in some and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
instances in the event of a failure of a market participant.
In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different As a major participant in the majority of its chosen markets, speeds, driven by a combination of global factors and local circumstances could arise where Prudential, along with considerations.
There is a risk that new requirements are other companies, may be required to make additional retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with Litigation and disputes may adversely affect Prudentials current international financial reporting standards IFRS profitability and financial condition.
applicable to the insurance industry.
The International Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions Accounting Standards Board IASB introduced a framework and disputes in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment that it described as Phase I that permitted insurers to continue management and other business operations.
These legal actions to use the statutory basis of accounting that existed in their and disputes may relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
The IASB has published and operations that are specific to Prudential, or that are proposals in its Phase II discussion paper that would introduce common to companies that operate in Prudentials markets.
significant changes to the statutory reporting of insurance entities Legal actions and disputes may arise under contracts, regulations that prepare accounts according to IFRS.
It is uncertain in what or from a course of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be form the proposals in the discussion paper will be taken forward class actions.
Although Prudential believes that it has adequately into a definitive IFRS and when such changes might take effect.
reserved in all material aspects for the costs of litigation and European Embedded Value EEV basis results are regulatory matters, no assurance can be provided that such published as supplementary information.
The EEV basis is reserves are sufficient.
Given the large or indeterminate a value based reporting method for Prudentials long-term amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the inherent business which is used by market analysts and which underpins unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible that an a significant part of the key performance indicators used by adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an adverse the Companys management for both internal and external effect on Prudentials results of operation or cash flows.
The Chief Financial Officers CFO Forum will be publishing principles and guidance for calculating EEV Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly competitive results on a market-consistent basis.
Prudential intends to environments with developing demographic trends adopt the market-consistent approach in 2008.
This will result and Prudentials continued profitability depends on its in a restatement of reported EEV results and change the managements ability to respond to these pressures reporting basis of future results.
The markets for financial services in the UK, US and Asia are The resolution of several issues affecting the financial highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials services industry could have a negative impact on ability to sell its products and its continued profitability, including Prudentials reported results or on its reputation or price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of on its relations with current and potential customers.
product lines and product quality, brand strength and name Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and recognition, investment management performance, historical regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in bonus levels, developing demographic trends and customer the UK and internationally.
This could be a review of business appetite for certain savings products.
In some of its markets sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater at the time such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress financial resources or a greater market share, offer a broader to certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment range of products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products and ratios.
Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, employees with local experience, particularly in Asia, may limit including in the latter case businesses it has closed.
the Groups potential to grow its business as quickly as planned.
337 Additional information Risk factors continued Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent in insurance market include many of the major retail financial Prudentials business could have a negative impact on its services companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & results of operations.
General, HBOS and Standard Life.
Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from mutual insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and other financial services companies such as AIG, AXA, and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business Hartford, Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF.
is dependent on processing a large number of complex In Asia, the Groups main regional competitors are transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is international financial companies, including AIG, Allianz, AXA, subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In a number of markets, local companies In addition, Prudential outsources several operations, including have a very significant market presence.
in the UK a significant part of its back office and customerPrudential believes competition will intensify across all facing functions as well as a number of IT functions.
In turn, regions in response to consumer demand, technological Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and performance of its outsourcing partners.
Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate Further, because of the long-term nature of much of return depends significantly upon its capacity to anticipate Prudentials business, accurate records have to be maintained and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls which are designed to manage and Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and credit mitigate the operational risks associated with its activities.
ratings could significantly impact its competitive position For example, any weakness in the administration systems and hurt its relationships with creditors or trading or actuarial reserving processes could have an impact on its counterparties.
results of operations during the effective period.
Prudential Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which has not experienced or identified any operational risks are used by the market to measure its ability to meet in its systems or processes during 2007, or which have policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, a significant public confidence in most of Prudentials products, and as negative impact on its results of operations.
Changes in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies could result in downgrades Adverse experience against the assumptions used in that do not reflect changes in the general economic conditions pricing products and reporting business results could or Prudentials financial condition.
Downgrades in Prudentials significantly affect Prudentials results of operations.
ratings could have an adverse effect on its ability to market Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number products and retain current policyholders.
In addition, the of factors in determining the pricing of its products and interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected by for reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure Prudentials For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about ability to meet its contractual obligations.
Prudential believes future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for the credit rating downgrades it experienced in 2002 and 2003, its UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium equal to together with the rest of the UK insurance industry, and in 2006 the capital value of their accumulated pension fund, pension by Standard & Poors to bring Prudential into line with the annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually standard rating agency notching between operating subsidiary monthly, for as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts financial strength rating and the credit rating for other European rigorous research into longevity risk, using data from its insurance holding companies, have not to date had a substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity discernible impact on the performance of its business.
pricing and reserving policy, Prudential UK assumes that Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable current rates of mortality continuously improve over time outlook by Moodys, A stable outlook by Standard & Poors at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous and AA stable outlook by Fitch.
Mortality Investigations CMI medium cohort table projections Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
A-1 by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
If mortality improvement rates significantly exceed the Prudential Assurance Companys PACs financial improvement assumed, Prudentials results of operations strength is rated Aa1 negative outlook by Moodys, AA could be adversely affected.
stable outlook by Standard & Poors and AA stable outlook A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes by Fitch.
about future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products by its customers persistency.
This is particularly relevant to its lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business.
Any expected deterioration in future persistency is also reflected in the assumption.
If actual levels of future persistency are 338 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Additional information significantly lower than assumed that is, policy termination Prudential operates in a number of markets through joint rates are significantly higher than assumed, Prudentials ventures and other arrangements with third parties.
These results of operations could be adversely affected.
arrangements involve certain risks that Prudential does In common with other industry participants, the not face with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries.
profitability of the Groups businesses depends on a mix Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, policy regulation to operate, through joint ventures.
Prudentials surrender rates, investment performance, unit cost of ability to exercise management control over its joint venture administration and new business acquisition expense.
operations and its investment in them depends on the terms of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation As a holding company, Prudential is dependent of control among, and continued co-operation between, the upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses joint venture participants.
Prudential may also face financial and dividend payments.
or other exposure in the event that any of its joint venture Prudentials insurance and investment management operations partners fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
In addition, a significant As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds proportion of the Groups product distribution is carried are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, out through arrangements with third parties not controlled the shareholder transfer from Prudentials long-term funds and by Prudential and is dependent upon continuation of these any amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, relationships.
A temporary or permanent disruption to these debt and commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are distribution arrangements could affect Prudentials results regulated and therefore have restrictions that can limit the of operations.
payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit the Groups ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
