Business review continued Risk and capital management Governance Group Board of Directors Group Audit Committee Advances Committee Group Executive Management Committee Key Group Asset and Group Risk Committee Liability Management Group Credit Committee Board Committees Committee Executive Committees The Group Board of directors sets the overall risk appetite and philosophy: the risk and capital framework underpins delivery of the Boards strategy.
The Board is supported by three committees: Group Audit Committee GAC, comprising independent Risk and capital non-executive directors, focuses on financial reporting and It is the Groups policy to optimise return to shareholders while application of accounting policies as part of the internal maintaining a strong capital base and credit rating to support control and risk assessment framework.
GAC monitors the business growth and meet regulatory capital requirements at identification, evaluation and management of all significant all times.
This work is supported by Group Internal Audit, which provides an independent assessment The Group currently uses a target range for the tier 1 capital of the design, adequacy and effectiveness of internal ratio of 7.0% to 8.0% for its long-term capital planning with the controls.
aim of operating around the mid-point of this range.
This is in excess of minimum regulatory requirements.
Advances Committee AC, reporting to the Board, deals with transactions that exceed the Group Credit Committees Capital adequacy and risk management are closely aligned.
The Group undertakes a regular assessment of its internal capital requirement based on a quantification of the material Group Executive Management Committee GEMC, risks to which it is exposed.
This assessment includes the use an executive committee, ensures that implementation of stress tests to assess whether the Groups capital resources of strategy and operations are in line with the agreed risk are adequate to remain above minimum requirements during a appetite.
GEMC is supported by the following: macroeconomic recession.
The results of this internal capital assessment are reviewed by the Group Board and are used to Group Risk Committee GRC recommends and ensure the adequacy of the Groups available capital approves limits, processes and policies that ensure the resources, to measure risk-adjusted returns, to inform the effective management of all material non-balance sheet annual business and financial planning process and to inform risks across the Group.
the Boards approval of risk appetite limits.
Group Credit Committee GCC approves credit The allocation of capital resources to divisions is determined proposals under authority delegated to it by the Board as part of the annual business and financial planning process.
Risk appetite is measured as the maximum level of retained Group Asset and Liability Management Committee risk the Group will accept to deliver its business objectives.
GALCO is responsible for identifying, managing and Risk appetite is generally defined through both quantitative and controlling the Group balance sheet risks.
These risks are qualitative techniques including stress testing, risk managed by setting limits and controls for capital adequacy, concentration, value-at-risk and risk underwriting criteria, funding and liquidity, intra-group exposures, and nonensuring that appropriate principles, policies and procedures trading interest rate, equity and foreign currency risk.
70 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review The main risks facing the Group are shown below.
These These risk and capital management processes performed well should be considered in conjunction with the Risk factors set throughout 2007, and continued working through the market out on pages 32 and 33 which could affect the Groups disruption seen since August 2007. performance.
Management responsibilities Credit risk: is the risk arising from the possibility that the All staff have a role to play in the day to day management of Group will incur losses from the failure of customers to meet risk in their division, in line with Group policy, which is set and their obligations.
managed by specialist staff in: Funding and liquidity risk: is the risk the Group is unable to Risk Management: credit, market, regulatory, enterprise and meet its obligations as they fall due.
insurance risk, together with risk analytics.
Market risk: the Group is exposed to market risk because of Group Treasury: balance sheet, capital management, intrapositions held in its trading portfolios and its non-trading group credit exposure, funding and liquidity and hedging businesses.
Pension obligation risk: is the risk that the liabilities of the Independence underpins the approach to risk management, Groups various defined benefit pension schemes will which is reinforced throughout the Group by appropriate exceed their assets as a result of which the Group is reporting lines.
required or chooses to make additional contributions to schemes.
Developments in 2007 Following its acquisition by RFS Holdings, ABN AMRO is subject Equity risk: reflects the variability in the value of equity to the Groups high level controls and oversight by RBS control investments resulting in gains or losses.
Although its risk systems are not yet integrated with those of the Group, the data relating to ABN AMRO are Insurance risk: the Group is exposed to insurance risk, either presented on a consistent basis.
In order to facilitate directly through its businesses or through using insurance as comparisons with prior years the data relating to the Group a tool to mitigate other risk exposures.
excluding ABN AMRO are separately identified.
ABN AMRO data are analysed between businesses acquired by RBS and Operational risk: is the risk arising from the Groups people, those acquired by Fortis and Santander.
processes, systems, physical assets and external events.
Regulatory risk: is the risk arising from failing to meet the requirements and expectations of the Groups many regulators, or from a failure to address or implement any change in these requirements or expectations.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 71 Business review
