Economic and monetary environment Against the backdrop of robust demand, and an upward trend The Groups earnings are affected by the economic and in CPI-inflation, the European Central Bank raised the official monetary environment in its key markets UK, US, Eurozone refinancing rate twice in the first half of 2007, from 3.5% to and Asia Pacific.
4%, and staying on hold for the rest of the year.
Rapid economic growth in emerging market economies resulted in Global financial markets entered a period of unprecedented strong demand for Eurozone export goods, despite a 5% strain in the second half of 2007, with reference interbank trade-weighted appreciation of the euro.
Overall, the Eurozone lending rates spiking sharply and parts of the short-term appeared to be less affected by the liquidity squeeze than the money market seizing up.
This temporarily tightened monetary UK or the US, partly because domestic demand had been less conditions, affecting credit supply and denting investor risk reliant on credit.
appetite, at a time when a slowdown in global economic activity had started.
After a series of individual efforts, central Asia Pacific was the most dynamic region in 2007, with banks in Canada, the Eurozone, Switzerland, the UK and the economic growth outpacing the rate of expansion recorded in US intervened in concert to improve liquidity conditions in other regions.
Exports remained the main driver of economic money markets in December.
This measure was successful in growth, resulting in a large current account surplus, and bringing interest rate spreads in interbank markets back corresponding inflows of foreign exchange into the region.
towards historic averages, but uncertainties about the full Some countries in the region continued to manage their impact on the real economy and the future evolution of debt currencies, to prevent appreciation.
This loosening of monetary markets remain.
Inflationary pressures started to emerge, possibly requiring a tighter stance of The UK interest rate cycle peaked in 2007, with the Monetary monetary policy further out.
Policy Committee MPC first hiking the Bank Rate from 5% to 5.75% in three successive 25bps moves in January, May and In addition to influencing the level of effective demand July, before cutting it back to 5.50% in December and most countries face, exchange rates affect earnings reported by the recently to 5.25% in February.
The rate increases were due to a Groups non-UK subsidiaries, and the value of non-sterling combination of above-trend growth at 3.1% and CPI-inflation denominated assets and liabilities.
Sterling remained strong exceeding the official target of 2% for most of the year on the against the dollar in 2007, gaining another 1%, but slipped by back of high commodity prices.
Upside risks to inflation over 8% against the euro.
These movements have mixed effects on the medium-term prevailed, preventing the MPC from cutting the Groups reported earnings, assets and liabilities, boosting more aggressively in response to the liquidity squeeze in their sterling-value when denominated in euro but depressing financial markets in December.
On balance, monetary their sterling-value when denominated in dollars.
conditions were probably in restrictive territory in 2007, which is expected to lead to slower growth in 2008.
Sterlings 6% Supervision and regulation depreciation on a trade-weighted basis only partly offset the 1.
United Kingdom dampening impact from strains in money markets and high 1.1 Authorised firms in the Group inflation-adjusted interest rates, which only started to fall The UK Financial Services Authority FSA is the towards the end of the year.
consolidated supervisor of the Group and the Royal Bank.
As at 31 December 2007, 31 companies in the Group US monetary conditions were close to neutral at the start of excluding subsidiaries of the ABN AMRO Group, 2007, with policy rates on hold at 5.25% until the onset of the spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, liquidity crisis in August.
A marked slowdown in the US insurance and investment business, were authorised to housing market, deterioration in consumer and business conduct financial activities regulated by the FSA.
confidence and the liquidity squeeze in financial markets prompted the Federal Open Market Committee FOMC to The UK authorised banks in the Group include the Royal bring the federal funds rate down to 4.25% by the end of the Bank, NatWest, Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Ltd. year.
Despite a 10% decline in the value of the dollar on a Wholesale activities, other than Group Treasury activities, trade-weighted basis and the resulting stimulus for US exports, are concentrated in the Groups Corporate Markets division the overall outlook for the US economy darkened materially in and are undertaken under the names of the Royal Bank the first two months of 2008.
The FOMC continued to react and NatWest.
UK retail banking activities are managed by aggressively in the face of more evidence of downside risks to the Retail Markets division.
The exception is Ulster Bank economic growth, and further reduced the policy rate by Ltd, which is run as a separate division within the Group.
125bps at two meetings in January, bringing it to 3.00% at the Ulster Bank Ltd provides banking services in Northern end of February 2008.
Even though CPI-inflation ran above 4% Ireland while the banking service to the Republic of Ireland by the end of 2007, US bond markets did not seem overly is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd which is primarily concerned about rising inflationary pressure in the longer term, supervised by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory as the long-end of the yield curve shifted downwards too.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 231 Additional information Additional information continued Investment management business is principally undertaken UK FSA authorised firms must also comply with rules by companies in the Retail Markets division, including designed to reduce the scope for firms to be used for Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in financial crime and in particular money laundering.
the Corporate Markets division, RBS Asset Management Revised Joint Money Laundering Steering Group Guidance Limited.
Notes were issued on 13 November 2007 to take into account the new Money Laundering Regulations 2007.
General insurance business is principally undertaken by These Regulations came into force on 15 December 2007 companies in the RBS Insurance division, including Direct and implemented the EUs Third Money Laundering Line Insurance plc and Churchill Insurance Company Directive.
Amongst their other provisions, the Regulations Limited.
Life assurance business is undertaken by Royal endorse a risk based approach to combating money Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life laundering, while also prescribing enhanced due Assurance Limited with the Groups partner, the AVIVA diligence for non face to face customers, politically Group and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited.
exposed persons PEPs and correspondent banking.
Whilst for all material purposes the Group is already 1.2 Regulatory developments and implementation.
compliant these provisions having been anticipated in Basel II is the most significant change to regulation of the industry guidance for some time internal processes are banking industry for many years and will have a lasting continually reviewed to ensure best practice standards are effect on our relationships with customers, investors and met.
In particular, the Group has issued new internal policy other key stakeholders.
The FSA in the UK has endorsed guidelines based on the regulations and supporting the Groups approach to managing credit risk under Basel industry guidance against which all divisions have II.
This puts us among the small number of UK financial undertaken a gap analysis as a basis for further action services organisations that are using Advanced Internal plans where necessary.
Ratings Based approach for the calculation of credit risk capital requirements from 1 January 2008.
From 2008, the 1.3 Information Commissioners Office Group will apply the Standardised Approach for The Information Commissioners Office ICO is the UKs operational risk, migrating to the Advanced Measurement independent public body set up to promote access to Approach AMA in line with the US timescales.
The Group official information and to protect personal information.
The has implemented Pillar 2 and Pillar 3 in line with regulatory ICO enforces the Data Protection Act 1998, the Freedom of requirements.
Information Act 2000, the Privacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003 and the Environmental In addition, the Group successfully implemented the Information Regulations 2004, regulating the organisations Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID by the that come within their remits.
They promote awareness of implementation date of 1 November 2007.
MiFID information rights and obligations and ensure compliance.
established a comprehensive legislative framework at the The Commissioner reports directly to Parliament and has European level, which is now implemented in the UK, for the power to order compliance, using enforcement and the establishment and conduct of investment firms, prosecution.
The Group takes data protection very multilateral trading facilities and regulated markets.
seriously and follows the guidance provided by the ICO.
The Group continues to improve its processes in line with The FSAs high level principles require all regulated firms to changing guidelines and in order to meet customers treat their customers fairly and a specific industry wide increasing expectations in relation to information security.
project on Treating Customers Fairly TCF was launched in 2004.
The FSA emphasised that TCF will be a key area 2. International of focus for the regulator over the coming years.
In the 2.1 ABN AMRO summer of 2007 it followed this up by setting out specific The consolidated supervisor of ABN AMRO is the Dutch targets that it would expect all firms to meet during 2008 in central bank, fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB.
It operates relation to management information required to evidence partly as the Dutch central bank and prudential supervisor TCF embeddedness.
The Group already had several of banks and insurance companies: and also as part of underlying principles built into the existing customer the European System of Central Banks.
Following the proposition which clearly demonstrated the concept of acquisition of ABN AMRO the Group now operates in over fairness in action.
These fundamental business values 50 countries.
include demonstrating fairness, transparency and honesty throughout the whole relationship with our customers, 2.2 United States ensuring that any representations we make are clear, fair The Group is both a bank holding company and financial and not misleading, and having mechanisms in place to holding company within the meaning of the US Bank avoid things going wrong and correct any deficiencies.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and supervision of the Board of Governors of 232 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Additional information the Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve.
The Group is subject to extensive regulations that impose Among other things, the Groups direct and indirect obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate activities and investments in the United States are limited to policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and those that are financial in nature or incidental or report money laundering and terrorist financing and to complementary to a financial activity, as determined by ensure compliance with US economic sanctions against the Federal Reserve.
The Group is also required to obtain designated foreign countries, nationals and others.
Antithe prior approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring, money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than regulations have become a major focus of US government 5% of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or policy relating to financial institutions and are rigorously bank holding company.
enforced by US government agencies.
Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is 2.3 Other jurisdictions required to act as a source of financial strength for its US The Group and Bank of China have established an bank subsidiaries.
Among other things, this source of exclusive strategic partnership.
The Group and Bank of strength obligation could require the Group to inject capital China have agreed to co-operate across a range of into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became business activities, building on Bank of Chinas distribution undercapitalised.
strength and the Groups product skills in areas including credit cards, wealth management, corporate banking and The Groups US bank and non-bank subsidiaries and personal lines insurance.
The Group also continues to RBSs US branches are also subject to supervision and grow its other Asian activities, having recently set up new regulation by a variety of other U. S. regulatory agencies.
branches in the Middle East and Far East.
As in all As of 1 September 2007, Citizens Financial Groups statejurisdictions in which the Group undertakes business, it chartered bank subsidiaries with the exception of its bank considers regulatory risk as a key component of is new subsidiary in the State of Pennsylvania were merged and products approval process to ensure that it meets with consolidated into a single nationally chartered bank, RBS local regulatory requirements.
As a result, RBS Citizens, NA is now supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the Department of Justice investigation Currency, a bureau of the US Department of the Treasury As previously disclosed by ABN AMRO, the United States charged with the regulation and supervision of nationally Department of Justice has been conducting a criminal chartered banks.
Citizens Financial Group remains under investigation into ABN AMROs dollar clearing activities, Office the supervision of the Federal Reserve as a bank holding of Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other company.
Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania is subject to the Bank Secrecy Act compliance matters.
ABN AMRO has regulation and supervision of the Pennsylvania Department cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the of Banking and the US Federal Deposit Insurance investigation.
Prior to the acquisition by the Group, ABN AMRO Corporation.
RBSs New York branch is supervised by the had reached an agreement in principle with the Department of New York State Banking Department, and its Connecticut Justice that would resolve all presently known aspects of the branch is supervised by the Connecticut Department of ongoing investigation by way of a Deferred Prosecution Banking.
Both branches are also subject to supervisory Agreement in return for a settlement payment by ABN AMRO oversight by the Federal Reserve, through the Federal of US$500 million which amount was accrued by ABN AMRO Reserve Bank of Boston.
in its interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 June 2007.
Negotiations are continuing to enable a written The Groups US insurance agencies are regulated by state agreement to be concluded.
The Groups US broker dealer, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is subject to regulation Sub-prime exposures and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have received requests for Commission and the Financial Industry National Regulatory information from various US governmental agencies and selfAssociation FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
regulatory organisations including in connection with sub-prime With respect to its futures activities, Greenwich Capital mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations Markets, Inc. is also subject to regulation and oversight by and synthetic products related to sub-prime mortgages.
The the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Group and its subsidiaries are cooperating with these various Chicago Board of Trade.
requests for information and investigations.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 233 Additional information
