Risk management and internal control report 40 41 In this section we detail the work undertaken an on-line worldwide risk management In addition, the Groups seed capital in connection with the Groups operational system.
The Group Risk Committee receives investments may also be hedged in risk management process and system of reports from line management regarding any respect of market risk where it is possible internal controls.
matters giving cause for concern and ensures to construct an effective hedge and there is appropriate remedial action is taken.
a perceived risk of volatility in the value of the investment due to market movements.
Risk management Credit risk Credit risk limits are reviewed and The decisions to hedge market risk on seed The Board is accountable for risk and agreed centrally.
In respect of agency risk, capital investments, typically using futures, is responsible for oversight of the risk a dedicated team of credit professionals, are taken by the Group Capital Committee management process.
The Board has together with local risk personnel are in consultation with the business.
considered the key risks facing the Group and responsible for monitoring exposures the exposure in relation to each of those risks.
against these limits and reporting to Group Monitoring risk The liquidity of the banking Risk management by exception.
In respect entities within the Group is monitored by The Group Management Committee of principal risk, the Group sets the overall the relevant local risk committees.
The reviews the key corporate risks facing the Group limit and delegates authority to set Group Capital Committee monitors and Group and receives regular reports as to the credit limits within the overall limit to the controls the use and liquidity of the Groups current status of each risk.
It has approved Groups banking businesses in London capital resources.
a governance and risk framework which and Switzerland.
includes the responsibility of the Chief Dedicated personnel are responsible for Financial Officer for the risk and control Interest rate and market risk The Group producing and maintaining market and framework within the Group and the does not run a trading book.
The Private liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial independent monitoring and reporting Banking subsidiaries hold certain financial Services Authoritys methodologies under the of risk and controls.
A risk management instruments debt securities, forward foreign Capital Adequacy Directive.
The underlying structure is in place which embeds risk exchange contracts and interest rate methodologies and limits are reviewed and management within the business.
swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
Local risk committees review It is Group policy to hedge interest rate risk exposures against limits on a regular basis.
Group Risk Committee The Group Risk which is largely mitigated by the short-term Committee supports the Chief Financial Group Compliance undertakes detailed nature of our holdings of interest-bearing Officer in discharging the responsibilities monitoring activities to review compliance assets and liabilities.
The Group has a outlined above and is the principal with legal and regulatory requirements.
number of overseas subsidiaries whose management committee for the monitoring Group Internal Audit carries out a programme shareholders funds, revenues and and reporting of risks and controls.
The of audits approved by the Audit Committee, expenses are denominated principally in Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial including reviews of the risk management local currencies.
Forward foreign exchange Officer, and includes representatives from process and advice and recommendations contracts with third parties are used to the businesses and the control functions.
on improving the control environment.
mitigate exposure to currency movements The Committee reviews and monitors the where it is considered that the sterling adequacy and effectiveness of the process values of such amounts are at risk.
The for the identification, assessment, mitigation, use of such instruments is limited and monitoring and management of all risks faced is subject to approval by the Group by the Group in achieving its business Capital Committee.
Local management is responsible for operational risk controls where appropriate and, depending on the size and complexity of the business unit, risk and control maps have been prepared which have been captured on Risk management and internal control report Quarterly reports from the Heads of Group The Board is of the view that there is an Internal control Compliance and Group Risk on the control ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The Board is responsible for the Groups environment and relevant issues arising and managing the Groups significant system of internal control and for reviewing within the Group, highlighting any major risks that: its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide instances of non-compliance and the only reasonable and not absolute assurance Has been in place for the year ended actions being taken to remedy such nonagainst material financial misstatement or loss 31 December 2007 and up to the compliance.
This includes consideration of and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
date of approval of the Annual Report fraud prevention measures in place across On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee and Accounts: the Group: carried out its annual assessment of the Is regularly reviewed by the Board A twice-yearly report from the Group effectiveness of internal controls during 2007 and complies with the internal control General Counsel outlining the Groups using the following to support its conclusions: guidance for directors in the Combined legal risks: Code the Turnbull guidance 2005 : and Quarterly reports from the Head of The six-monthly assessments by the Necessary actions have been or are being Group Internal Audit on the key issues Group Management Committee of key taken to remedy any significant failings arising from Internal Audits inspection risks and of responsibilities for those risks.
identified as part of the ongoing risk programme: This assessment is supplemented where management process.
Group Internal Audits review of the appropriate with the results of the semieffectiveness and application of the annual business risks and controls risk management process: and evaluation survey completed by business Annual and regular reports from the area heads across the Group: Head of Group Internal Audit on the control environment.
