Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 22 22 Business review continued SVG Advisers Risks and risk management The investment management and advisory business, The Board has adopted a matrix of key risks which affect SVG Advisers was established in 2001 with the key objective its business and a robust framework of internal control which of providing intelligent solutions and innovative structures is designed to monitor those risks and to provide a monitoring for investing in private equity or public equity using private system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks as far equity techniques.
A fuller analysis of the Directors system of internal control and its monitoring system, is set out in the Corporate The business has continued to grow and expand into new Governance Statement.
The principal risks are considered markets with five new funds raised during the year and a 33% to be as follows: increase in funds and commitments under management to 4.4 billion.
General risks associated with investment in private equity Total external fee income increased from 20.3 million to 29.7 million, including recurring external fees of Investment in private equity involves a high degree of risk.
22.1 million, compared to 13.4 million in 2006.
Including The Group invests in private equity through its exposure fees paid by SVG Capital to SVG Advisers total fees earned by to buy-out and development capital funds.
Such investments the operating subsidiaries and other income were 37.1 million, are illiquid and might be difficult to realise, particularly contributing 17.6 million to the Groups profit before tax within a short timeframe.
The Directors seek to maintain in 2007. a diversied portfolio of investments to mitigate these risks, although the portfolio does remain concentrated with respect The business now employs almost 70 people managing to private equity fund managers as explained below.
seven diversified private equity funds of funds, five single manager funds all investing in Permira Funds and five funds investing in public equities using private equity techniques.
Valuation risk In addition to these the business also benefits from fee income The Groups exposure to valuation risk comprises mainly from two Collateralised Loan Obligation equity funds of funds movements in the value of its underlying investments.
raised in conjunction with Key Capital.
A breakdown of the Groups portfolio of private equity funds is given on pages 26 to 27 and a detailed analysis of the 20 largest underlying companies is given on pages 18 to 21.
Contractual arrangements All underlying investments are valued at fair value by the Directors in accordance with the current International Private As was fully reported to in a Circular to shareholders dated Equity and Venture Capital IPEVC Guidelines.
The IPEVC 24 March 2005, SVG Capital entered into arrangements with Guidelines contain detailed methodology setting out best Permira which allowed it full access to Permira IV and to its practice with respect to valuing unquoted investments.
successor, Permira V. Concurrent with the arrangements, Valuation risks are mitigated by comprehensive reviews of Permira subscribed for 6 million shares in the Company.
underlying investments in the private equity funds carried out It was and remains the Board's view that these arrangements by the managers of the private equity funds twice each year.
strengthened the Company's long-standing relationship with These valuations are then considered by the Audit Permira.
A copy of the Circular to shareholders is available on Committee and the Board with advice and assistance from the Companys website: www.
SVG Advisers, the managers of the private equity funds and other advisers as appropriate.
The Groups Auditor also reviews the valuations as part of their audit and agrees any changes with the Audit Committee and the Board.
Future commitment funding risk At 31 December 2007, the Group had significant uncalled commitments of 1,559.7 million 2006: 1,828.4 million, compared to Shareholders funds of 1,299.7 million 2006: 1,154.0 million.
The Group has in place ab750.0 million five year multicurrency borrowing facility and has in addition 19 issued 258.1 million of unsecured Private Placement Notes.
19 Including 40 million of Notes issued in January 2008 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 23 23 The Board considers cash-ow forecasts at each Board The Directors have chosen this strategy on the basis of the meeting and expects to meet a substantial portion of its very long positive record of Permira and the geographical uncalled commitments, as well as commitments to future and industry diversication which the Permira Funds provide.
funds, from distributions received from its investments and However, the greater concentration of the investment from borrowings available to the Group.
At the present time, portfolio also presents a risk.
Each fund investment an amount ofb123.7 million is utilised by way of guarantees proposition is considered by the Investment Committee of the Companys commitments to the SVG Diamond and the Board in accordance with a structured investment programme.
Any reduction in the net asset value attributable process.
This includes presentations from the manager to shareholders and the share price will be amplied by of the proposed fund, extensive due diligence, consideration balance sheet gearing.
The Directors keep the Groups gearing of the terms and conditions for investment in the fund, under review and impose restrictions on borrowings consideration of the Groups own cash-ows and future to mitigate this risk.
commitments and a review of the effect of any such investment on portfolio concentration.
Investment holdings period Currency risk Investment in private equity requires a long-term commitment with no certainty of return.
Many of the investments made The Group is exposed to currency risk directly since the by the Group are illiquid holdings in buy-out and majority of its assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign development capital funds and, in some cases, may not be currency and their sterling value can be signicantly affected capable of being realised in a timely manner or at all.
The by movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Group does timing of cash distributions, if any, made by the buy-out and not normally hedge against foreign currency movements development capital funds is uncertain and unpredictable.
affecting the value of its investments.
However, currency Investments in buy-out and development capital funds may risk is monitored on a regular basis by the Board and cash be difficult to value and dispositions may require a lengthy balances are held in accordance with an agreed policy to time period since there is only a limited market for secondary match, as far as possible, anticipated future commitments.
sales of private equity investments.
Further, sales or other The Companys bank lines are multi-currency.
transfers of interests in buy-out and development capital funds usually require the written consent of the general Regulatory risks partner of the fund, the granting of which is at its discretion.
The regulatory environment in which the Group operates Accordingly, the Group may not be able to sell its investments is increasingly complex and the Group faces a number in buy-out and development capital funds at their net asset of regulatory risks.
Breaches of regulations such as the value or even at discounted prices below the net asset value.
UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules could lead to a number However, the Directors believe that the investment process of detrimental outcomes and damage the Groups reputation.
employed when initially selecting investments helps to ensure Breaches of controls by service providers could also lead to that the Groups investments would normally be attractive reputational damage or loss.
Key regulatory risks have been to buyers in the secondary market.
identied and appropriate monitoring of such risks is undertaken regularly on behalf of the Board.
Three of Concentration risk the Companys subsidiaries: SVG Advisers Limited, SVG Investment Managers Limited and SVG Managers Limited The Company has direct investments in 17 private equity are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
funds providing it with a portfolio of 129 companies that are diversied by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector.
The majority of the Companys investments are Taxation risks managed or advised by Permira, and the future performance of Any change in the taxation legislation or practice could the Group will therefore be largely dependent on the future affect the value of the Groups investments and as a result, performance of the Permira Funds in which it invests.
A breach of section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result in the Group being subject to corporation tax on realised gains on the sale of portfolio investments.
However, the Group has strict controls in place to ensure that it complies with the requirements of section 842 and contracts with specialist tax advisers to provide advice on changes to tax regulation and practice.
Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 24 Major acquisitions Valentino Fashion Group Hugo Boss operates in over 100 countries, with more than 1,500 single-brand boutiques and 345 directly-managed shops.
The groups activities are broken down into three business units, covering the entire luxury and fashion sector: Valentino, featuring the prestigious brands Valentino, Valentino Garavani, Valentino Roma and R. E. D. Valentino: Hugo Boss, which includes the Boss and Hugo brands: and licensed brands including M Missoni, in addition to its own brand Lebole.
1 Media is the second largest pan-European broadcasting corporation.
1 Groups core business is Free-TV and through its four interrelated stations Sat.
1, ProSieben, kabel eins and N24, it owns Germanys largest family of commercial TV channels.
1 25.4m Galaxy Entertainment is a leading operator of casinos, hotels and entertainment facilities in Macau, China.
The company has already captured a significant share of the fastest growing gaming market in just four years and operates a number of casinos in Macau, including its flagship StarWorld.
108.4m Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Major realisations 25 Takko Funds advised by Permira originally invested in Takko, the German-based fashion discounter, in March 2000.
Since then, the company has under gone a series of strategic and operational changes and has grown substantially and now has 1,050 outlets in 10 countries.
In June 2007, Takko was sold in a transaction that valued SVG Capitals share of the business at 41.4 million.
29.8m Intelsat The realisation of Intelsat was announced in June 2007 and completed in February 2008.
Intelsat is the leading provider of fixed satellite services worldwide, delivering advanced transmission access for information and entertainment to some of the worlds leading media and network companies, multinational corporations, internet service providers and governmental agencies.
The realisation valued SVG Capitals holding at 81.2 million.
1 Media acquired SBS Broadcasting Group in July 2007, creating a pan-European broadcasting group, and valuing SVG Capitals holding in SBS at 68.7 million.
