Business Review Governance Financial Statements 17 Principal Risks and Uncertainties As discussed in the Corporate Governance section on pages 22 to 24 of this report, the Group has a dedicated Risk and Internal Audit function, reporting to the Board, that continuously assesses and monitors the key risks to the business.
The table below summarises the more material risks to the Group, and how we seek to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
RISK AREA POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Loss of market share and We have always focused on reinvesting the benets of our increasing Competitive erosion in margins from scale into our customer proposition to keep barriers to entry high and environment increased competition.
to maximise value for our customers.
Our pricing in both mobile retail and broadband reects this strategy.
Reduction in customer loyalty We are investing signicantly in improving current service levels at Brand and higher churn in our xed line TalkTalk.
This year we will introduce a new billing and customer perception operations as a result of poor management platform that will enhance our ability to provide high customer service.
quality service to our customers.
Failure to provide adequate Our investment in IT continues to grow in line with the increasing scale Capacity and service levels to customers or to and complexity of our business.
Telecoms investment will peak in the functionality manage back ofce processes.
coming year, with further investment in later years addressing the of our IT and increased bandwidth demands of customers.
telecoms infrastructure Lack of necessary expertise or We have successfully attracted and retained high quality executive Retention continuity to execute strategy.
management through attractive incentive packages and wide-ranging of key career opportunities.
management RISK AREA POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION profits and cash ow We have dedicated credit control functions to manage both residential Revenue reduced through high levels and corporate debt, and credit checking processes that are continuously assurance of non-paying customers.
developed to minimise the risk of non-payment.
Our network operator debtors are highly cash generative, well capitalised businesses.
Financial results impacted by We have a very high turnover of stock and the subsidised business Stock obsolete retail stock.
management Reported profits distorted by Exchange rate exposures are primarily to the Euro and Swiss Franc, Exchange exchange rate movements: which are historically stable currencies.
Exposures to exchange rate rates value of assets and liabilities movements are continuously monitored and hedging of specic similarly affected.
transactions is undertaken where the risks are considered material.
Fixed line business model We share the goals of the telecoms and insurance regulators of Telecoms compromised by changes competitive markets in which the customer has transparency and regulation to regulated market structure choice.
We have a team of regulatory specialists who work with the and pricing.
relevant authorities towards these goals.
Capital invested in new business New business ventures and acquisition activity generally have a Investment in areas fails to make a return.
required hurdle rate of 15% post-tax internal rate of return.
New new areas ventures are managed in stages so that capital commitment is not significant until there is good visibility of a return.
com Financial risks Operational risks
