Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Principal Risks and Managing our risks Uncertainties The identification and assessment of risks, together with the implementation of effective mitigating controls, are fundamental to achieving our strategic objectives.
Centrica, like all businesses, faces risks and uncertainties as While this hedging strategy has mitigated increases in commodity we conduct our operations and there are a number of risks that prices for a period, we had to increase retail energy prices in could impact the Groups short and long-term performance.
A continuing volatile commodity price environment, particularly with regard to gas costs, may lead to further retail price We place great importance on internal control and risk management.
The combination of variable commodity costs and A risk-aware and control-conscious environment is promoted and the extent to which these costs are passed through to consumers, encouraged throughout the Group.
We take steps to understand and will mean that margins will remain volatile, thereby affecting Group evaluate risks to support the creation of long-term sustainable returns earnings.
Furthermore, the unpredictability of commodity prices, for shareholders.
We have a robust risk management process in including carbon particularly with the uncertainty of the future place, which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business trading regime, hampers the calculation of reliable forecasts risk.
This process is described in more detail in the Corporate to support investment decisions potentially leading to lower Governance Report on page 36. than expected returns.
The factors described below highlight the principal risks and Consumption uncertainties that affect the Group but are not intended to be an Gas sales volumes, and to a lesser extent electricity sales volumes, exhaustive analysis of all the risks which may arise in the ordinary are affected by temperature and other weather factors.
Customers course of business or otherwise.
Some risks may be unknown demand behaviour will also be influenced by the national economic to the Group and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, climate, gas and electricity prices and an increasing awareness could turn out to be material.
of the environmental impact of energy use.
The development and application of new technologies, either from the use of domestic energy generating units such as micro-combined heat and power External market factors units, and or greater use of demand-side management technology such as smart metering, could also affect demand in the medium term and therefore the Groups earnings.
We monitor consumption Commodity prices trends and have developed a portfolio of low-carbon products and Our energy requirements to serve our gas and electricity customers services for our customers.
are dependent on the wholesale commodity markets for gas, oil, coal, carbon and power prices, all of which have been volatile In addition, we use historical consumption patterns to estimate in recent years.
The outlook for 2008 continues to be difficult to customer usage and therefore the value of the future benefits predict due in part to the uncertain economic environment and the that will flow to us.
Any change in those benefits would change impact of geopolitical events.
The price of gas in the UK market is the value of the revenue recognised.
For further details see note 3 particularly important for us given the high proportion of the retail to Financial Statements on page 67. gas market we serve and our fleet of gas-fired power stations.
Level of competitive activity To manage this risk, we optimise our asset and contract portfolio The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and subject through an approach based on extensive analysis of our supply to customer churn rates that are sensitive to price changes and and demand position and continuous assessment of the commodity levels of customer service.
markets in which we operate see note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 69.
Our policy is to hedge a proportion of the exposure To ensure we retain our competitive position, we need to combine for a number of years ahead linked to the underlying profiles of attractive products and propositions with high quality customer our customers energy requirements through bilateral agreements service, maintain an efficient cost structure and, for energy supply, for gas and power and the use of financial instruments such as procure energy competitively.
Accordingly, we actively monitor oil and gas swaps.
customer trends and competitor activity to respond to changing circumstances by developing retention campaigns and innovative 25 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued customer offerings.
In addition, we retain a strong focus on reducing Further information on our approach to climate change is available operating costs, as failure to sustain competitive cost levels will in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 30. challenge our ability to deliver sustainable operating margins.
Information systems Regulatory factors Large, effective and secure information systems are critical for The energy markets in the UK, North America and Europe are the efficient management and accurate billing of our customers subject to comprehensive operating requirements as defined by and to support our energy trading and optimisation activities.
the relevant sector regulators and or government departments.
Any significant disruption to these systems could adversely affect Amendments to the regulatory regime could have an impact on our our operations and so there are business continuity plans in place.
ability to achieve our financial goals.
Furthermore, we are obliged To improve efficiency, we continue to invest in our systems supported to comply with supply and wholesale industry procedures, by strong project management to minimise the associated amendments to which could have an impact on our operating implementation risk.
In addition, controls to ensure the confidentiality, costs.
We are also subject to regulated charges for transportation availability and integrity of customer and Company data remain a and distribution of energy.
Material increases in these charges core element of system development and continuous improvement.
will impact our margins, to the extent that any such increases cannot be passed on to our customers.
Security of supply As UK gas reserves have declined, the UK energy market has become increasingly reliant on pipelines from Norway and mainland The UK Energy Bill has had little adverse impact on the Group.
Europe together with liquefied natural gas supplies from other We continue to monitor drafting amendments and revisions during parts of the world.
Accordingly, a key element of security of supply the passage of the Bill which could introduce new requirements is access to these reserves and the reliability of the pipeline and in relation to smart meters with the potential for additional costs gas processing infrastructure operated by Centrica and third parties if existing meters become obsolete and supplier social tariffs.
Any break in this supply chain could jeopardise the supply to customers and impact our earnings.
In Europe, while the European Commission remains supportive of network unbundling, meaningful progress on European market To respond to this changing environment, we have supported new deregulation continues to be limited.
The need for effective infrastructure development to bring gas to the UK, such as the competition is emphasised by the current level of consolidation activity in Europe, which could not only have an impact on our Langeled pipeline.
In addition, we continue to acquire assets, such participation in European energy markets but also the ability to as Newfield UK Holdings Limited, and sign long-term supply contracts source and transport gas across Europe to the UK.
to replace declining gas reserves.
We will continue to seek opportunities to secure and develop gas and power assets in the In North America the risk of political or regulatory intervention in UK and overseas, and continually review our security arrangements energy markets remains an uncertainty and could have an impact to protect those assets.
on the projected growth of our operations.
While the 2007 session of the Texas legislature concluded without any material changes Health and safety to the electricity market or competition rules, this issue remains in We manage significant health and safety risks associated with the the political spotlight and could be reviewed during the next operation of our onshore and offshore gas production, gas storage legislative session which begins in early 2009.
Specific reviews and power generation assets.
In addition, our service engineers regarding electricity deregulation are ongoing in a limited number in the UK and North America complete more than 8 million home of jurisdictions but energy policy, particularly electricity, remains visits each year to carry out essential work on gas and electrical a highly politicised topic throughout North America.
installations, appliance maintenance and plumbing and drain services.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of health In order to mitigate these risks, we continue to monitor political and and safety and our risk management and governance processes regulatory developments and engage with the relevant stakeholders meet internationally recognised standards of good practice.
through targeted contact programmes with regulators, government Significant health and safety events could have an adverse impact ministers and senior officials.
on personal safety, gas and or power production or our reputation.
Although the likelihood of such events is low, we continue to target risk reduction in our operations to minimise the possibility Operational factors of incidents occurring.
Further information on our approach is available in the Corporate Climate change Responsibility Review on page 31.
With the increasing recognition of the impact of climate change on our environment, we believe we can make an important contribution UK customer service to support a low-carbon economy.
Our climate change strategy The delivery of good quality customer service is central to our recognises both the risks and opportunities that will shape our future business strategy.
The implementation of a new billing system for operations and ultimately the longer-term success of our business.
our UK residential energy customers led to levels of customer service Our strategy is designed to address the risks this may present, that were lower than we aspire to.
Through continued focus in this such as new legislation, changing customer behaviour including area during 2007 we are now seeing improved levels of customer growing demand for low-carbon products and services, and the reputational risks of not taking a leadership position.
26 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 service and reduced customer complaints.
We carefully monitor Other material foreign currency cash flow exposures are hedged these service levels and performance throughout our retail where there is sufficient certainty that the cash flows will occur.
operations, to ensure continual improvement.
Where there is significant uncertainty over the potential timing of material currency exposures the senior treasury and finance Outsourcing and offshoring management decide on the appropriate hedging activity required on a case-by-case basis.
We have entered into a number of outsourcing contracts, some of which are offshore, in respect of certain support functions for our businesses in the UK and North America.
As with any contractual Interest rate relationship, there are inherent risks to be considered and mitigated.
Our policy is to manage interest rate risk on long-term borrowings while ensuring that the exposure to fixed rates remains within a 30% to 70% range.
This is achieved by using derivative financial We have worked closely with our chosen suppliers to ensure instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to adjust the interest the delivery of benefits with strong focus by management in the basis of the portfolio of long-term debt.
retained organisation playing an important part in the successful transition and implementation.
The Centrica Executive Committee Counterparty regularly reviews progress and, in addition, a centre of expertise Our policy is to limit counterparty exposures by setting credit limits has been developed to capture and share best practice.
for each counterparty, where possible by reference to published credit ratings.
Exposures are measured in relation to the nature, Brand and reputation market value and maturity of each contract or financial instrument.
Our business principles, which apply to all employees and business Surplus cash is invested in short-term financial instruments and partners, set out our commitment to operate professionally, fairly only deposited with counterparties with minimum long-term and and with integrity wherever we work in the world.
Failure to follow short-term credit ratings of A3 AA-or P1 A1 F1 from any of Moodys, these principles could harm our reputation, damage our brand S&P or Fitch Ratings.
Energy trading activities are undertaken with and affect our operational performance and financial position.
counterparties for whom specific credit limits are set.
Exposures A combination of awareness training and targeted controls are reviewed by the Financial Risk Management Committee.
including fraud and data protection is in place to encourage and monitor adherence to these principles.
Credit rating As part of the demerger in 1997, Centrica was assigned ownership The current strong credit rating of the Group long-term debt: of the British Gas trademark and related logos for use in the UK.
BG A3 stable outlook Moodys, A negative outlook S&P : short-term Group plc has the right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual debt: P-2 stable outlook Moodys, A-1 negative outlook S&P, property if control of Centrica is acquired by a third party.
If, as a means that it benefits from high levels of credit for its existing result of a change of control, we are unable to continue to use the counterparty relationships.
Any material deterioration of this rating British Gas trademark and logos, this could adversely affect our would mean that we would need to increase our levels of security for competitive position.
existing energy procurement and hedging contracts, which may have a material effect on our cash position or limit our ability to trade in commodity markets.
As described above, sufficient liquidity Financial factors headroom is maintained to limit the immediate financial impact of a reduction in the credit rating.
Further details on these financial risks can be found in notes 4 and 5 to the Financial Statements Liquidity on pages 69 and 74.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements for the Group are produced frequently.
These are stress-tested for different Pensions scenarios and are reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that We maintain a variety of pension schemes including defined benefit sufficient headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
The pension fund liabilities are partially matched with a failure to maintain sufficient headroom could have an impact on our portfolio of assets, which leaves potential risk around the mortality operations.
Our policy is to maintain a minimum level of committed rate, wage inflation and returns on assets.
The scheme contains facilities and ensure that a proportion of debt should be long-term a high proportion of equity assets that are expected to provide and spread over a range of maturities.
a better return in the long term than alternative investments such as bonds.
However, in the short term, the difference between the value Currency of liabilities and assets may vary significantly, potentially resulting in Through wholly-owned US and Canadian subsidiaries and a large deficit having to be recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
wholly-owned and partly-owned European entities, the Group has operational exposure in US and Canadian dollars and euros.
In addition, actions by the pension regulators or the trustees Our policy is to maintain the sterling book value of our foreign and or any material revisions to the existing pension legislation currency investment through balance sheet hedging instruments.
could require increased contributions by the Group to the pension US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro balance sheet translation fund.
The risks associated with the pension schemes are regularly exposure is hedged by maintaining foreign currency borrowings reviewed and, in combination with expert external advice, any and or derivative financial liabilities which approximate to the appropriate action is identified and acted upon accordingly.
For net asset value of the foreign operations.
further details see note 34 to the Financial Statement on page 126.
