ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 193 RISK As a research-based pharmaceutical company Products under patent protection or having young products.
In the case of litigation both doing business globally, we are subject to a marketing exclusivity usually generate by generic manufacturers and other researchvariety of risks.
Set out below is a summary of significantly higher revenues than those not based companies, we expect that the the principal risks that may affect our business.
protected by patents or marketing exclusivity.
greatest challenges will be focused on the They are grouped under the headings Industry For example, we anticipate the expiry of most valuable products.
Economic Environment Risks: Legal Regulatory certain patents and or marketing exclusivity Risks: Business Execution Risks: and relating to Arimidex in a number of major Parts of our technology, techniques and Reputation.
Any of these risks together with markets within the next few years.
Arimidex, proprietary compounds and potential new other risks and uncertainties discussed for the treatment of breast cancer, had global drugs, including those that are in-licensed, throughout this report or which are not sales of $1,730m in 2007. may be found to infringe patents owned by presently known to us or currently considered or granted to others.
This risk may increase as material could have a significant effect on Risk of patent litigation and our focus on biologics and vaccines increases, our financial condition, results of operations early loss of patents, marketing because intellectual property issues related to and or reputation.
These risks have not been exclusivity or trademarks biological medicines can be extremely complex.
listed in any assumed order of priority and We believe that we have robust patent If we cannot resolve any intellectual property should be read in conjunction with the protection for our products.
However, over disputes, we may be liable for damages, cautionary statements regarding forwardthe last few years there has been a marked be required to obtain costly licences or be looking statements set out on the inside front increase in intellectual property litigation in stopped from manufacturing, using or selling cover of this report and below.
The Managing the pharmaceutical industry.
During the course of our activities, Risk section on page 47 contains general manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical we may become aware of broad patents information about how we manage risks and products, whether based in developing owned by others relating to some of our summary information about our approach to countries, such as those in Asia, or elsewhere intellectual property, and in some instances managing certain specific risks.
in the world, seek to challenge our patents we may receive notices from the owners of or other types of marketing exclusivity and or patents claiming that their patents may be RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FORWARD-LOOKING assert that their products do not infringe our infringed by the development, manufacture STATEMENTS patents in order to gain access to the market or sale of some of our products and potential This report contains certain forward-looking for their own generic products.
In response, we may obtain statements about AstraZeneca.
Although we manufacturers are seeking to market generic licences, determine that our products do not believe our expectations are based on versions of many of our more important infringe the patents or that the patents are not reasonable assumptions, any forward-looking products, prior to the expiration of our patents valid, or we may make various modifications statements may be influenced by factors that and marketing exclusivity periods.
For example, that we believe should not infringe the patents could cause actual outcomes and results to we are currently facing challenges from multiple and that should permit commercialisation of be materially different from those predicted.
generic manufacturers to certain of our our products.
Defending such claims can be Forward-looking statements are identified in patents for Nexium, Seroquel and Crestor, costly, even if we are successful.
this report by using the words anticipates, some of our best-selling products in the US, believes, expects, intends and similar our largest market.
If such challenges are We vigorously defend our intellectual property expressions.
These forward-looking statements successful and result in the launch of generic rights, including taking appropriate infringement are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.
products, or if otherwise generic products action in various courts throughout the world.
Important factors that could cause actual are launched at risk on the expectation that However, there can be no assurance that any results to differ materially from those in challenges will be successful, this may have of our currently patented products will not be forward-looking statements, certain of which a materially adverse effect on our financial the subject of intellectual property litigation are beyond our control, include, among other condition and results of operations.
US sales or other disputes involving patent offices, things, the risks detailed below: for Nexium in 2007 were $3,383m, for anti-trust authorities or other government or Seroquel were $2,863m and for Crestor were law enforcement agencies in the future, despite INDUSTRY ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT RISKS $1,424m.
As a result of challenges by generic our efforts to establish and defend the most Risk of expiration of patents or marketing manufacturers, certain of our US patents robust patent protection.
We may not prevail exclusivity covering Toprol-XL were held to be invalid in a patent infringement action: be able to Scientific development and technological during 2007 and generic versions of the obtain a licence to any third party patent on innovation are crucial if we are to deliver product are now being sold in the US.
Sales commercially reasonable terms: successfully long-term market success.
Patent protection of Toprol-XL in the US, which were $1,382m develop non-infringing alternatives on a and other types of marketing exclusivity are in 2006, were down 30% in 2007 to $969m.
timely basis: or be able to license alternative important ways in which we create value from The more significant patent litigation relating non-infringing technology, if any exists, on such development and innovation, but all to our products is described in Note 27 to commercially reasonable terms: and patent patents and marketing exclusivity will eventually the Financial Statements.
protection may not be available at all.
In the pharmaceutical market, a drug not successful during the patent protection or or diagnostic or medical device is normally only In addition to generic manufacturers, the data exclusivity periods in maintaining exclusive protected from competition from alternative research-based pharmaceutical industry has rights to market one or more of our major products, for the same use, during the period become more aggressive in recent years in products, particularly in the US where we of patent protection or marketing exclusivity.
using intellectual property rights offensively as have our highest revenue and margins, our Once patent protection or marketing exclusivity an additional basis for commercial competition revenue and margins would be significantly has expired, the product is generally open between patented products.
This has included adversely affected.
to competition from generic copy products.
the use of patent litigation directed at relatively ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 194 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 RISK CONTINUED In addition to challenges to our patented patent protection will be broad enough to Debt-funding arrangements products from manufacturers of generic or protect our intellectual property to the extent We incurred substantial debt in connection other patented pharmaceutical products, to which we may receive protection under with the acquisition of MedImmune, Inc.. there is a risk that some countries, particularly other, more developed regimes.
Limitations Our debt could affect our business flexibility those in the developing world, may seek to on the availability of patent protection in certain and requires us to devote cash resources to impose limitations on the availability of patent developing countries could have an adverse service interest and principal payments.
protection for pharmaceutical products, or effect on pricing and sales in respect of those Our current debt level could limit our ability on the extent to which such protection may products and, consequently, could adversely to engage in additional transactions or incur be obtained, within their jurisdictions.
As a affect our revenues from those products in additional indebtedness and could potentially result, generic manufacturers in these countries those countries, compared to countries affect our investment grade credit rating.
may be increasingly and more easily able to where patent protection is available.
introduce competing products to the market The risks of owning and operating earlier than they would have been able to, Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates a biologics and vaccines business had the patent protection been available.
As a global business, currency fluctuations The acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. in 2007, can significantly affect our results of operations, combined with the earlier acquisition of Trade mark protection for our products is also which are accounted for in US dollars.
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc an important element of our overall product Approximately 49% of our 2007 sales were in 2006, accelerated our strategic aim of marketing programmes.
Combined with patent in North America comprised of the US and building a major presence in biologics and protection and other types of marketing Canada with a significant proportion of that significantly increased the importance of exclusivity, products protected by a valid trade figure being in respect of US sales.
The US is, biologics within the Group.
As a result, mark usually generate higher revenues than and is expected to remain, our largest market.
the risks related to owning and operating those not protected by a trade mark.
We believe Sales in certain other countries are also in a biologics and vaccines business are that we have robust trade mark protection for US dollars, or in currencies whose exchange becoming more important to the Group.
However, trade mark protection rates are linked to the US dollar.
Major Some of the more significant of these risks may be challenged by third parties.
components of our cost base are, however, are described below: located in Europe, where an aggregate of Risk of expiration or earlier loss of approximately 55% of our employees are We may have limited access to and or patents covering competing products based.
Movements in the exchange rates supply of biological materials, such as The expiration or earlier loss of patents used to translate foreign currencies into US cells or animal products or by-products.
belonging to other pharmaceutical dollars may therefore have a materially adverse In addition, government regulations in manufacturers that cover branded products, effect on our financial condition and results multiple jurisdictions, such as the US and which either compete directly against one of of operations.
countries within the EU, could result in our products or compete in the same therapy restricted access to, or transport or use area or product class as one of our products, Certain of our subsidiaries import and export of, such materials.
If we lose access to could have a materially adverse effect on our goods and services in currencies other than sufficient sources of such materials, or if financial condition and results of operations, their own working currency.
The results of such tighter restrictions are imposed on the use by allowing competing generic products to subsidiaries could, therefore, be affected by of such materials, we may not be able to enter the market.
currency fluctuations arising between the conduct research activities as planned and transaction dates and the settlement dates for may incur additional development costs.
Failure to obtain patent protection those transactions.
We hedge these exposures It is our policy to apply for intellectual property through financial instruments.
The fair value The development, manufacturing and protection for all inventions and innovations of financial instruments used to hedge these marketing of biological products are subject created as a result of the investments in R&D exposures, principally forward foreign exchange to regulation by the US Food and Drug throughout the Group.
Obtaining adequate contracts and purchased currency options, Administration, the European Medicines protection for the intellectual property at 31 December 2007 was $30m.
We have Agency and other regulatory bodies.
These associated with our significant investment in policies that seek to mitigate the effect of regulations are often more complex and R&D activities continues to be a key business exchange rate fluctuations on the value of extensive than those applicable to other imperative.
The range of protection includes foreign currency cash flows and in turn pharmaceutical products.
As a result, the patents, trade marks, design registrations, their effects on the results of the various regulatory review and oversight process may copyright and domain name registrations.
It is subsidiaries, but we do not seek to remove affect production and release schedules therefore important to our success that we are all such risks.
Further information is contained for biological products to a greater extent able to obtain and enforce patents and other on page 85 Financial Review.
In general, than for other products.
In addition, various proprietary rights in relation to our products.
a unilateral strengthening of the US dollar legislative and regulatory authorities are adversely affects our reported results whereas considering whether an abbreviated approval We operate in a number of different countries a weakening of the US dollar is generally process is appropriate for biosimilars or in many of which the patent laws in the favourable.
Exchange rate fluctuations may follow-on biological products similar versions pharmaceutical field are continually evolving.
have a materially adverse effect on our of existing biological products.
It is uncertain As a result, we cannot be sure that, under financial condition and results of operations as to when, or if, any such process may the applicable legal regimes, new inventions in the future.
be adopted or how such a process would will be patentable, that patents for which relate to intellectual property rights in applications are now pending will be issued connection with marketed or pipeline or reissued to us or that the scope of any biological products, but any such process ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 195 RISK CONTINUED could have a material effect on the future cost of pharmaceutical products.
Certain market has recently experienced efforts to commercial prospects for patented groups have been involved in exerting price introduce legislation such as the Pharmaceutical biological products.
pressure on pharmaceutical companies with Market Access and Drug Safety Act of 2007, the aim of making medicines more affordable which would allow the commercial importation Manufacturing biological products, to those who need them.
A summary of the of drugs into the US from selected countries especially in large quantities, is often principal aspects of price regulation in our including some member states of the EU, complex and may require the use of most important markets, such as the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and innovative technologies to handle living the EU and Japan, is set out in the Sales Switzerland, by certain individual consumers, micro-organisms.
Manufacturing biological and Marketing section on page 31. pharmacies and drug wholesalers.
There may products requires facilities specifically The Geographical Review section on page be further pressure for the adoption of such designed and validated for this purpose, 69 also contains references to how price legislation, particularly given the forthcoming and sophisticated quality assurance and pressures are affecting our business.
The effects of any quality control procedures are necessary.
increase in the volume of this cross-border Slight deviations anywhere in the In the US, as well as regulatory price pressure, movement of products could result in a manufacturing process may result in lot realised prices are being depressed by materially adverse effect on our financial failure, product recalls or spoilage due to pressure from managed care organisations condition and results of operations.
and institutional purchasers, who use cost considerations to restrict the sale of preferred We expect that pressures on pricing will The methods of distributing and marketing drugs that their physicians may prescribe, as continue and may increase.
Because of biological products could have a material well as other competitive activity.
Such limited these pressures, there can be no certainty impact on the revenue we are able to lists or formularies may force manufacturers that we will be able to charge prices for a generate from the sales of products such either to reduce prices or be excluded from the product that, in a particular country or in the as Synagis and FluMist.
list, thereby losing all the sales revenue from aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate patients covered by that formulary.
In addition, return on our investment in that product.
Competition, price controls private health insurance companies and and price reductions employers that self-insure have been raising Taxation The principal markets for our pharmaceutical co-payments required from beneficiaries, The integrated nature of our worldwide products are the Americas, the countries of particularly for branded pharmaceuticals and operations can produce conflicting claims from the EU, Asia Pacific, India, China and Japan.
biotechnology products, among other reasons, revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed These markets are highly competitive.
to encourage beneficiaries to use generic in individual territories.
The resolution of these We compete in all of them, and elsewhere products.
The increased use of strict formularies disputes can result in a reallocation of profits in the world, against major prescription by institutional customers in response to the between jurisdictions and an increase or pharmaceutical companies which, in many current cost-containment environment and decrease in related tax costs, and has the cases, are able to match or exceed the increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies potential to affect our cash flows and earnings resources that we have available to us, could result in a materially adverse effect on per share.
particularly in the areas of R&D and marketing our financial condition and results of operations.
Some of our most important The majority of the jurisdictions in which we products, such as Crestor, Seroquel and In the EU, efforts by the European Commission operate have double tax treaties with other Symbicort, compete directly with similar to reduce inconsistencies and improve foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to ensure products marketed by some of these standards and best practice in the disparate that our revenues and capital gains do not companies.
Industry consolidation has national regulatory systems have met with little incur a double tax charge.
If any of these resulted in the formation of a small number immediate success.
The industry is, therefore, double tax treaties should be withdrawn of very large companies and continued exposed to ad hoc national cost-containment or amended, especially in a territory where consolidation could adversely affect our measures on prices and the consequent a member of the Group is involved in a taxation competitive position, whilst continued cross-border movement of products from dispute with a tax authority in relation to consolidation among our customers may markets with prices depressed by governments cross-border transactions, such withdrawal increase price pressures.
Increasingly, we also into those where higher prices prevail.
or amendment could have a materially adverse compete directly with biotechnology companies effect on our financial condition and results of and companies that manufacture generic The importation of pharmaceutical products operations.
Similarly, a negative outcome of a versions of our products following the expiry or from countries where prices are low due to tax dispute or failure of tax authorities to agree loss of patent protection or other marketing government price controls or other market through competent authority proceedings exclusivity, which typically leads to a dramatic dynamics, to countries where prices for those could also have a materially adverse effect on loss of sales and reduces our revenues and products are higher, may increase.
The our financial condition and results of operations.
Some of our patented products, accession of additional countries from Central including Nexium, Crestor, Seroquel and and Eastern Europe to the EU may result in Risk of substantial product liability claims Symbicort are subject to price pressure from significant increases in the parallel trading Given the widespread impact that prescription competition from generic products in the of pharmaceutical products.
Movements drugs may have on the health of large patient same product class.
of pharmaceutical products into the US, populations, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical in particular from Canada into the US, may and medical device companies have, historically, In most of the principal markets in which we increase despite the need to meet current been subject to large product liability damages sell our products, there is continued economic, or future safety requirements imposed by claims, settlements and awards for injuries regulatory and political pressure to limit the regulatory authorities.
For example, the US allegedly caused by the use of their products.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 196 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 RISK CONTINUED Product liability claims, regardless of their Environmental occupational health Product counterfeiting merits or their outcome, are costly, divert and safety liabilities Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients management attention, and may adversely We have environmental liabilities at some all over the world, as they may contain harmful affect our reputation and demand for our currently or formerly owned, leased and third substances, the wrong dose of the active products.
Adverse publicity relating to the party sites, as described in more detail in pharmaceutical ingredient API or no API at all.
safety of a product or of other competing Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
These The International Medical Products Antiproducts may increase the risk of product liabilities are carefully managed by designated Counterfeiting Taskforce IMPACT of the liability claims.
Litigation, particularly in the technical, legal and business personnel and World Health Organization WHO estimates US, is inherently unpredictable and verdicts there is no reason for us to believe that that approximately 10 to 30% of medicines and or unexpectedly high awards of damages associated current and expected expenditure in emerging economies are counterfeit, with can result.
Substantial product liability claims and or risks are likely to have a materially parts of Latin America, Asia and Africa that result in court decisions against us or adverse effect on our financial condition and having a greater percentage than that range.
in the settlement of proceedings could have results of operations as a general matter, By contrast, in developed countries with a materially adverse effect on our financial although they could, to the extent that they effective regulatory systems, counterfeits condition and results of operations, particularly exceed applicable provisions, have a materially represent less than 1% of the market.
where such circumstances are not covered by adverse effect on our financial condition and insurance.
We are currently subject to product results of operations for the relevant period.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern about liability litigation in relation to Seroquel, and In addition, a change in circumstances the issue might induce some patients to stop further details about this and all material legal including a change in applicable laws or taking their medicines, with consequential risks proceedings in which we are involved are set regulations may result in such an effect.
Also, public loss of confidence out in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as Information about our approach to patient Nonetheless, a significant non-compliance or a result of counterfeiting could adversely affect safety is set out in the Medicines section on incident for which we were responsible could our reputation and financial performance.
page 21. result in us being liable to pay compensation, fines or remediation costs.
In some We use a range of measures against counterfeit Performance of new products circumstances, such liability could have medicines, and continue to develop such Although we carry out numerous and a materially adverse effect on our financial measures, including through the following: extensive clinical trials on all our products condition, reputation and results of operations.
before they are launched, for a new product In addition, our financial provisions for any We are introducing technologies that make it can be difficult, for a period following its obligations that we may have relating to it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy launch, to establish from available data a environmental liabilities may be insufficient if our products.
complete assessment of its eventual efficacy the assumptions underlying the provisions and or safety in broader clinical use on the including our assumptions regarding the We conduct market surveillance and market.
Due to the relatively short time that portion of waste at a site for which we are monitor the supply chain to identify a product has been tested and the relatively responsible prove incorrect, or if we are potential counterfeiting operations.
small number of patients who have taken the held responsible for additional contamination.
product, the available data may be immature.
We respond rapidly to any reports of Simple extrapolation of the data may not Developing our business counterfeit AstraZeneca medicines, be accurate and could lead to a misleading in emerging markets working with regulators, healthcare interpretation of a new products likely future The development of our business in emerging professionals, distributors, law enforcement commercial performance.
markets may be a critical factor in determining agencies and other organisations to our future ability to sustain or increase the level protect patient interests.
The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical of our global product revenues.
Challenges that product involves a substantial investment in arise in relation to the development of the We participate in a variety of antisales and marketing costs, launch stocks and business in emerging markets include, but are counterfeiting forums in the public and other items.
The commercial success of our not limited to, competition from companies private sector, including the WHOs IMPACT new medicines is of particular importance to that are already present in the market, the need working group and the Pharmaceutical us in order to replace sales lost as and when to correctly identify and leverage appropriate Security Institute.
patent protection ceases in major markets opportunities for sales and marketing, poor for established marketed products.
If a new protection of intellectual property, inadequate LEGAL COMPLIANCE REGULATORY RISKS product does not succeed as anticipated or its protection against crime including Risk of adverse outcome of litigation and rate of sales growth is slower than anticipated, counterfeiting, corruption and fraud further or government investigations and risk of there is a risk that the costs incurred in details of which can be found below, insufficient insurance coverage launching it could have a materially adverse inadvertent breaches of local law regulation Note 27 to the Financial Statements includes effect on our financial condition and results of and not being able to recruit sufficient personnel information about legal proceedings in operations.
In addition, for launch of products with appropriate skills and experience.
which we are currently involved.
Unfavourable that are seasonal in nature, delays for regulatory The failure to exploit potential opportunities resolution of these and similar future approval or manufacturing difficulties can have appropriately in emerging markets may have proceedings, including government the effect of delaying launch to the next season a materially adverse effect on our financial investigations, competition and anti-trust and significantly reduce the value of costs spent condition and results of operations.
Information enquiries, investigations and litigation, in preparing for the launch for that season.
on the risks associated with the failure to product liability litigation and securities class obtain patent protection can be found above.
action law suits, may have a materially ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 197 RISK CONTINUED adverse effect on our financial condition and In recent years, regulatory authorities and Difficulty enrolling patients in clinical trials.
results of operations, not least because we sponsor companies have been under increased may be required to make significant public pressure to apply more conservative Our failure to obtain the required regulatory provisions in our accounts related to legal benefit risk criteria before a pharmaceutical approvals for the product candidate or proceedings and or governmental product is approved.
In addition, third party the facilities in which it is manufactured.
investigations, which would reduce earnings.
interpretation of publicly available data on In many cases, particularly in the US, the our marketed products has the potential to Adverse reactions to the product candidate practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages influence the approval status or labelling of a or indications of other safety concerns.
compensatory, punitive and statutory in currently approved and marketed product.
Accordingly, it is Our inability to manufacture sufficient difficult to quantify the potential exposure to Risk of failure to observe continuing quantities of the product candidate for claims in proceedings of the type referred to regulatory oversight development or commercialisation activities in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
Once a product has been approved for in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
marketing by regulatory authorities, it is Recent insurance loss experience in the subject to continuing control and regulation, Unfavourable data from key studies.
pharmaceutical industry, including product such as the manner of its manufacture, liability exposures, has increased the cost distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
Excessive costs of, or difficulty of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, In addition, the facilities in which products are in, manufacturing.
pharmaceutical companies product liability produced are subject to continuing inspections, insurance.
In order to contain insurance costs and minor changes in manufacturing processes Erosion of patent term and other intellectual in recent years, we have continued to adjust may require additional regulatory approvals, property rights, and infringement of those our coverage profile, accepting a greater either of which could result in us having to rights and the intellectual property rights degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group incur significant additional costs.
Regulatory owned by third parties.
has not held product liability insurance and authorities have wide-ranging administrative securities class action cover since February powers to deal with any failure to comply with Our failure to show value or a differentiated 2006.
In addition, where claims are made continuing regulatory oversight and this profile for our products.
under insurance policies, insurers may reserve could affect us whether such failure is our the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
own or that of third parties with which we As a result, we cannot be certain that If such denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, have relationships.
These powers include compounds currently under development this could result in material additional charges withdrawal of a marketing approval previously will achieve success.
For example, in 2007 to our earnings.
granted, product recalls, seizure of products we discontinued a number of projects as and other sanctions for non-compliance.
shown in the pipeline table on page 30.
Difficulties of obtaining and maintaining Regulatory sanction, following a failure to There can also be no guarantee that new regulatory approvals for new products comply with such continuing regulatory products in the pipeline will achieve market We are subject to strict controls on the oversight, could have a materially adverse success or come to market before the manufacture, labelling, distribution and effect on the conduct of our business, our expiration of our patents or the erosion of our marketing of pharmaceutical products.
financial condition and results of operations.
Furthermore, a The requirement to obtain regulatory In addition, because our products are intended succession of negative drug project results approval based on a products safety, efficacy to promote the health of patients, any supply and a failure to reduce development and quality before it may be marketed for a interruption could lead to allegations that public timelines effectively could adversely affect specified therapeutic indication or indications health has been endangered, and could lead the reputation of our R&D capabilities.
The in a particular country, and to maintain and to legal proceedings being filed against us.
failure of R&D to yield new products that to comply with licences and other regulations achieve commercial success may have a relating to its manufacture, are particularly BUSINESS EXECUTION RISKS materially adverse affect on our financial important.
The submission of an application Risk that R&D will not yield new products condition and results of operations.
to regulatory authorities which are different, that achieve commercial success with different requirements, in each region or The development of new pharmaceutical and Acquisitions and strategic alliances country may or may not lead to approval to biological products is complex and involves formed as part of our externalisation market the product.
Regulators can refuse to the commitment of substantial effort, funds strategy may be unsuccessful grant approval or may require additional data and other resources to R&D activities.
It also We may pursue acquisitions of complementary before approval is given, even though the involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty businesses, technology licensing arrangements medicine may already be launched in other and can take many years.
New products are and strategic alliances to expand our product parts of the world.
The countries that constitute important to replace the sales of older products portfolio and geographical presence as part key markets for our pharmaceutical products that decline upon the expiration of exclusive of our business strategy.
Examples of recent include the US, the countries of the EU and rights.
Our product development efforts with such strategic acquisitions, arrangements Japan.
The approval of a product is required respect to any product candidate may fail at and alliances include: by the relevant regulatory authority in each any stage of the process, and we may country, although a single pan-EU, marketing ultimately be unable to achieve commercial Acquisitions of MedImmune, Inc. authorisation approval can be obtained success for any number of reasons, including: Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc, through a centralised procedure.
Arrow Therapeutics Ltd and KuDOS Pharmaceuticals Limited.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 198 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 RISK CONTINUED Collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb In addition, integration of an acquired adverse effect on our financial condition and Company to develop and commercialise business could result in us incurring results of operations.
two investigational compounds being significant debt and unknown or contingent studied for the treatment of Type 2 liabilities, as well as having a negative effect Risk of failure to manage a crisis diabetes, saxagliptin and dapagliflozin.
on our reported results of operations from We handle chemical and biological materials, acquisition-related charges, amortisation of operate research and manufacturing plants Collaboration with POZEN Inc. to develop expenses related to intangibles and charges and distribute products worldwide.
Major a fixed dose combination of naproxen and for impairment of long-term assets.
These disruption to our business and damage to our esomeprazole for chronic pain PN400, effects, individually or in combination, could reputation may be triggered by an operational utilising POZENs proprietary technology.
cause a deterioration of our credit rating and incident or actions by third parties.
In these result in increased borrowing costs and circumstances, a well tried and tested plan Agreement with Abbott Laboratories for the interest expense.
We could also experience for addressing operational and other issues development of Abbotts next-generation difficulties in integrating geographically should ensure a timely response and the fenofibrate ABT-335 and Crestor in a separated organisations, systems and ability to resume business as usual.
Failure single pill, fixed-dose combination treatment facilities, and personnel with diverse to institute proper communication to internal to target all three major blood lipids backgrounds.
Integration of an acquired and external stakeholders and mobilise a LDL-C bad cholesterol, HDL-C good business may also require management rapid operational response could have a cholesterol and triglycerides.
resources that would otherwise be available materially adverse effect on our financial for continuing development of our existing condition and results of operations.
We may not complete these types of business.
For example, the process of transactions or collaborative projects in a ensuring that our biologics and vaccines Risk of delay to new product launches timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at business, MedImmune, is operationally Our continued success depends on the all, and may not realise the expected benefits independent within our R&D organisation development and successful launch of of any acquisition, licensing arrangement or but aligned with our overall R&D strategy innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch strategic alliance.
For example, in April 2007, and objectives may be time-consuming and dates of major new products have a we terminated our licensing and collaboration hard to achieve.
The process may result in significant impact on a number of areas of agreement with AtheroGenics, Inc. following business disruption, the loss of key employees, our business, including investment in large the discontinuation of the development of slower execution of various work processes, clinical trials, the manufacture of pre-launch AGI-1067 an investigational anti-atherosclerotic compliance failures due to a change in stocks of the products, investment in agent for the potential treatment of patients with applicable regulatory requirements and other marketing materials ahead of a product coronary artery disease due to its failure to issues such as a failure to integrate information launch, sales force training and the timing of meet its target product profile.
Other companies technology and other systems further details anticipated future revenue streams from may also compete with us for these strategic of the risks associated with information commercial sales of new products.
When we are able to complete technology and outsourcing can be found launch dates are primarily driven by the these transactions, the success of these types below.
Furthermore, although the operating development programmes that we run and of arrangements whether already existing model for MedImmune has significant potential the demands of the regulatory authorities in or to be entered into in the future is largely benefits, it may not be the most effective the approvals process, as well as pricing dependent on the technology and other way of realising efficiencies.
As a result, we negotiation in some countries.
Delays in intellectual property acquired from a business cannot be certain that we will not encounter anticipated launch dates can arise as a result or contributed from our strategic partners difficulties in aligning MedImmune whilst of adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical and the resources, efforts and skills of our maintaining its operational independence as studies, regulatory demands, competitor partners.
Disputes and difficulties in such contemplated, or that the expected benefits, activity and technology transfer.
Any delay to relationships are common, often due to including anticipated synergies, will be realised.
the anticipated launch dates may therefore conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest.
impact our business and operations in a The benefits of these alliances would be Risk of reliance on third parties for number of ways.
Significant delay to the reduced or eliminated should strategic supplies of materials and services anticipated launch dates of new products partners terminate the agreements: fail to Like most, if not all, major prescription could have a materially adverse effect on our devote sufficient financial or other resources pharmaceutical companies, in some of our financial condition and results of operations.
to the alliances: suffer negative outcomes in key business operations, such as the intellectual property disputes: fail to perform manufacture, formulation and packaging of Information technology and outsourcing their obligations as expected: or impose products, we increasingly rely on third parties We are dependent on effective information controls and commercial limitations over the for the timely supply of specified raw technology systems.
These systems are an marketing and promotion of products materials, equipment, contract important means of internal communication developed under that collaboration.
Also, manufacturing, formulation or packaging and communication with customers and under many of our strategic alliances, we services and maintenance services.
Although suppliers, and also play an important role in make milestone payments well in advance of we actively manage these third party respect of our R&D capabilities.
Any commercialisation of products, with no relationships to ensure continuity of supplies significant disruption of these systems could assurance that we will ever recoup those on time and to our required specifications, materially and adversely affect our payments.
If these types of transactions are some events beyond our control could result operations.
We also have a number of unsuccessful, this may have a materially in the complete or partial failure of supplies outsourcing arrangements in respect of adverse effect on our financial condition and or in supplies not being delivered on time.
critical processes and services and our results of operations.
Any such failure could have a materially increasing dependency on these service ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 199 RISK CONTINUED providers could impact on our ability to REPUTATION deliver on business targets and to maintain Some parts of society continue to challenge our compliance status and reputation.
the pharmaceuticals industry, which is under the close scrutiny of the public, the media and Risks relating to productivity initiatives other stakeholders.
Rising expectations are We are implementing various productivity especially noteworthy in the areas of improving initiatives and restructuring programmes, with access to medicines for the underprivileged, the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency both in our established markets and in of the business.
However, the anticipated less-developed nations: business conduct in cost savings and other benefits are based on our supply chain: fair marketing practices: preliminary estimates and the actual savings bio-ethical challenges: working conditions: may vary significantly.
In particular, these cost human rights: and animal rights.
Although reduction measures are based on current we seek to manage these risks through conditions and do not take into account any various proactive measures, there can be no future changes to the pharmaceutical assurance that in the future such risks will not industry or our operations, including new have a materially adverse effect on our business developments, wage and price financial condition or results of operations.
Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee consultation processes or otherwise, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate going forward, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
