Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 37 Directors report Significant agreements its case through representative bodies and, if necessary, There are no agreements between the company and its directors or incorporate changes into its designs at an early stage.
The effect employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment of any delays caused by changes to the requirements is mitigated that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Some of the groups banking by the strategy of maintaining income at the properties that are arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the company if it makes a Corporate risks distribution to another company which is beneficially entitled to 10% That the group suffers either reputational damage or financial costs or more of the shares or dividends in the company or controls 10% through failing to comply with the regulations that govern business or more of the voting rights in the company a substantial shareholder, generally and the property sector specifically.
unless the company has taken reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
The companys articles of association The group retains a team of professional advisers to identify allow the directors to take such steps, including the power: changes to the legislative environment and advise on compliance.
Health and safety is a key concern in this area and the group to identify a substantial shareholder: employs five managers to monitor compliance with its health and to withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial shareholder: safety policy.
and to require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial Property risks shareholding.
That projects are delayed or the outcome adversely affected by either a contractor or sub-contractor becoming insolvent.
Risk management and internal control The board recognises that risk is an inherent part of running a business The accounts of the contractors used by the group are regularly and that whilst it aims to maximise returns, the associated risks must be reviewed.
Generally the group selects contractors from a pool understood and managed.
Overall responsibility for this process rests of contractors that are well known to it.
Specific strategies are with the board whilst executive management is responsible for designing, implemented to mitigate the potential effect of an insolvency where implementing and maintaining the necessary systems of control.
a sub-contractor is seen to present a substantial risk to the critical path of a project.
Key to this function is the groups risk register which is reviewed formally once a year.
The register is initially prepared by the executive That projects incur cost overruns due to construction cost inflation.
board which, having created the list of risks, collectively assesses the severity of the risk, the likelihood of it occurring and the strength of the The group uses various procurement routes to manage this risk and controls over the risk.
This approach allows the effect of any mitigating considers the use of alternative materials sources which are subject procedures to be considered, recognising that risk cannot be totally to less inflationary pressure.
eliminated and that some activities incur inherent risk.
The register is then reviewed and commented upon by the audit committee before Financial risks being considered and adopted by the full board.
That the group may breach the REIT regulations due to the nature of the legislation and the ongoing need to interpret the new requirements.
The risk register is divided into four parts: strategic risks, corporate risks, property risks and financial risks.
During this years review, which An adviser was retained by the group specifically to advise on the was conducted in November 2007, no unacceptable residual risks REIT regulations prior to conversion and they continue to advise were identified by the board.
Some of the more significant risks, the group on ongoing compliance matters.
The key REIT ratios are together with the controls that operate over that part of the business, reported in the quarterly rolling forecasts to identify any potential are set out below.
compliance problems at an early stage to enable them to be effectively managed.
Strategic risks That a downturn in the property sector could result in overextended The systems that control the risks on the risk register form the development activity.
groups system of internal control.
The effectiveness of this system and the operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed The group carries out an annual strategic review and, each quarter, for the accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the prepares a rolling forecast for the following two years.
monitoring key ratios derived from these documents, together with various sensitivities, the board can assess the effect of the planned development programme.
The groups strategy of maintaining income from properties until a development starts, allows the programme to be adapted if necessary.
That changes to central London planning requirements will reduce the return from development schemes.
The board is kept appraised of proposed changes by its professional advisers.
This enables the company to present
