30 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Risk management The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivering of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the controls and processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Risk Mitigation Market risk Property markets are cyclical.
Performance depends on Research into the economy and the investment and general economic conditions, a combination of supply occupational markets is evaluated as part of the Groups and demand for floor space as well as overall return annual strategy process covering the key areas of investment, aspirations of investors.
development and asset management and updated regularly throughout the year.
The impact of changes in legislation particularly in respect Through the use of experienced advisers and direct contact, of environmental legislation and planning regulations.
senior Group representatives spend considerable time ensuring that buildings are refurbished or redeveloped in line with current regulations including, for example, changing environmental legislation requirements in the most cost effective manner.
Development Failure to obtain or delays in gaining planning consents.
Planning applications are proactively managed.
The Company monitors changes in planning legislation and has good working relationships with planning authorities and consultants.
Specialist advisers are used to forecast both labour and construction costs.
Procurement strategies are employed to mitigate this risk as far as possible.
Detailed appraisals are produced at key stages of the development process to ensure that decisions are based on up-to-date forecasts.
Market analysis and sensitivities are included within the development appraisals.
The Company has resource dedicated to the letting of the developments supported by a strong network of specialist leasing agents.
Investment Difficulty in sourcing investment opportunities at The Company has dedicated resources whose remit is attractive prices.
to constantly research each of the sub markets within central London seeking the right balance of investment and development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated market conditions.
Portfolio returns impaired by inappropriate recycling Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to of capital.
ensure the appropriate churn of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Attracting and retaining the right people Achieving the Companys aims requires people of the The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly highest calibre.
linked to performance and a formal appraisal system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and the identification of training needs.
Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient undrawn facilities in place.
Funding maturities are managed across the short-, mediumand long-term.
The Groups funding sources are diversified across a range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
The proportion of floating rate interest exposure is maintained between 2040% of forecast total interest cost.
Financial ratios are monitored and regularly reported to the Board.
