Risk ManageMent How we mAnAge Risk Risk management is integral to the achievement of our financial and operating objectives.
Our risk management policies are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss and enhance performance when the right opportunities arise.
We have developed a risk management framework to identify and control risk.
The five principal risk areas in that framework, and the steps we take to mitigate them, are shown in the table below.
We have also included references to the pages in this Annual Report where these risks, or the parts of the business affected by them, are discussed further.
RISK MITIGATION COMMENTARY Business strategy Implementation of a strategy We commission and evaluate research Property markets and outlook, inconsistent with the market into the economy and investment and pages 24 and 25 environment.
occupational markets and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and regular financial forecasts.
Over-concentration of activities Hammersons portfolio is diversified Property portfolio and allocation, and investment exposure by country and sector and its allocation page 34 in particular markets.
Property investment Acquisition of properties that fail Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, Investment portfolio, to meet performance expectations.
pages 37 and 38 Opportunities for the sale of The performance of individual Investment portfolio, properties are overlooked.
properties is benchmarked pages 37 and 38 against target returns.
Property development Poor control of the development Detailed analysis, including market Current and future developments, programme and failure to address research, is undertaken prior to the pages 43 to 45 investment and occupational approval of each development project.
The groups overall exposure to developments is monitored and projects phased.
A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
Business organisation and human resources Failure to recruit and retain key staff Recruitment procedures and the Remuneration Report, with appropriate skills and calibre.
remuneration structure are regularly pages 60 to 67 reviewed and benchmarked.
Succession plans are developed for Corporate Governance, page 54 senior positions.
Treasury Breach of borrowings covenants, Financial ratios are monitored and Chairmans Statement, pages 5 to 7 triggering default and or repayment.
regularly reported to the Board.
Financial Review, pages 46 to 51 Insufficient liquidity to progress Future investment requirements are Notes 19 and 20 to the accounts the development programme.
reviewed and sufficient facilities put on pages 92 to 99 in place in advance.
Financial Review, page 51 Adverse currency or interest Fixed rate borrowings are used where Notes 19 and 20 to the accounts rate movements.
appropriate and foreign currency on pages 92 to 99 denominated assets financed by borrowings in the same currency.
