21 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Risk and Risk Management A summary of the key policies and fide La Rues reputation is based on security, procedures is provided to senior managers.
A comprehensive summary of generic risks faced by all The controls by their nature are designed businesses including fide La Rue was set to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and out in the Annual Report 2006 which is can only provide reasonable but not available on the Companys website at absolute assurance against material www.
This section therefore misstatement or loss.
The processes only summarises the types of risks which used by the Board and, on its behalf, by are either specific to fide La Rue or which the Audit and Risk Committees have been could have a material, adverse effect on in place throughout the year, and include: the Group.
It also describes the risk management systems and processes in reviewing monthly finance, operational place.
and development reports: No business is risk free even if it has reviewing internal and external audit detailed processes and procedures for plans: identifying and managing risks.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance reviewing significant issues identified by requires the Board to maintain a sound internal and external audits: system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the reviewing significant Group risks and risk companys assets and at least annually mitigation actions reported by the Risk to conduct a review of the effectiveness Committee: of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Board carries out such an annual reviewing annual compliance statements review covering all material controls, in the form of self-audit questionnaires: including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management reviewing reports on other such matters systems while receiving throughout the as security, health and safety, year information about the Groups environmental issues and fire risks: and operations enabling it regularly to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks to which discussions with management on risk the Company is exposed.
The Board is areas identified by management and or therefore able to confirm that its system the audit process and any changes from of internal control has been in place the previous review.
The financial control framework includes Internal Control and Internal Financial the following key features: Control The Board has overall responsibility for an annual strategic planning process: the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It relies on an annual budget: the Audit Committee and Risk Committee to assist in this process.
Details of the a system of monthly reporting by each Audit and Risk Committees are set out operating subsidiary which involves in the Corporate Governance section.
comparison of actual results with the original budget and the updating of a Management is responsible for full year forecast: implementing the controls which are designed to meet the particular needs monthly reporting of performance to the of the Group, and the risks to which it is Board: exposed, with procedures intended to provide effective internal control.
Divisional audited annual financial statements: and managing directors, to whom general managers of each business report, are interim financial statements reviewed by responsible for establishing and the auditors.
22 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Risk and Risk Management continued The main control procedures which The Board is responsible for strategy, address the financial implications of the carrying out an annual review based upon major business risks are centred on strict extensive, detailed reviews of individual approval procedures, which were revised businesses plans.
following a review during the year and which apply to all subsidiaries.
These At an operational level Cash Systems is include: facing increased competition in the teller assist recycler market which it is meeting executive Directors approval of all major with the launch of the new VERTERA non-routine revenue expenditure: Teller Cash Recycler.
Board approval of all major capital The Currency business operates within a expenditure: defined market size and the business is exposed to the short term ordering cycles Board approval of all acquisitions and of central banks.
Significant year-on-year disposals: changes in volume or customer mix could affect profitability.
There is no significant a system of authorisation limits which geographical dependence although Africa cascades throughout the Group: and and the Middle East are key banknote markets.
Security Products key customers Board consideration of any matter having are Microsoft, Royal Mail and American a material effect on the Group.
In Cash Systems, growth depends on the USA.
The operation of the Group Treasury department is discussed in the Financial Reputation Review on page 26.
Damage to reputation may arise from an incident or event which is in monetary Specific Risks terms not material.
Matters which could Strategy, Technology, Competition affect fide La Rues reputation would include and Market Concentration significant breaches of security or a The Groups strategy and progress in contravention of law, such as competition implementing it is outlined on pages law or anti-bribery law, environment or 11 to 20. health and safety law or a failure to maintain appropriate standards of corporate fide La Rue operates in niche markets responsibility.
fide La Rue operates based on the production and management throughout the world and in areas where of cash.
The main, strategic threat is the local standards may not equate to the either that there is a technological standards required by the UK or those that revolution which renders cash obsolete fide La Rue requires all its subsidiaries and or that the core business diminishes employees to follow as regards business over a period of time.
Details of these standards are set out in the Corporate Responsibility fide La Rue manages this risk by focusing Report on pages 28 to 31. on innovation in features and products to stay ahead of the competition and in particular the counterfeiter.
23 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Significant effort is made to ensure that Outsourcing employees understand legal obligations The programme for outsourcing the and there is an established anti-trust manufacture of selected products or core compliance programme and the components to enhance cost effectiveness Companys Business Code of Conduct continues.
This requires careful accessible on the Companys website management of subcontractors to ensure defines what standards of behaviour are continuity of supply and production in expected.
Agents and distributors are also accordance with specification.
required to adhere to the Companys standards.
Financial Risk Management Financial Risk Factors Security The Groups activities expose it to a The nature of the Groups activities requires variety of financial risks: market risk stringent security processes and including currency risk and fair value procedures and steps are taken to minimise interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, the consequences of possible breaches.
cash flow interest rate risk and commodity The Group is in the process of reviewing all price risk.
The Groups overall risk its processes and procedures.
management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and Associates Investment seeks to minimise potential adverse effects Loss of dividends from Camelot were it to on the Groups financial performance.
The lose the National Lottery Operating licence Group uses derivative financial instruments would have an adverse effect.
The current to hedge certain risk exposures as soon as licence runs to 2009 and the National they arise but does not take speculative Lottery Commission is currently evaluating positions.
Risk management is carried out two bids, including Camelots, for the third by a central treasury department Group operating licence.
Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates Overton Mill and hedges financial risks in close The Group is highly dependent on its cooperation with the Groups operating paper mill at Overton which is close to the units.
River Test in Hampshire, UK.
The business of Security Paper and Print would suffer Group Treasury provides written principles significant losses to its printing business if for overall risk management, as well as the mill were out of action for a sustained policies covering specific areas, such as period of time, either by reason of fire or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, some other accident or because of credit risk, use of derivative financial environmental contamination of the River instruments and the investment of excess Test, which is a Site of Special Scientific liquidity.
The Board authorises all risk Interest.
The Group regularly reviews its management instruments and policies.
physical protection systems and updates them as necessary to mitigate this risk.
The consequences of fire or physical loss to any of its printing plants are less significant because the Group has the flexibility to switch production to different plants.
As the Group outsources production of its Cash Systems products, the risk of loss of its own factories decreases.
The Group requires all its businesses and its subcontractors to have business continuity plans based on business impact analyses of the consequences of particular risks.
24 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk and Risk Management Risk and Risk Management continued a Market Risk b Credit Risk Foreign Exchange Risk The Group has no significant The Group operates internationally and is concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies exposed to foreign exchange risk arising in place to ensure that wholesale sales of from various currency exposures, primarily products are made to customers with an with respect to the US Dollar, euro, appropriate credit history.
Derivative Swedish Krona and the UK pound.
counterparties and cash transactions are Foreign exchange risk arises from future limited to high-credit quality financial commercial transactions, recognised institutions.
The Group has policies that assets and liabilities and net investments limit the amount of credit exposure to any in foreign operations.
To manage their one financial institution.
An analysis of net foreign exchange risk arising from future assets per geographical region is shown in commercial transactions and recognised Note 2 to the accounts.
assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with c Liquidity Risk Group Treasury.
Foreign exchange risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies arises when future commercial transactions maintaining sufficient cash and marketable or recognised assets or liabilities are securities, the availability of funding through denominated in a currency that is not the an adequate amount of committed credit entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury facilities and the ability to close our market is responsible for managing the net position positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the in each foreign currency by using external underlying businesses, Group Treasury forward foreign exchange contracts aims to maintain flexibility in funding by transacting with financial institutions.
keeping committed credit lines available.
For segment reporting purposes, each d Cash Flow and Fair Value subsidiary designates contracts with Group Interest Rate Risk Treasury as fair value hedges or cash flow fide La Rues interest rate management hedges, as appropriate.
External forward policy is generally to borrow and invest foreign exchange contracts are designated cash at floating rates.
The Groups interest at Group level as hedges of foreign rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities Borrowings issued at variable rates expose or future transactions on a gross basis.
the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose The Groups risk management policy is the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
to hedge firm commitments and between 60 per cent and 100 per cent of forecast The Groups exposure to cash flow exposures in each major currency for interest rate risk arises principally from the subsequent 12 months.
Current low levels of transactions must be highly probable for borrowings are all at floating rate.
The Group higher levels of borrowings the policy is has certain investments in foreign to manage the interest rate exposure operations, whose net assets are exposed through the use of floating to fixed interest to foreign currency translation risk.
Such interest rate swaps have Currency exposure arising from the net the economic effect of converting assets of the Groups foreign operations borrowings from floating rates to fixed is managed primarily through borrowings rates so as to achieve a target split.
denominated in the relevant foreign currencies and through foreign currency e Commodity Price Risk swaps.
The Groups normal policy is to buy commodities at prevailing market prices under medium term supply contracts.
The Group has limited exposure to commodity price risk through the purchase of energy products.
