Business Review Risk Management The procedures adopted by the Group to manage website, require all employees to comply with all relevant its key risks, including environmental, social and laws and regulations in the countries in which they governance risks, and to comply with the guidance of operate.
The Group recognises the risk that substantial the Turnbull Committee are described in the Corporate fines, or other penalties, may be imposed for nonGovernance section on pages 38 to 40.
The Groups compliance with laws and regulations relating to exposure to individual risks is limited and diversied by competition, environmental, health and safety or the fact that it has several distinct types of activity, with other matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing 27 business sectors operating from over 100 sites in programmes and systems, and special initiatives in 16 different countries, and it sells to a broad range of place for monitoring compliance.
It also carries out customers.
Any significant commercial and other risks training programmes for employees and has systems that are specic to a business segment are described in place to share expertise and best practice on these within the narrative on that segment.
The Group has a workplace malpractice Group-wide key risks and the way they are managed policy, and a process for employees to report any are described below.
The Group seeks to mitigate its suspected wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place insurable risks through an insurance programme that across its international operations where such reporting covers property and liability risks where it is relevant is permitted by law.
and cost-effective to do so.
Political instability Movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates profits from the Groups wholly-owned operations are These risks and the way in which they are managed not subject to any significant degree of political risk through the Groups Treasury Committee and its as they are almost entirely located in countries which subsidiary committees or groups are described are members of the Organisation for Economic Coon pages 28 and 29. operation and Development OECD, members of which are committed to democratic government and the market The funding position on the Groups UK dened benefit economy.
The Groups adjusted after tax profits from pension scheme and the consequent impact of any associated undertakings, which totalled 3.9 million deficit on corporate activity in 2006 07, are currently exposed to some political The funding on the Groups dened benefit scheme risk as they are substantially derived from Rubezhansk, is sensitive to a number of factors.
The Group faces a paper and corrugated packaging business located the risk that this funding position will deteriorate over in Ukraine, a country which has recently experienced time, in particular if actual longevity exceeds current political instability.
The Groups ability to manage this assumptions and investment returns are lower than risk is also lessened since it has inuence, rather than expected.
The Group and the schemes trustee have control, over these operations.
The Group maintains sought to mitigate this risk through the schemes a close relationship with local management and regular investment strategy and through having increased the visits are made to Ukraine by Group executives to contributions made to the scheme by both the members ensure a good understanding of the business and and the Group.
The regulatory environment for pension the context in which it is operating.
schemes and their trustees has changed in recent years, in particular with the Pensions Act 2004: the presence Volatility and increasing energy prices of a deficit in a scheme may now oblige the trustee or The Groups exposure to energy costs is described possibly the Pensions Regulator to seek some further on page 28 and is being managed in a number of funding of the scheme in the event of a significant ways.
The Group is looking to maximise in-house corporate action or perceived decline in the Groups energy generation from its combined heat and power financial covenant.
CHP plants in the UK and France and a UK waste-toenergy plant, thereby taking advantage of the greater The continuing availability of borrowing facilities, efficiency of the CHP process.
It is also investigating including compliance with borrowing covenants the potential for the use of renewable or low-carbon The Groups borrowing facilities and their management energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel.
The through the Treasury Committee are described on Group has recently closed two of its least energypages 28 and 29. efficient operations and continues to reduce its energy Serious breaches of the law or other regulations usage through energy-saving projects: these factors The Groups Key Corporate Values, which are described contributed signicantly to a 15% reduction in the in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review Groups energy usage in 2006 07 compared with on page 33 and are available in full on the Groups 2005 06.
The Group has developed further its DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 31 Business Review Risk Management continued centralised energy-purchasing approach in the UK and recover any raw material cost increases through good France, which enables it to obtain economies of scale material usage programmes and through price rises.
in buying and to apply specialist expertise, including Approximately one-third of the Groups corrugated the application of price-hedging techniques.
Regulatory and plastic packaging customer contracts include developments in the energy market are monitored and arrangements to link selling prices to an index of raw the Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other material prices.
The achievement of price increases for heavy energy users in the paper and other industry the majority of our Packaging business is substantially sectors to inuence government on energy policy and determined by the state of supply and demand in the the operation of the energy markets.
relevant market at any time.
Due to the variety of contractual arrangements with customers, margins Increasing costs in the medium-term related to climate may be squeezed for a period of time until price change and carbon dioxide CO emissions.
2 increases are achieved to recover input cost increases.
As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is likely, in the medium-term, to be increasingly subject to The Groups Severnside Recycling business collects regulation and taxation of its CO emissions.
The details and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous 2 of this and the actions being taken to reduce the Groups cost-competitive supply to the Groups paper mills.
future energy usage and CO emissions are described It achieves this through long-term contracts with 2 in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 34 major suppliers of waste paper and the collection and 35 and in the statement of the Groups strategy of waste from smaller suppliers through its network for managing its energy costs above in this section.
Changes in packaging demand as a result of Of the Groups total polymer and lm purchases in environmental concerns 2006 07, polycarbonate, polypropylene and high The increasing concerns of consumers, retailers and density polyethylene accounted for approximately 45% with the remainder comprising a large number of government about conservation of resources and waste reduction may result in lower total usage of packaging different polymers and lms.
The Group has developed or changes in the pattern of demand for certain types a good level of knowledge in polymer purchasing and of packaging.
The positive role that most packaging uses a number of suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at plays in contributing to reducing total waste in the competitive prices.
supply chain and the actions that the Groups Product liability packaging businesses have been taking for a number The Groups packaging products, many of which are of years to minimise the use of resources, are described supplied into the food and beverage industries, may in the Packaging and the Environment section of the give rise to potentially substantial product liability Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 35 to 37. claims in the event of a failure of the packaging to Our packaging businesses are increasingly working perform its function when in use or from contamination with the other members of their product supply chains to of the product by its packaging.
The potential for such minimise the total environmental impact of the production, claims is reduced by the fact that the majority of the distribution, use and disposal of goods.
At the same Groups packaging is used as secondary, or transit, time, the Group is collaborating with other companies packaging and does not come into direct contact with which produce, specify or use packaging to increase the products it ultimately protects.
The Group takes all the understanding of government and other opinionreasonable steps to ensure the safety and adequate formers of the positive role packaging does, and can performance levels of its packaging through design, in future, play in achieving more sustainable consumption.
manufacturing control processes, technical testing and Volatility of pricing and availability of globally traded other means while having appropriate product liability raw materials insurances in place.
It also looks to minimise its product In 2006 07, the Group purchased over 75 million liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions of waste paper and approximately 85 million of of trading.
polymers and lms as the principal raw materials in Other social and environmental matters its Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively.
The Groups management of other social and These products are globally traded and subject to variations in supply and demand which result in environmental risks is described in the Corporate volatility in their pricing.
The Group endeavours to Responsibility Review on pages 33 to 37.
32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007
