Risks and uncertainties Technology As described under corporate There could be security breaches of Experians systems objectives and strategy on page 19, and processes or our systems could fail.
Our data centres are protected against damage from fire, power loss, Experians vision is that our people, telecommunications failure, natural disaster, hardware or data and technology become a software malfunction, computer viruses or other purposeful necessary part of every major attacks, such as physical break-ins or hacking.
To mitigate the risk from insecure or unreliable IT systems, we maintain consumer economy around the world.
off-site copies of all information contained in databases, run The major potential risks to achieving back-up data centres, have established support arrangements with third party vendors and have strict this are either specific to Experian, such standards, procedures and training schemes for technology as information security, or more services, physical security, information security and business general such as the impact of continuity.
Risks to Experian are Other risks anticipated and regularly assessed and Experian could face increased competition, especially in the credit reporting industry.
We mitigate this risk through our internal controls are enhanced continued research and investment in people, technology where necessary to ensure that such and products as prioritised by our strategic plan.
There may be consolidation among Experians clients, which may cause price compression and a reduction in We have identified the following major potential risks.
However, no single client accounts for more than 3% of our sales, which reduces the probability of Specific risks for Experian this potential risk having a significant impact on us.
People Experian is dependent upon highly skilled personnel, Acquisitions may not meet expectations.
We assess all especially our senior management and other experienced acquisitions rigorously using both in-house expertise and staff.
Loss of these people could have an adverse effect on that of professional advisors.
our ability to deliver our corporate objectives.
We aim to provide compensation and benefits that are competitive with There may be an economic downturn in one of Experians other leading companies, as well as fulfilling future career major markets, which impacts the demand for consumer opportunities.
As described on page 16, the breadth of Experians portfolio by product, by geography, by sector and Data by client partly mitigates the impact of this risk.
The data that Experian holds may be inappropriately used.
Experian has established rigorous information security The outcome of litigation could be unfavourable to policies, standards, procedures, recruitment and training Experian.
We carry insurance cover against such risks and schemes, which are embedded throughout our business employ numerous expert legal personnel in-house and operations.
We also screen new third party partners carefully retain the services of several leading legal practices around and conduct targeted audits on their operations.
The loss the world to assist in the effective management and and or potential misuse of consumer data is addressed both disposal of legal proceedings.
procedurally through continued investment in IT security infrastructure, including the significant use of data and Experian could fail to protect adequately its valuable communications encryption technology around the world.
intellectual property rights or face claims for intellectual property right infringement.
Experian seeks patent Legislation or government regulations may alter what data protection and appropriate agreements regarding its Experian can collect and how we collect it.
To the best of intellectual property rights where appropriate and feasible our knowledge, we are in compliance with data protection and continues to monitor this situation.
requirements in the jurisdictions in which Experian operates.
We actively monitor our collection and use of personal data, Further discussion of risks facing Experian can be found in while our legal, regulatory and government affairs the prospectus for the global offer, dated 14 September departments work closely with senior management to adopt 2006, which is available on our website at strategies to educate lawmakers and influence the public www.
policy debate where appropriate around the world.
