Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Principal risks and uncertainties A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by management and is embedded into our corporate planning process.
Each area of the business is required to the markets in which we operate, to alleged foreign trading and related formally review their principal areas of risk there are regulatory restrictions affecting violations by a number of people, and uncertainty so that major risks are the manufacture, development, sale, including former Reemtsma employees, reviewed at all levels across the Group.
distribution, marketing and advertising during a period prior to our 2002 This is an ongoing process, ensuring there of tobacco products.
Increased regulation acquisition of Reemtsma, is included are clear and consistent procedures for may increase our operating costs and in the Corporate Governance Report.
monitoring, updating and implementing may have an adverse effect on the appropriate controls to manage the demand for our products.
Key Market Dependency identied risks.
The Board acknowledges The continued organic growth of the responsibility for the Groups systems Excise Duty business is underpinned by our key of internal control.
More detailed Increasing excise duty on tobacco products markets.
Any material decline in the information on the Groups approach is likely to reduce the demand for tobacco performance of these markets may to risk management is found in the products.
Tobacco products are subject impact our future profit development.
to excise duty which, in many of the markets We are subject to the same general in which we operate, represents a Competition Law risks and uncertainties as any other substantial percentage of the retail price We have significant market positions in business, for example, the political stability and has been steadily increasing in recent certain markets.
As a result, we may be in the countries in which we operate and years.
Increasing levels of excise duty subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny as source our raw materials, the impact of have, among other things, encouraged to competition law in these markets, which natural disasters and changes in general consumers in affected markets to switch could result in adverse regulatory action by economic conditions including currency from premium priced cigarettes to lower relevant authorities, including the potential and interest rate uctuations, changes priced cigarettes and ne cut tobacco.
for monetary fines, and negative publicity.
in taxation legislation and the impact Substantial increases in excise duty Along with a number of other companies of competition.
and any signicantly unfavourable change we supplied information to the UK Ofce Outlined below is a description of the in the tax treatment of ne cut tobacco, of Fair Trading OFT in October 2003 principal risks and uncertainties that are if widely adopted, may have an adverse and April 2005 in relation to an enquiry specic to, and may impact, our business.
effect on the size of individual duty paid into the operations of the UK tobacco Not all these factors are within the Groups markets for our products.
supply chain, but to date no substantive control.
There may be other risks and Excise duty increases have also response to any of the information uncertainties which are unknown to the encouraged both legal and illegal crosssubmitted has been received from the Group or which may not be material border trade from countries with lower OFT.
The OFTs enquiry is continuing.
now but could turn out to be material levels of duty and the production of In the event that the OFT ultimately in the future.
Within decides that a company has infringed A more detailed description of the such an environment there is a risk that UK competition law, it may impose a ne.
risks relating to us and to the proposed we and or our employees may be acquisition of Altadis is set out in Part III subject to investigation by customs Litigation of our circular to shareholders dated or other authorities.
Although we have We may incur substantial costs in 18 July 2007 and is available on our implemented procedures to detect and connection with health-related litigation.
com control illegal trading of our products, Various tobacco litigation claims are such procedures can provide only pending against the Group.
To date, no Regulation reasonable and not absolute assurance tobacco litigation claim brought against The tobacco industry is subject to of detecting non-compliance by managing Imperial Tobacco has been successful substantial and increasing regulation.
and or resulted in the recovery of damages.
For many years the trend has been Further information regarding certain However, if any individual claim were to towards an increasingly restrictive investigations initiated by the German be successful, it may result in a significant regulatory environment.
In many of authorities in January 2003 in relation liability for damages, and may lead to For more information visit For more information see the Corporate p37 www.
com Governance section of this Report 12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
