BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Treasury policy is to manage financial risks that arise in relation The Syndicated Bank Facility contains two financial covenants, to underlying business needs.
The activities of the treasury interest cover and net debt earnings before interest, tax, depreciation function are carried out in accordance with Board approved and amortisation.
The Group is in compliance with both policies and are subject to regular audit.
The treasury function covenants, neither of which is expected to represent a material does not operate as a profit centre.
restriction on funding or investment policy in the foreseeable future.
Medium and long-term borrowing requirements at 31 December Further information on the Groups treasury management can be 2007 were met through a 1.1bn Syndicated Bank Facility which found in note 21 on page 74 in the notes to the Group Financial matures in November 2009.
Short-term borrowing requirements Statements 2007. were principally met from drawings under committed and uncommitted bilateral loan facilities.
At the year end, the Group had 377m of committed facilities available for drawing.
Asset disposal programme Number Net book of hotels Proceeds value Disposed since April 2003 181 3.0bn 2.9bn Remaining owned and leased hotels 18 0.9bn During 2007, IHG achieved further progress with its asset disposal These transactions support IHGs continued strategy of growing its programme, including: managed and franchised business whilst reducing asset ownership.
Since April 2003, 181 hotels with a net book value of 2.9bn have the sale of the Crowne Plaza Santiago for $21m before been sold, generating aggregate proceeds of 3.0bn, of which 162 transaction costs, approximately $9m above net book value.
of these hotels remained in the IHG system through the successful Under the agreement, IHG retained a 10 year franchise contract: negotiation of either management or franchise agreements.
the sale of its 74.11% share of the InterContinental Montreal During 2007, IHG also divested a number of equity interests for 17m before transaction costs, approximately 5m above of which proceeds totalled 57m, including a 33.3% interest in book value.
Under the agreement, IHG retained a 30 year the Crowne Plaza London The City for 19m and a 15% interest management contract on the hotel: and in the InterContinental Chicago for 11m.
the sale of the Holiday Inn Disney, Paris for 14m before transaction costs, approximately 2m above book value.
Under the agreement, IHG retained a five year franchise contract.
Return of funds programme Total Returned Still to Timing return to date be returned 501m special dividend Paid in December 2004 501m 501m Nil First 250m share buyback Completed in 2004 250m 250m Nil 996m capital return Paid in July 2005 996m 996m Nil Second 250m share buyback Completed in 2006 250m 250m Nil 497m special dividend Paid in June 2006 497m 497m Nil Third 250m share buyback Completed in 2007 250m 250m Nil 709m special dividend Paid in June 2007 709m 709m Nil 150m share buyback Under way 150m 50m 100m Total 3,603m 3,503m 100m In the year, IHG paid a 709m special dividend, completed a third At the year end, 100m of this buyback was outstanding.
250m share buyback and commenced a 150m share buyback.
Since March 2004, IHG has returned 3.5bn to shareholders.
Business review 21 Business review continued Risk management rights to the same extent as the laws in the US and the European Union.
This is particularly relevant in China where, despite recent The Group is subject to a variety of risks which could have a improvements in intellectual property rights, the relative lack negative impact on its performance and financial condition.
The of protection increases the risk that the Group will be unable Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control to prevent infringements of its intellectual property in this key and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any widespread infringement or misappropriation to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established an could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ongoing process to identify significant business risks facing the ability to develop the business.
The Board also receives assurance from the internal The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to identifying, audit and risk management functions that these risks are being securing and retaining management and franchise agreements appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, cost and opportunity.
securing and retaining management and franchise agreements.
This section describes some of the risks that could materially Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce affect the Groups business.
The factors below should be considered the number of suitable management, franchise and investment in connection with any financial and forward-looking information opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining in this Business Review and the cautionary statements contained power of property owners seeking to engage a manager or on page 101. become a franchisee.
The terms of new management or franchise agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
and the Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not on the same terms.
currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
All of these risks could materially affect the Groups business, There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to revenue, operating profit, earnings, net assets and liquidity identify, retain or add franchisees to the Group system or to and or capital resources.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, planning and other local regulations or the The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply protection of its intellectual property rights of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more management agreements.
There are also risks that significant of the Groups brands and or failure to sustain the appeal of the franchisees or groups of franchisees may have interests that Groups brands to its customers could have an adverse impact conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support brand brand or business.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands is improvement initiatives.
In connection with entering into influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be management or franchise agreements, the Group may be outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations price quality becomes relatively more important than brand of, third-parties or guarantee minimum income to third-parties.
identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of thirdparty intermediaries, consumer preference and perception, Changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be failure by the Group or its franchisees to ensure compliance implemented that have the effect of favouring franchisees relative with the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations to brand owners.
including fire and life safety requirements, or other factors The Group is exposed to the risks of political and economic affecting consumers willingness to purchase goods and services, developments including any factor which adversely affects the reputation of The Group is exposed to the risks of global and regional adverse those brands.
political, economic and financial market developments, including In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to recession, inflation and currency fluctuations that could lower its operating and quality standards, or the significant regulations revenues and reduce income.
A recession in one country or more applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its management and widely tends to reduce leisure and business travel to and from franchise contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon affected countries and would adversely affect room rates and or brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value occupancy levels and other income-generating activities resulting of the hotel brands.
in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reducing the value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups potential owners of hotels managed or franchised by one group business, the Group has invested considerable effort in protecting face similar risks which could adversely affect IHGs ability to its intellectual property, including registration of trademarks and secure management or franchise agreements.
However, the laws of certain foreign countries in the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is which the Group operates do not protect the Groups proprietary particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy.
22 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Further political or economic factors or regulatory action could The Group is reliant upon its proprietary reservation system effectively prevent the Group from receiving profits from, or selling and is exposed to the risk of failures in the system and its investments in, certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect increased competition in reservation infrastructure operations.
For example, changes to tax rates or legislation in The value of the brands of the Group is partly derived from the the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could decrease the ability to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus proportion of profits the Group is entitled to retain, or the Groups reservation system, an electronic booking and delivery channel interpretation of various tax laws and regulations may prove to directly linked to travel agents, hotels and internet networks.
be incorrect, resulting in higher than expected tax charges.
Inadequate disaster recovery arrangements, or inadequate In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates between continued investment in this technology, leading to loss of key sterling, the currency in which the Group reports its financial communications linkages, particularly in relation to HolidexPlus, statements, and the US dollar and other currencies in which internet reservation channels and other key parts of the IT the Groups international operations or investments do business, infrastructure for a prolonged period, or permanently, may could adversely affect the Groups reported earnings and the value result in significant business interruption and subsequent of its business.
Fluctuations of this type have been experienced impact on revenues.
over recent years with the significant strengthening of sterling The Group is also exposed to the risk of competition from thirdagainst the US dollar.
As the majority of the Groups profits are party intermediaries who provide reservation infrastructure.
In generated in the US, such fluctuations may have a significant particular, any significant increase in the use of these reservation impact on the Groups reported results.
channels in preference to proprietary channels may impact the The Group is dependent upon recruiting and retaining key Groups ability to control the supply, presentation and price of personnel and developing their skills its room inventory.
In order to develop, support and market its products, the Group The Group is exposed to certain risks in relation to technology must hire and retain highly skilled employees with particular and systems expertise.
The implementation of the Groups strategic business To varying degrees, the Group is reliant upon certain technologies plans could be undermined by failure to recruit or retain key and systems including IT systems for the running of its business, personnel, the unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures particularly those which are highly integrated with business in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a processes.
Disruption to those technologies or systems could failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the adversely affect the efficiency of the business, notwithstanding markets in which the Group operates are experiencing rapid business continuity or disaster recovery processes.
The Group economic growth and the Group must compete against a number may have to make substantial additional investments in new of companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Failure to attract pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the and retain these employees may threaten the success of the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge or the technology or system strategy employed may not be and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated sufficiently aligned to the needs of the business or responsive to knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
As a result, the Group could lose The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely impact customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial domestic or international travel costs or face other losses.
Additionally, failure to develop an The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could appropriate e-commerce strategy and select the right partners be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or could erode the Groups market share.
international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply or war, epidemics, travel-related accidents, travel-related and demand cycle industrial action, increased transportation and fuel costs and The future operating results of the Group could be adversely natural disasters resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other affected by industry over-capacity by number of rooms and weak local factors impacting individual hotels.
A decrease in the demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events may have an or other differences between planning assumptions and actual adverse impact on the Groups operations and financial results.
Reductions in room rates and occupancy In addition, inadequate preparedness, contingency planning or levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of the Group.
