16 Our approach to risk and risk management OUR APPROACH TO RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT International Powers principal activities The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf of are the development, acquisition and the Board, for ensuring: operation of power generation plants the adequacy of systems for identifying and together with closely related activities, assessing significant risks: such as desalination and district heating.
that appropriate control systems and other These principal activities are supported by a number of local, regional and mitigating processes are in place: corporate offices which carry out activities that residual exposures are consistent with the such as trading and treasury operations.
All of these activities have inherent risks.
During the business planning process, each business Our general approach to risk management and unit and functional group identifies and assesses the governance is set out below, followed by a description key risks associated with the achievement of its of the principal risks faced by the business.
principal objectives and their potential impact.
These assessments are conducted by all material entities.
Risk management framework During the year, significant changes in the risk profile International Power owns, or has equity stakes in, are highlighted through the business performance over 40 plants and some closely linked businesses reporting process.
Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types with the exception The centrepiece of our risk management activities is an annual, Group-wide, risk review.
This is based of nuclear power.
In terms of age, our plants range from those which entered service in the 1950s on the outcome of the business planning exercise, updated as necessary to take account of post through to those still under construction.
Overall, the majority of the portfolio entered service less than business plan events.
The assessments are synthesised into a Risk Report, that identifies all the principal risks, 15 years ago.
Geographically and economically the portfolio is similarly diverse, having a presence in which is reviewed by the Risk Committee.
Where risks are considered to exceed the Groups risk appetite, developed and developing countries with a variety of cultural, political and legal systems.
Our risk the Risk Committee directs which actions are to be taken.
The Risk Report is reviewed by the full Board management philosophy is designed to deal with the diverse set of risks faced by our business.
Schematically the annual Risk Report system functions as follows: To reflect the profile of our business we have developed a system that contains both bottom-up and top-down elements to identify and manage risks.
Review by full Board and Audit Committee Corporate level Review by Risk Committee Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the corporate level, with the Board of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
Acceptable business practices Synthesis by Risk Report and engineering and operational standards are working group set centrally.
Risk assessments by business Regional businesses units and functions Market and trading risk are managed regionally within the framework set at the corporate level.
In order to compare risks across the Group on a Political risks are also managed regionally with systematic basis, we segment our activities as shown support from the corporate centre.
In reality, certain exposures interact and other exposures apply to more than one risk area for Business units example, regulatory risk applies to all of our activities.
Risk assessments and action plans are mainly business Such cross-segment risks are assessed in each of the unit based.
Health, safety and environmental areas in which they occur.
compliance activities are also managed locally, albeit within a central policy framework.
Business managers Financial risks are accountable for managing the risks within their areas of responsibility.
This principle also applies to Market and trading risks the managers of our corporate functions.
Fuel supply risks There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Country and political risks Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the CFO and comprises Executive Construction and operational risks Directors, other regional directors and senior managers.
Health, safety and environmental risks Staffing and HR risks Actions International Power Annual Report 2007 17 Principal risks and exposures Risk Impact s Mitigating factor s Adverse conditions in our electricity financial volatility application of Group policies and sales or fuel purchase markets and or procedures set limits on trading reduction in profitability and counterparty default risk counterparty exposures balance sheet assets maintenance of financial headroom at corporate level structuring of project companies as stand-alone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance limits Group impacts Price volatility or changes in market reduction in financial resources maintenance of financial conditions result in exceptional available for growth headroom at corporate level trading credit support requirements reduced ability to hedge output trading via investment grade financial institutions for specific projects additional support is provided, for example Mitsui provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM assets in the UK Spreads outturn below expectation reduced profitability rolling hedge programme that typically aims to lock in margins potential impact on loan covenants 42% of our projects have longterm contractual arrangements or long-term regulated renewable tariffs shielding our overall profitability from market forces Group financial resources provide us with the ability to renegotiate loan agreements if so desired Challenging engineering, delays and increases in the price of long-standing relationships with all procurement and construction EPC greenfield development impacts major EPC contractors market conditions growth rate new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant Changes in environmental regulatory reduced profitability new environmental legislation in regime limit our ability to operate our developed markets introduced our fossil fuel plants with long-lead times we have established processes for securing the carbon requirements of our European business, which can be applied to other markets US and Australia as required 6.5% of net operating capacity is now made up of wind generation These risks are discussed in greater detail below, along with other factors that could potentially have a material impact on our business.
Financial risks At the corporate level we have a number of loan facilities which provide us with a prudent level of Our business can be subject to financial volatility.
financial headroom cash plus outstanding credit lines, This can originate from a number of sources, including less known obligations which can be applied to any project company, counterparty related events and aspect of our business should the need arise.
One example was the facilities will meet the short to medium-term funding insolvency of TXU Europe in 2002 which resulted requirements envisaged by the business.
Longer-term in the termination of the Rugeley Tolling Agreement funding requirements or funding for a particularly large a long-term agreement to purchase coal and sell transaction may be sourced from a combination of power, which caused a shortfall in revenues.
Our these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, capital structure is designed to address these risks.
such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
18 Our approach to risk and risk management Counterparty risk We manage our credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties by establishing clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of credit exposures in each of our key regions.
With respect to our treasury activities, the financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to arrangements with relationship banks and to commercial paper that has an investment grade credit rating.
Counterparty exposures arising from sale and purchase agreements with our customers are monitored and managed locally with assistance from Group treasury.
In addition, Group treasury manages the consolidated counterparty credit positions, with the active Loy Yang B, involvement of the global risk manager.
Further Victoria information on credit risk is included in the financial statements on page 155.
The actual choice of funding instrument s will Currency and interest rate exposures depend on market conditions at that time.
Project company borrowings are normally made in In merchant markets we are sometimes required to the project companys functional currency.
Hence provide credit support for our trading operations.
Fuel exchange rate fluctuations do not affect the financial and electricity markets periodically experience sharp stability of our assets.
In countries with historically price movements and when these occur this has an weak currencies we aim to have power purchase immediate knock-on effect on our trading credit agreement PPA tariffs denominated in, or indexed support requirements, which can be volatile as a to, a major international currency such as the US consequence.
The maintenance of financial headroom dollar.
This protects future returns against large and offers protection against escalating margin calls rapid devaluations.
which are payments we are required to make when Variability in interest payments can introduce further power prices increase above the contract price.
We mainly mitigate this Project development can, on occasions, also require risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using credit support.
This support can take the form of interest rate swaps.
A limited number of our PPAs parent company guarantees or credit support also have interest rate pass-through mechanisms.
In the unlikely event Overall, 67% of our borrowings were protected that credit support facilities are unavailable to support from interest rate fluctuations in these ways at the the growth developments that we are planning, this end of 2007. could require us to reduce our development activities.
In order to hedge the net assets of non-UK We consider it highly unlikely that we will have to operations, borrowings are generally in the same forgo opportunities as a result of this constraint due currency as the underlying investment.
The Group to the prudent level of financial headroom that we aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its nonmaintain and the availability of additional bilateral sterling assets in this way.
It is not our policy, however, facilities with banks.
to hedge currency translation exposures through At the individual business level we finance our projects foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
We use non-recourse finance exposes our sterling profits and our balance sheet as this insulates the Group from adverse events assets and liabilities to fluctuations that are not related occurring at the project level, limiting our balance to underlying business performance.
sheet exposure on a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Liquidity in the financial markets has reduced due to the fallout from the US subprime market and, although this may increase the cost of non-recourse finance and or reduce its availability to some extent, we do not believe this will limit our ability to refinance existing projects or develop new opportunities.
Other financial exposures and their mitigating factors are set out in this section.
International Power Annual Report 2007 19 For 2007 and 2006, average and year end rates of This type of risk increases from time to time, exchange to sterling, for major currencies which are for example, when share prices fall or in light of the significant to the Group, were: increasingly more onerous assumptions required by actuarial advisers to independent scheme trustees.
Average At 31 December The UK defined benefit pension schemes, which have 2007 2006 2007 2006 approximately 700 active members, carried out their US dollar 2.00 1.85 1.99 1.96 latest triennial actuarial valuations in 2007, which resulted in valuing the schemes at a combined deficit Australian dollar 2.39 2.44 2.27 2.48 of 12 million as at 31 March 2007.
Deficit repair Euro 1.46 1.47 1.36 1.48 arrangements have been agreed with the two sets of trustees and as part of this, up-front payments Czech koruna 40.43 41.51 36.20 40.85 into the funds of approximately 3.8 million were made at the end of 2007.
Future service contribution When one of our projects makes sales and purchases rates have also been increased in line with actuarial in a currency other than its functional currency this advice received.
gives rise to a currency transaction exposure.
In 2007, a strategic review of our UK pension Transaction exposures also arise when dividends arrangements was initiated and we continue to or other funds are remitted from our overseas consult with employees and their representatives to companies.
We match transaction exposures in ensure the right solution is achieved for the Group advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched and our UK employees.
No changes are being transactions as soon as they are committed.
We may considered which affect existing employees.
The use foreign currency contracts and similar instruments review has been initiated largely to seek to reduce the for this purpose.
Groups exposure to risk over the longer-term.
Further information on market risk, interest rate risk Financial processes and foreign currency risk is included in note 32 to the financial statements on pages 153 to 154.
We consider that we have an appropriate and robust internal control system.
During the past few years we Investment structures and contingent liabilities have reviewed our systems of financial control to Going forward, the complexity of the Group and its ensure they were able to meet the requirements of investment structures, together with the rapidly section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the growing body of tax legislation, will make tax planning year ended 31 December 2006.
Although, since and forecasting an increasingly complex and uncertain deregistration from the SEC in 2007, we are no process.
We closely monitor actual and potential longer subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have changes in tax legislation in order to assess the continued to maintain the same quality of controls, continued effectiveness of our corporate structures which continue to provide a comprehensive coverage and financial planning assumptions.
We are supported of our business.
by external tax experts in making these assessments.
In order to measure our performance, the delivery International Power has a number of actual and of our strategy and to provide an early warning Paiton, Indonesia potential liabilities, arising from certain tax planning of variances to our forecasts we monitor a number assumptions that have not yet been confirmed by the of performance indicators.
The principal financial relevant fiscal authorities and from ongoing legal KPIs are PFO, EPS and free cash flow, details actions, one of which dates back more than a decade.
of which are set out on pages 24 to 26.
We have appropriately provided for those sums that Insurance risk management we believe will ultimately be paid.
Our risk management processes assist us in the Funding of pensions obligations identification of events that can be partly or entirely The Group operates a range of pension plans mitigated through use of insurance, or which we can internationally, with the most significant defined self-insure.
Risks that we insure include, inter alia, benefit arrangements in the UK and Australia.
These business interruption, Directors and officers liability schemes guarantee their members that they will and property damage.
Where we are legally required receive retirement benefits related to their final to effect third party liability insurances these are also salary at retirement, which gives rise to a risk that in place.
Insurance providers recognise the robust our pension funds will not be sufficient to meet nature of our processes and this is reflected in the these obligations.
20 Our approach to risk and risk management Market and trading risks Energy market risks and counterparty exposures on our asset and proprietary portfolios are measured A significant number of the projects in which we have and managed using various statistical techniques.
an interest operate without PPAs and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces, which determine the price Fuel supply risks and amounts of power sold and fuel and CO 2 Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business.
In particular, the majority of our Most of our markets have robust supply infrastructures, plants in the UK, North America and Australia operate and other factors further enhance our position.
In order to limit our exposure to include: mines local to the power plant, fuel storage, market movements, we hedge a proportion of our dual-fuel capability and sourcing from a number of anticipated output by forward selling power and buying reputable suppliers.
Consequently, we have experienced forward related commodities including fuel, transmission Saltend, very few supply interruptions that have had an impact rights, capacity and emission credits.
The key risks facing UK on operations.
our market and trading activities and their mitigating factors are set out below.
We procure fuel under a variety of contractual arrangements ranging from long-term fuel supply Hedging activities agreements FSAs to on-the-day merchant gas Unhedged output is subject to price and volume purchases.
The principal determinant of our fuel volatility.
To reduce this uncertainty, we operate a supply activity is the need to match purchases to rolling hedge programme under which we increase power sales, both in terms of volume and price.
the proportion of output that is sold forward as the Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at power plants production date approaches.
Whilst we generally aim where we have long-term PPAs and predominantly to hedge a relatively high proportion of our output for merchant supply arrangements in our merchant the following year, this strategy is dependent on market power markets.
This strategy helps mitigate against conditions.
Due to market liquidity considerations the fuel price impacts, particularly in the current climate majority of our hedging activity is for a maximum of high fuel prices, and the spread is locked in on period of two years ahead.
the basis of operational profitability.
It is not always possible to exactly match the expected It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance output of a plant with power sales and fuel and other between fuel purchases and power production.
Mismatched positions have the is particularly an issue for our projects with PPAs, potential to result in substantial losses.
This potential where the associated FSAs often have minimum fuel exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which purchase obligations.
By structuring the purchases limit the potential size of mismatched positions.
flexibly and incorporating appropriate force majeure protection, we are able to mitigate this risk by In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out some ensuring, as far as possible, that the price and volume proprietary trading trading not linked to the expected obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror one another output of our power plants.
Our non-asset backed and, to date, we have never experienced a significant trading activities are limited in scope and any financial impact due to mismatches between our exposures are correspondingly small.
Framework for trading activities Country and political risks Our trading activities operate within a robust Most of our projects with PPAs are in countries framework of policies and oversight functions.
Trading with a significant degree of country risk.
In the past, and forward contracting strategies are continually some PPA tariffs have been reopened by our offtakers reviewed by regional and corporate trading and risk and renegotiated.
We do not currently foresee the management professionals, to ensure they are best prospect of further renegotiations but this remains suited to both local market conditions and corporate a general possibility.
A Group-wide oversight of our trading operations is provided by a Global Commodities Risk We address country risk exposures in several ways.
Committee GCRC which includes the CFO, the Country risk assessment is an important element of head of finance, head of trading and the global our due diligence, prior to participating in a project, trading and risk managers.
The GCRC acts under and we favour projects where international arbitration the authority of the Board, and delegates limits and is available for resolving disputes.
Once projects are authorities to local risk committees, which have been operational, International Power always strives to be established in each of our trading operations to a good neighbour, supporting the local, regional and oversee the management of market, operational and national communities wherever possible.
We also credit risks arising from our marketing and trading attempt to maintain good relationships with political activities.
The local risk committees include the institutions and our customers.
trading manager, global and local risk managers, regional directors and senior managers.
International Power Annual Report 2007 21 Power plants are characterised by extremely high temperatures, pressures, voltages and rotational velocities.
Providing a safe environment for people on our sites and in surrounding areas is a major priority.
We achieve a safe environment by using a combination of engineering and operational procedures and standards, provision of training, performance monitoring and by employing experienced staff.
In addition, we are currently developing a new engineering risk assessment approach to assist in the identification and management of the key engineering risks across the plant portfolio.
This will be rolled out in 2008 to further enhance our approach to risk management.
We are a minority participant in a number of projects and do not set operational standards in such cases.
In such circumstances we provide support, where appropriate, and attempt to use our influence to Deeside, UK achieve standards that are equivalent to our own.
However, our ability to influence partners varies.
The size of our portfolio dilutes the effect of a During the build period we closely monitor the dispute, at any given project company, on the Group progress of four major factors: construction as a whole.
Furthermore, non-recourse debt programme, cost, quality and safety.
Once a plant arrangements limit our financial exposure to the loss is in operation we monitor performance by reference of our equity investment and future cash flows from to a number of performance indicators including, the project.
Thus, whilst the loss or impairment of for example, the technical availability, net maximum assets in a project company might affect the financial capacity, thermal efficiency and forced outage rate.
performance of the Group, other operating companies would remain unaffected.
Health, safety and environmental risks Excellent HS&E performance is critically important Construction and operational risks for our business.
Risks range from enforced plant Our policy with regard to new-build is, wherever closures and substantial fines to damage to the possible, to award major projects on an EPC basis to well-being of our staff and to our reputation in the suitably qualified contractors.
EPC contracts transfer wider community.
the majority of the design and construction risks to HS&E compliance activities the contractor, and provide substantial protection through liquidated damages, in the event of failure At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by on the part of the contractor to meet contractual corporate, local and national standards and completion or plant performance targets.
Where regulations, and individual plants operate within site there is a project specific need to adopt a risk sharing specific environmental licensing limits.
We have an approach within the contract, this is done on the ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide assurance basis of deliverable technical and performance in this area and we closely monitor the accident assumptions and with due regard to the ability to frequency rate AFR and breaches of environmental manage these risks.
We supplement this contractual permits.
AFR and reportable environmental incidents protection with insurances.
The rapid growth in demand for new power capacity globally and rising raw materials prices have contributed to significant price increases and longer lead times for the delivery of power plant equipment.
If this trend continues, there is a risk that greenfield project development timescales will be extended further and, in addition, the ability to secure extensive commercial protection from the original equipment manufacturers will become more difficult.
This risk is generally greater for coal fired plant because of longer construction lead times.
We continue to work with the main suppliers, such as Alstom, General Electric, Mitsubishi and Siemens, with whom we have longterm relationships, with emphasis on our growth plans and long-term opportunities.
22 Our approach to risk and risk management Plant operating and monitoring procedures are At the global level there is uncertainty over what, if effective in ensuring that we comply with the anything, will replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate conditions of our environmental licences and change when it expires at the end of 2012.
Whilst we have experienced occasional governments in developed countries have introduced breaches of our environmental operating limits, there legislation to incentivise renewable generation to the have been no recent incidents that have posed a point where growth in renewable generation may significant threat to the environment or to our ability have a material impact on our fossil fuelled plants.
In response, we made major investments in renewable energy during 2006 and 2007.
Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate We have also dedicated resources to reviewing health and safety standards and to local regulations.
technology trends in order to ensure that we Health and safety performance is the responsibility of are well positioned to participate in the drive our plant managers, who are supported by local towards a lower carbon environment.
Our global health and safety manager is responsible for ensuring that our Staffing and HR risks corporate standards remain current and are The power industry has a history of long-term understood by all of our sites.
employment at plant and corporate level and staffing is not generally a day-to-day risk issue.
Environmental regulation Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of Our industry is highly competitive and we have to the long-term development of the electricity industry.
balance resources against the need to contain costs.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are We utilise our extensive experience to make these expected to impose increasing commercial constraints judgements and have the ability to mobilise people on our ability to emit CO, and hence our ability to at short notice to mitigate the risk of loss of key staff.
2 use fossil fuels to generate power without the use of To date we have not experienced any disruption of Hartwell, carbon capture and storage.
The impact note as a result of unexpected staff unavailability.
Georgia of carbon reduction measures is currently most We anticipate that terrorism may be a threat to our apparent at our European plants, where we are staff and assets in the foreseeable future.
In order to required to ensure that we have sufficient carbon reduce this threat we liaise with local law credits to support our expected levels of generation.
enforcement organisations on security issues and our Certain of our projects have change of law protection, corporate security specialist assists vulnerable sites to which enables us to pass on any carbon costs to the assess and reduce their exposures.
We also utilise the offtaker.
In such cases the economic impact of carbon services of a global security consultancy to ensure that risk is removed.
our risk assessments and physical security measures In January 2008 the EU issued proposals for carbon fully reflect local conditions.
If accepted, operators of additionally has the capacity to provide personal European power plants will receive zero carbon security services if required.
The EU further mandated substantial Certain of our sites have high union representation.
Both of these factors will We have not been affected by industrial action for inevitably impact on our portfolio in the medium several years but this remains a risk.
active dialogues with staff unions to ensure that we At the end of 2007 there was a change of are aware of any potential issues in good time to government in Australia and one of the first acts of mitigate our risks.
the new administration was to sign up to the Kyoto Protocol on climate change.
Australia is now committed to introducing a cap and trade-based carbon market similar to the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme EUETS by 2010.
Australia is not expected to have difficulty in meeting its Kyoto targets and the impact on our business is not expected to be great in the period up to 2012.
In the US discussions have continued at state level that could lead to CO limitations being introduced 2 some time in the future.
The absence of single, centrally sponsored, proposals decreases the predictability of final outcomes.
