Directors report - Business review - Principal risks and uncertainties Interserve operates in a business environment in which a Major contracts number of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible As Interserve focuses on large-volume relationships with certain to eliminate these completely, the established riskmajor clients for a significant part of its revenue, termination management and internal control procedures, which are of one or more of the associated contracts would be likely to regularly reviewed by the Group Risk Committee on behalf of reduce revenue and profit for the Group.
In addition, the the Board, are designed to manage their effects and so to management of such contracts entails potential risks including contribute to the creation of value for the Groups shareholders mis-pricing, inaccurate specification, failure to appreciate risks as we pursue our business objectives.
The Group continues to being taken on, poor control of costs or of service delivery and be dependent on effective maintenance of its systems and failure to recover, in part or in full, payments due for work controls.
Over and above that, the principal risks and undertaken.
In PFI PPP contracts, which can last for periods of uncertainties which the Group addresses through its riskaround 30 years and typically require the Special Purpose management measures are: Companies SPCs established by Interserve and one or more third parties to provide for the future capital replacement of Market change assets, there is a risk that such a company may fail to Among the market changes which could affect Interserves anticipate adequately the cost or timing of the necessary works business are: shifts in the economic climate both in the UK and or that there may be increases in costs, including wage internationally: alterations in the UK governments policy with inflation, beyond those anticipated.
regard to expenditure on improving public infrastructure, buildings and services: delays in the procurement of Among the Groups mitigation strategies are: targeting work government-related projects: market saturation in the Middle within, or complementary to, its existing competencies: the East: fluctuations in the proportion of our earnings derived fostering of long-term relationships with clients: operating an from associates and joint ventures: shifts in the political authority matrix for the approval of large bids: monthly climate in some of the regions in which we operate: changes in management reporting with key performance indicators at our competitors behaviour: and the imposition of unusually contract and business level: the use of monthly cost-value onerous contract conditions by major clients.
Any of these reconciliations: taking responsibility for the administration of might result in a failure to win new contracts in our chosen our PFI PPP SPCs: securing Board representation in them: and growth markets or to win contracts which are sufficiently ensuring that periodic benchmarking and or market testing are profitable.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by fostering long-term Key people relationships with its clients and partners and by operating in The success of Interserves business is dependent on recruiting, various regions of the world.
We constantly monitor market retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with conditions and assess our capabilities in comparison to those of appropriately skilled, competent people of integrity at all our competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we levels of the organisation.
The members of the management analyse the reasons for our success or shortcomings and feed team contribute to Interserves ability to obtain, generate and the information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
We have various incentive schemes and run a broad range of training courses for people at all stages in their careers.
With active human resources management and Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, we manage our people professionally and encourage them to develop and fulfil their maximum potential with Interserve.
26 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 Health and safety regime Damage to reputation The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group involves Issues arising within contracts, from Interserves management exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and of its businesses or from the behaviour of its employees at third parties.
Management of these risks is critical to the all levels can have broader repercussions on the Groups success of the business and is implemented through the reputation than simply their direct impact.
Control procedures adoption and maintenance of rigorous operational and and checks governing the operation of our contracts and of occupational health and safety procedures.
A commitment to our businesses are supported by business continuity plans safety forms part of Interserves mission statement and the and arrangements for managing the communication of subject leads every Board meeting both at Group and divisional issues to Interserves stakeholders.
Each member of the Executive Committee undertakes dedicated visits to look at health and safety measures in place at our operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns across the Group emphasising its importance.
Financial risks The Group is subject to certain financial risks which are discussed in the Financial review on pages 22 to 25.
In particular, Interserve carries out major projects which from time to time require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in the Group being unable to meet its trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on its banking covenants.
Interserve has policies in place to monitor the effective management of working capital, including the production of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts together with monthly management reporting.
Interserve recognises a pension deficit on its balance sheet.
The deficits value is sensitive to several key assumptions, and any significant changes in these may result in the Group having to increase its pension scheme contribution with a resultant impact on liquidity.
