Business review RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a initiatives involve the closure of a number of production facilities number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within and in certain instances the transfer of manufacturing and its control.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, engineering facilities to countries that have lower operating costs.
which could cause the Groups actual results to vary materially from The Group will commit substantial resources to complete these historic and expected results, are set out below.
These principal risks restructuring and turnaround initiatives successfully.
However, and uncertainties are disclosed under the requirements of the transition issues may cause disruption to the businesses and there Companies Act 1985. can be no assurance that these restructuring activities will ultimately be successful.
This may result in loss of market share and a The process used by Invensys to manage these risks is set out in deterioration in the Groups financial results.
the Corporate Governance section on internal control on page 47.
Invensys seeks to implement practical measures to mitigate exposure The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and to all forms of risk and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
environmental liabilities As a consequence of the disposal of a significant number of The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with respect businesses in the past the Group currently has liabilities in relation to its UK and US pension plans to environmental claims including the cost associated with the The interaction of, among other things, increased life expectancy, remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned by the Group, equity market performance and low interest rates over the past disputed taxes, retained litigation including personal injury claims several years has had a significant negative impact on the funding arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica, indemnity claims levels of the Groups pension plans including the Groups plans in both and other disposal costs in relation to businesses it no longer owns.
These developments have been exacerbated by The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation to the the Groups very high proportion of pensioners relative to its active remediation of vacant sites owned by it.
These risks are expected to workforce.
With respect to both the Group pension plans for its UK recede over time as warranties and indemnities in relation to past operations and for its US operations, any decline in the equity market, disposals expire, existing disputes are settled and remediation work improvements in life expectancy, changes in expected morbidity rates on contaminated sites is completed.
or future decreases in interest rates could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding contributions in excess of those All of the above liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, currently expected.
An increase in required funding contributions assumptions and contingencies.
While the Group continually could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial monitors these liabilities there can be no assurance that these condition and results of operations.
liabilities will not be substantially higher or become payable sooner than currently anticipated or that any of the current reserves in the The Group could be exposed to deterioration in its financial Groups accounts in respect of any such liabilities will be sufficient results if the restructuring and turnaround initiatives of certain or if currently unknown liabilities should arise.
If these liabilities of the Groups significant businesses, including the relocation of were to be substantially higher than currently estimated or if manufacturing and engineering facilities to low cost countries, currently unknown liabilities should arise, the resulting increase in are not successful the Groups liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the In response to increased competition for some of the Groups Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
products in certain markets, especially from low-cost manufacturers in Asia, a number of significant restructuring activities are in process Operating in global markets subjects the Group to risks or planned at operations in Controls, APV and Eurotherm.
The associated with changes in political and economic conditions objective of these initiatives is to increase competitiveness in these and in applicable laws and regulations markets by improving manufacturing efficiencies and reduce the The Group operates in over 60 countries and is subject to a broad operating cost base.
These restructuring activities and turnaround range of laws, regulations and standards in each of the jurisdictions Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 41 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED in which it operates.
More recently an increasing portion of its solutions products, in jurisdictions in which it may be unable to revenues are from customers outside Europe and North America.
obtain adequate intellectual property rights or is unable to enforce In addition a number of its production and engineering facilities its intellectual property rights.
have been or are in the process of being relocated to countries in Asia and Eastern Europe.
As a result Invensys has become Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the Groups increasingly exposed to changes in political and economic conditions, business to risk of loss laws and regulations or other factors affecting its businesses outside A significant number of the Groups businesses involve long-term Europe and North America.
Unexpected changes in any of these projects, that can take many months or even years to complete.
variables could significantly impair the Groups performance, as could These projects may be subject to delays and cost overruns due failure to comply with the relevant laws, regulations or standards, to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work which could damage the reputation of the Group.
stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials or skilled labour or labour unrest or other unforeseen problems.
The Group faces intense competition and failure to maintain Further, these projects may be particularly susceptible to cost a competitive and technologically advanced product range overruns and delays due to the engineering and construction could reduce its margins and revenue growth uncertainties inherent in the nature of the projects.
Any cost Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups overruns or delays which are not recoverable under contractual products and services are characterised by continually evolving terms may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, industry standards and rapidly changing technology driven by financial condition and results of operations.
the demands of the Groups customers.
Failure to keep pace with technological changes and product requirements in the industrial The Group may be subject to liability as a result of product sectors may result in loss of market share and lower margins.
liability claims The Group invests in research and development to develop new The Group has incurred and may continue to incur product liability technologies and products to sustain or improve its competitive claims, warranty claims or product recalls and associated claims in position.
the future particularly as some of the Groups products, such as fire alarms and valves, are safety critical.
Errors and defects in the However, all new technologies and products involve business risk Groups products, systems or applications could cause injury to in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, and persons or damage to property and equipment.
These occurrences potentially customer claims or onerous contracts.
Such risks may could result in claims, loss of revenue, warranty costs, costs and have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial damages associated with product recalls, litigation, delay in market condition and results of operations.
acceptance or harm to the Groups reputation for safety and quality.
The Group may not be able to dispose of any such claims The Groups business could be harmed if it is unable to protect successfully or effect any product recalls without incurring significant its intellectual property rights costs, which in each case could have a material adverse effect on The Groups intellectual property rights in the ArchestrA and InFusion the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
products are important to the future prospects of the Group.
If the Groups competitors succeed in reproducing these products at The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards comparatively low costs, or in improving the Groups products, for the Groups Rail Group business are unpredictable processes or know-how, this could have a material adverse effect on The revenue of the Groups Rail Group business depends on a small the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, number of large customers, such as Network Rail and the Public given the extent of the Groups activities worldwide, the Group may Private Partnership PPP consortia in the UK and other large rail be unable to protect itself from infringement of intellectual property, and mass-transport operators in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US.
particularly of intellectual property embedded in applications or New contract awards are generally associated with major transport 42 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Business review infrastructure upgrades and as a result by their nature are large and Invensys believes its future success will depend in part upon infrequent.
Funding for these new projects is frequently dependent its ability to retain and develop the existing senior management on governmental investment decisions and these may be affected by team and to attract further highly skilled personnel.
The Group has changes in political and economic conditions.
As a result the timing in the past experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining employees of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in with appropriate qualifications.
If the Group does not succeed volatility in the results of the Rail Group business and have a material in attracting and retaining skilled personnel, it may not be able adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and to manage and grow its business as anticipated.
The Groups Process Systems business is reliant on the capital expenditure requirements from the oil, gas and chemical sectors A substantial part of the Groups Process Systems business is associated with the supply of automation and information systems to the oil, gas and chemical industries.
Capital expenditure requirements from customers in these industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the international supply and demand and pricing of hydrocarbons.
These may fluctuate depending on political developments or conflicts especially in the Middle East, natural disasters, weather, economic conditions or actions by major oilexporting countries.
Consequently demand for the Groups products may fluctuate significantly based on short, medium or long-term investment assessments made by multinational customers.
There may also be a significant time lag between when the changes in supply and demand cycles occur and when this feeds down to the Group in terms of capital expenditure requirements.
As a result the timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in volatility in the results of the Process Systems business and have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
If the Group is unable to retain key personnel and hire additional personnel, it may not be able to effectively implement its business strategy and could experience delays in the development of, or increased difficulty in selling, its products and services In the past two years, the Group has been through a period of significant change in its senior management team with a number of changes at head office and within many of the Groups businesses.
Several of these appointees are new to the Group with limited knowledge of the organisation.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 43
