Principal risks and uncertainties Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Business continuity and acts of terrorism Supply chain The Group has a process for identifying, A major incident or terrorist event could Our stores are part of a complex supply evaluating and managing the risks faced impact on the Groups ability to trade.
The chain and the Group works in partnership by the business as described in the Group has plans to maintain business with our suppliers to manage the risk of Statement of corporate governance.
continuity in the event of potentially any delays or interruptions in this supply, The Board has identified the following disruptive events, which are regularly which may affect trade.
factors as principal potential risks to the updated and tested.
Pension risk successful operation of the business.
IT systems and infrastructure The Group operates a number of pension Economic and market risks The Group is reliant on its IT infrastructure schemes which includes two defined The economic environment and competitor in order to trade.
A failure in these systems benefit schemes.
These schemes are pricing position can affect the could have a significant impact on our subject to risks regarding the amount of performance of the Groups businesses in business.
The Group has controls in place the liabilities as a result of changes in life terms of both sales and costs.
Household to maintain the integrity and efficiency of expectancy, inflation and future salary disposable income is a driver of sales its systems which are regularly updated increases, risks regarding the value of growth.
Through development of our and tested.
investments and the returns derived from product ranges and investment in price such investments.
The pension trustees, Colleague engagement and retention and quality, the Group works to ensure in consultation with the Company, have The Group employs around 150,000 that we deliver value for all our customers.
commenced changes to the schemes colleagues who are key to the success As has been widely reported, external cost investment strategy to mitigate the of the business.
Good relations with pressures on oil-related costs and volatility of liabilities and to diversify colleagues and investing in their training business rates have impacted our business investment risk.
and development are essential to the although the Group has worked hard to efficiency and sustainability of the Groups Treasury risks mitigate the impact of these cost operations.
The Groups employment The central treasury function is pressures on our customers and the policies, remuneration and benefits responsible for managing the Groups Groups overall profitability through the packages are designed to be competitive liquid resources, funding requirements delivery of cost savings.
with other companies, as well as and interest rate and currency Regulatory risk providing colleagues with fulfilling exposures and the associated risks The Groups operations are subject career opportunities.
as set out in note 29. to a broad spectrum of regulatory Products requirements particularly in relation to The quality and safety of our products is planning, competition and environmental of the highest importance and there is an issues, employment, pensions and tax laws associated risk if they are below standard.
and in terms of regulations over the The Group has stringent product controls Groups products and services.
The Group in place and regularly reviews health and monitors regulatory developments and safety policies.
All suppliers are expected has a strong compliance regime.
Regular to conform to the Groups code of conduct reviews and audits are carried out in for Socially Responsible Sourcing which stores and depots to ensure compliance was launched in 1998 and covers fair and training needs are regularly reviewed terms of trading, protection of children, and addressed as required.
worker health and safety, equal opportunities, freedom of association, freedom of employment, hours of work and wages.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 27
