Global, Political and Economic Conditions Risks and Uncertainties Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
could have a material impact on the groups long term While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these performance.
regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and business risks associated with such international operations.
The group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements Technological Change and Patents including those for taxation, environmental, operational and Much of the groups business is focused on selling products competitive matters.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk which are technologically advanced or employ technologically which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits products are subject to continuous improvement as new on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that currencies.
The group is exposed to possible natural if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its catastrophe risk, for example through major earthquake or products will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat and flood, and possible terrorist action.
Management monitor such an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as well risks, maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending as lose it.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest business procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve while remaining in compliance with local and group leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient requirements.
added value to justify the long term investment required.
The groups results are also impacted by the status of Environmental Liabilities patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third party and potential obligations on the group to remediate patents.
All the groups divisions have significant registered contaminated sites, both those currently owned and, also in intellectual property.
Pharmaceutical Materials Division supplies some cases, those which have been sold.
Johnson Mattheys active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and environmental policies are set out on the companys website at can benefit when third party patents expire.
If actual patent lives www.
The group incurs costs annually in differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, such meeting these obligations and also maintains provisions for as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can affect potential liabilities.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover the groups results.
The group has established policies both to any liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties, obligations this could materially impact the groups results.
taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of infringement.
Commercial Relationships Legislation Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening governing the environmental or health impact of its customers in commercial terms could have a material impact on the products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most groups results.
significant for Environmental Catalysts and Technologies where Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to historic and future growth depends on global tightening of supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to emissions limits for on road and off road vehicles.
From time to time the group undertakes also relevant for some of the groups other businesses.
Process surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the Catalysts and Technologies manufactures products to remove board.
Some of the relationships are supported by long term contaminants or to produce particularly pure chemicals.
Colour contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
Technologies is supported by legislation phasing out lead, cadmium and other heavy metals from glass and ceramic glazes.
Foreign Exchange The development of the fuel cells industry is also impacted by Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the clean air regulations and the drive towards zero emissions groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant within both local and national legislation.
investments outside the UK with the single largest investment Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements development of such legislation its growth could be adversely in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation impact results.
The groups policies for managing its foreign globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can currency exposures are set out in more detail on page 20. achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if legislation slows.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Precious Metal Prices and Controls Competitor Risk A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world development in order to ensure the introduction of both new markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one products and improved production processes to allow the source for obtaining supplies for operations.
group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson remains competitive.
The groups policies for managing this risk are set out in more detail on page 20.
The high value of precious Litigation and Investigations metals means that any process losses could be material and The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
Johnson Matthey standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and employs strict security, assay and other process controls and standards could significantly damage the reputation and reviews to minimise any exposure.
Policies are reviewed performance of Johnson Matthey.
regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess the Audit Committee.
compliance with local and group policies, and provisions are made to rectify or compensate for any breaches.
In the Pensions ordinary course of business, Johnson Matthey is subject to The groups defined benefit pension funds are well funded with inspections and monitoring by certain regulatory or enforcement a net surplus at 31st March 2007 of 30.4 million see page 69. bodies and by the quality departments of some of its major However, this position is exposed to the risk of changes in customers.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover any interest rates and the market values of investments as well liabilities arising from such investigations this could materially as inflation and increasing longevity of the members.
The impact the groups results.
assumptions used in calculating the funding position of the pension funds are shown in detail on page 68.
These risks are Energy and Raw Materials mitigated by paying appropriate contributions into the funds The groups products contain a broad array of raw materials and through an investment asset allocation policy which has a and its operations require significant levels of energy, notably high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit based on electricity and natural gas.
Any increases or volatility in prices the results of an asset liability matching study.
and any significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw materials could affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey Customer Market Dynamics coordinates its global purchasing activities to obtain the best The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use possible prices and uses hedging and other contractual means these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
The where appropriate to minimise this risk and to benefit where groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of possible.
its customers end markets and their performance within these markets.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major Credit Risk automotive customer could negatively impact the groups Within certain divisions, the group derives a significant results.
The group also has exposure to the wider automotive proportion of its revenue from sales to major customers.
Sales sector as a whole which is served by a number of the groups to individual customers are frequently high if the value of divisions.
While global car production levels have some effect precious metals is included in the price.
The failure of any such on the sales of Johnson Mattheys products, other factors such company to honour its debts could materially impact the as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical groups results.
demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading Another key end market is for pharmaceutical products, with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
with Pharmaceutical Materials providing materials used in the Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly manufacture of controlled drugs and anticancer pharmaceuticals.
The Audit Committee receives a report Johnson Mattheys performance is influenced both by growth in every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts these markets and by the market share of its key customers.
due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2007, no single outstanding developments and market share at customers to prevent the balance exceeded 2% of the groups market capitalisation.
group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
