Business Review 14 Risk Factors revenues are derived from copper produced at MANAGING GROUP RISK the concentrating, smelting and re ning facilities Kazakhmys has signi cantly improved its risk at the Zhezkazgan and Balkhash Complexes.
framework over the past few years, with good If operations at these facilities were materially progress being made in better understanding reduced, interrupted or curtailed, the and managing the Groups signi cant risks.
Groups financial condition could be materially affected.
Kazakhmys has a risk management system in place to support the identi cation and management of Work is being carried out across the Group, with the Groups signi cant risks.
The Groups approach the support of appropriate in-house and third to internal control is business risk driven, with party specialists, to address operational risk emphasis on both business and financial risks as issues.
A combined property damage and explained in the Corporate Governance Report business interruption catastrophic insurance on pages 54 to 57. programme is in place to mitigate the effect of a catastrophe at the Groups main concentrating, The following represent the signi cant risks smelting and re ning facilities, and power stations.
identi ed by the Directors that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, COMMODITY PRICES strategies and prospects.
The Group is exposed to the risks of uctuations in copper, zinc, gold, silver and other commodity HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT prices.
Its revenues would be signi cantly affected The nature of the Groups operations means that by a material collapse in copper prices.
there is always the potential for accidents in the workplace and the possibility of excessive pollution The Directors do not consider it to be in the of water, air or soil.
interests of the shareholders to reduce the Groups exposure to commodity price uctuations.
The only The Group Health, Safety and Environment commodity hedging carried out is that performed Committee continues to drive a number of initiatives by MKM in order to mitigate the risk of an increase to reduce the number of fatalities and serious in the purchased cost of copper cathode, where accidents occurring and to further advance the natural hedging is not available.
The business standards of environmental safety and protection.
sensitivity to uctuations in commodity prices is A number of these initiatives are set out in the kept under regular review, and a sensitivity analysis Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 42 to 47. is set out on page 19. BUSINESS INTERRUPTION POLITICAL RISK The business of mining and metals processing Political instability or social unrest may lead to a involves a number of risks and hazards, including change in Government policy or have a material geological and technological challenges, re, ood, adverse effect on the Groups operations.
adverse weather conditions, equipment failure and loss of key inputs such as electrical power, which can Most of the Groups operations are in Kazakhstan.
Most of the Groups Kazakhstans Government has actively pursued a Managing Group risk KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 15 programme of economic reform, helping to make economic viability of projects is also dependent it the most politically stable and economically upon substantial expenditure that must be developed country in Central Asia.
of former Soviet republics have experienced periods of political instability, this has not been the case for The Group ensures that suf cient expertise, both Kazakhstan.
The Directors continue to view the in-house and supplied by third party specialists, political, social and economic environment within is brought to bear on projects throughout their Kazakhstan favourably, and looking forward, remain life cycle.
Furthermore, there are procedures enthusiastic about the conditions for business in in place addressing areas such as the budgeting the region.
and management of capital expenditure projects, in order to ensure more disciplined MARKET CONDITIONS project management.
Expectations of value in the natural resources sector SUBSOIL USE RIGHTS have been elevated by a long period of above average commodity prices.
The Central Asian Non-compliance with mining legislation and subsoil mining sector is experiencing unprecedented levels use contracts may lead to regulatory challenges and of activity.
Under these market conditions, the subsequently the loss of access to resources.
Group faces greater challenges as it seeks to identify suitable acquisition targets, to obtain the In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the necessary high quality capital equipment and State.
Subsoil use rights that are granted to the external support services, and to recruit and retain Group may be conceivably suspended or terminated top quality people, at prices which represent real if it does not satisfy its licensing or contractual value to shareholders.
obligations, which include periodic payment of royalties to the Government and the satisfaction The Directors believe that the Groups historically of mining, environmental, health and safety strong presence, reputation and knowledge of requirements.
The Groups management make resources in the region, combined with the progress every effort to ensure compliance with all mining made in enhancing its systems, tools and talent, legislation and subsoil use contracts.
place it in a unique position to thrive in this challenging environment.
TAXATION The interpretation and application of tax legislation PROJECT MANAGEMENT and regulations in Kazakhstan are evolving, which As new projects are identi ed, developed and increases the risk of increased tax liabilities or brought into production, many risks are engaged penalties with respect to the Groups operations that may detrimentally affect the Groups and investments in Kazakhstan.
For example, insuf cient or inadequate geological surveying may result in actual reserves The Group makes every effort to comply with tax and the volume and grade of ore nally recovered legislation, and works closely with the tax authorities falling below expectations.
In addition, the to ensure compliance.
