Business review Principal risks and uncertainties The group has comprehensive and well-defined control policies, with clear structures, delegated authority levels and accountabilities.
The groups risk management process aims to be For the first time, as well as producing a five Water industry competition comprehensive, systematic and continuous and year business plan, water companies will also be A legislative regime for market competition in based on constant monitoring of business risk.
required to produce a 25 year strategic direction water was established by The Water Act 2003 statement as a basis for consultation with but as yet has not resulted in any significant The board is responsible for the groups internal customers and stakeholders.
Ofwat has instigated control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
consultations and intend to carry out further The key milestones are: consultations later this year as to how to We classify principal risks in five categories: increase the level of competition in the industry.
Changes to the regulatory environment December 2007 Competitive activity carries risks for Yorkshire Changes in legislation Companies to submit 25 year strategic Water of losing customers.
Social influences August 2008 Changes in legislation Supplier markets Companies submit and publish draft business plans.
Water strategy Changes to the regulatory environment August 2008 to January 2009 In the summer of 2007, the Government is due to Yorkshire Waters price limits are set every five years Public consultation on draft business plans.
In setting price limits Ofwat make September 2008 aim of the new strategy is: assumptions about, for example, required Ofwat publishes industry-level summary of investment levels, appropriate cost of capital and key issues raised by draft business plans.
to improve standards of service and quality, Yorkshire Waters costs.
There are some mechanisms April 2009 through sustainable water management, whilst for addressing changes to these assumptions Companies submit and publish final achieving a balance between environmental between price reviews but, to a significant extent, business plans.
impacts, water quality of surface and ground the risk of such variations is carried by Yorkshire July 2009 waters, supply and demand, and social and Water until the next price review.
September 2009 PR09 Price Review Ofwat considers representations on Defra states that the strategy will provide draft determinations.
a timely, high-level steer on the Governments November 2009 water priorities in a way that will be helpful Ofwat publishes final determinations.
to the water industry and Ofwat during the April 20 0 forthcoming price review.
New price limits take effect.
The strategy will set out priorities, as opposed to details of specific policies.
Any resulting policy initiatives will be developed with full public consultation and will be subject to regulatory impact assessments where appropriate.
On 30 March 2007, Ofwat published its forward programme to 2010 setting out the timetable for the next price review which is due to be concluded in 2009.
Kelda Group plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Water Framework Directive As some aspects of the water and sewage The decision will add more than 50% to the treatment process can be relatively energy length of sewers Yorkshire Water is responsible intensive, this legislation has the potential for maintaining in the future.
to impact on companies energy strategies.
The costs of transfer and of maintaining these A Joint Committee of Lords and Commons has sewers is expected to be taken into account been appointed to consider and report on the by Ofwat when it sets Yorkshire Waters price draft Bill by 13 July 2007. limits in 2009.
Climatic changes The Government has launched a public The groups core activities, the provision of consultation to seek views on how the transfer high quality water and sewerage services, are should be implemented.
inextricably linked with the weather and therefore The Water Framework Directive WFD is the most any climate changes have the potential to impact Supplier markets substantial piece of European water legislation to on business.
The group is also subject to external market forces, date.
It requires all inland and coastal waters to where input prices can sometimes rise beyond the reach good status by 2015.
It will do this by As the groups resources are a mixture of water regulatory allowance.
A good example of this was establishing a river basin district structure within captured in reservoirs or abstracted from rivers or the fluctuation of energy prices in 2006. which demanding environmental objectives will be underground aquifers, climate change could alter set, including ecological targets for surface waters.
many of the variables in this complex equation.
The WFD therefore sets a framework which aims to provide substantial benefits for the long term Social influences sustainable management of water.
The group is subject to social influences and may be required to change its business practices This new Directive has the potential to drive major in light of regulatory changes brought about additional capital investment and increases in by stakeholder and consumer pressure.
Public and private sewers Climate Change Bill In February 2007, Defra announced that private In March 2007 the Government published a draft sewers, which are currently the responsibility of Climate Change Bill which sets out a framework the owners of the properties they serve, are to be for moving the UK to a low carbon economy.
transferred into the ownership of the nine statutory water and sewerage companies in England.
For the first time, the Government is proposing to set clear and legally-binding targets for reducing This decision follows an extensive review of private carbon dioxide emissions.
sewers which was launched in 2001 in response to concerns raised by householders.
A consultation In doing so, the Government is encouraging in 2003 revealed a high level of support for the businesses to make significantly more efficient use transfer and the Government concluded there of energy and invest more in low carbon fuels and was a clear case for action.
technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, wind, wave and solar power.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
