32 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Financial review continued to be drawn to support the general provision held in 2006.
This reduction was is partly hedged by local debt in China and corporate purposes of the Group including as a result of additional payments to the partly by forward foreign exchange contracts working capital requirements.
UK pension scheme 118.3 million was entered into to hedge this exposure.
Since the year end the Group has paid compared to a normal contribution However, it is the Groups policy not to entered into new committed revolving of around 40 million per annum and hedge the translation of overseas earnings credit facilities totalling 275 million with a increases in the discount rate used to primarily euro into Sterling.
In addition, number of banks, and a 25 million bank calculate the defined benefit obligation from the Group has a significant transaction committed term loan facility.
These new 4.7% to 5.3% as a result of increases to exposure arising on the purchase of facilities mature in March 2010 and are corporate bond rates over the year.
This products for re-sale denominated in US available to be drawn to support the was partly offset by changed mortality rates dollars.
Under Group policies, the Group general corporate purposes of the Group.
with an assumption that people will live companies are required to hedge longer.
This change increased the obligation committed product purchases and a Property by approximately 4% and ensures that these proportion of forecast product purchases During the year the Group disposed of assumptions remain in line with current arising in the next 12 months.
properties for cash consideration of 251 market best estimates.
Further disclosures Use and fair value of financial million including 198 million on the sale of of the assumptions used including mortality instruments In the normal course of seven B&Q UK large stores which it retained assumptions are provided in note 28 of business the Group uses financial the right to lease for 20 years.
Through the consolidated financial statements.
instruments including derivative financial this transaction, the Group took advantage A formal actuarial valuation is scheduled instruments.
The main types of financial of the current buoyancy in the property as at 31 March 2007 with the results instruments used are Medium Term Notes, investment market in the UK to finance its expected towards the end of 2007. loans and deposits, interest rate swaps, operational business at attractive rates cross currency interest rate swaps, spot going forward.
The proceeds of the Treasury risk management and forward currency contracts, and transaction were used to repay existing Kingfishers Treasury function has primary currency options.
Further disclosure on debt and to invest in Kingfishers worldwide responsibility for managing certain financial derivative financial instruments is provided store opening programme, including risks to which the Group is exposed.
The in note 25. further freehold acquisitions.
Board reviews the levels of exposure The Group owns a significant property regularly and approves Treasury policies portfolio, most of which is used for trading covering the use of financial instruments Risks purposes.
If the Group had continued to required to manage these risks.
revalue this it would have had a market Liquidity risk The Group manages its The Board considers risk assessment, value of 3.2 billion at year end, compared exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the identification of mitigating actions and to the net book value of 2.3 billion cash resources required to meet its internal control to be fundamental to recorded in the financial statements.
This business objectives and by promoting a achieving Kingfishers strategic corporate represents a 170 million increase against diversity of funding sources and debt objectives.
The Corporate Governance the prior year and a 249 million increase maturities.
report on pages 39 to 42 describes the on a constant currency basis.
Credit risk Credit risk of third parties systems and processes though which the The values are based on valuations that the Group deals with is managed by directors manage and mitigate risks.
The performed by external qualified valuers setting a credit limit using published credit Board considers that the principal risks to where the key assumption is the estimated ratings.
The exposure against this limit is achieving its objectives are set out below.
The average income yields used determined by taking account of the full The Board recognises that the nature and were 5.5% in the UK, 6.7% in France and value of deposits and a proportion of the scope of risks can change and so regularly Italy, 6.8% in Poland and 7.7% in China.
reviews the risks faced by the Group as Interest rate risk The Group manages well as the systems and processes to Property market value by segment its interest rate risk by entering into certain mitigate them.
interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Economic and market conditions Poland 11% France 36% Groups underlying debt instruments, The economy is a major influence on principally the Medium Term Notes.
Trends in employment, Italy 9% Currency risk The Groups principal inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels China 6% currency exposures are to the euro, the and interest rates impact consumer demand UK 35% Other 3% US dollar and the Chinese Renminbi.
The for discretionary spending on the home.
euro exposure is operational and arises Whilst predicting future trends is very difficult, through the ownership of the retail Kingfisher reflects the latest  businesses in France, Italy and Spain.
sourced estimates in its internal plans.
The Group holds a provision on its balance Balance sheet euro translation exposure is Furthermore, international expansion sheet of 54.6 million in relation to defined substantially hedged by maintaining a not only provides opportunities for benefit pension arrangements which proportion of the Groups debt in euro.
In sustainable growth and returns but also is a reduction of 185.0 million on the China, balance sheet translation exposure economic diversification.
The UK now Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 33 accounts for around half of Group sales, introduced, recognising the growing number investment rate, pay a dividend to France one third, and another nine countries of customers that want design, delivery shareholders and retain a healthy balance in Europe and Asia account for the and installation of the products they buy.
At a lower point of the economic remainder.
This year Kingfisher entered Examples of this continual adaptation cycle this balance is more challenging.
Russia to gain exposure to this exciting, and innovation can be found throughout Kingfisher continues to look for working fast-growing economy.
For more details the operating business reviews on pages capital efficiency improvements and ways see the Operating review on pages 20 20 to 29.
For more details see the to minimise the cost of store expansion.
to 29 and Customers and Stores sections Suppliers section on pages 14 and 15.
During the year, over 200 million was raised on pages 10 and 11. by selling freehold assets in the UK to help Innovation in big, developed fund freehold asset purchases in Europe Entering new markets businesses Kingfishers two biggest and Asia needed to support expansion.
International expansion provides the businesses, B&Q UK and Castorama Kingfishers credit rating was lowered but opportunity for sustainable long-term France, have reached market leadership remains investment grade quality and growth and economic returns for in two of the largest and most competitive is now described as stable by the credit shareholders.
In some instances the best markets in Europe.
The full year dividend payment opportunities are in less well-developed needed to keep these businesses ahead was kept at the same level as last year.
markets where demand is growing fast and of changing customer trends.
Both are of competition has yet to capitalise on the a size where constant innovation is more Crisis affecting trading and Kingfishers market potential.
reputation A crisis can come in many opportunity for Kingfisher but exposes it to Both businesses have now established different forms and it is impossible to new cultural, regulatory and political risks.
rolling change programmes where a anticipate and plan for every eventuality.
Kingfisher only enters new markets proportion of product ranges and existing However, crisis management programmes where the potential long-term growth and stores are refreshed each year.
During the are well established in every business and returns opportunities outweigh the risks.
year B&Q UK and Castorama France steps for identifying and dealing with Extensive research is conducted before revamped 11% and 7% respectively of a crisis, including internal and external entry and a strong management team their store space, and introduced new communication, are clear and have been is recruited from local nationals who contemporary ranges of kitchens and successfully deployed.
understand the local culture, market bathrooms key home projects for Internal controls are in place and are regulations and risks.
regularly reviewed by internal and external in some cases joint venture partners, are Ideas are regularly exchanged between auditors under the direction of the local also sought to mitigate risk.
New stores the two businesses and B&Q has recently business audit committees and the are opened as freehold sites to avoid brought in experienced change managers Kingfisher Audit Committee.
Disaster long-term contractual obligations and to from Castorama France to work in the UK recovery and business continuity plans are make country exit easier if needed.
Initially and help speed up the rate of change.
For in place and are regularly tested.
Appropriate only a few test stores are opened and a more details on the progress of B&Q UK and insurance is held.
For more details see the subsequent store roll-out is only committed Castorama France see pages 20 to 25.
Corporate Governance section on pages once the economic case has been proven.
39 to 42 and the Corporate responsibility Expansion in new, higher-risk developing Attracting and retaining the best people section on pages 18 and 19. markets represents only a small proportion Retail is a people business.
Each of Kingfishers overall invested capital and individual business has local initiatives in In-store safety is unlikely to rise to a significant level.
For place to recruit, train and develop the best The health and safety of all our employees more details see the Operating review on people.
In addition, Kingfisher runs and customers is extremely important.
Six pages 26 to 29. a number of cross-border senior million customers a week visit Kingfisher management programmes to retain the stores across the world and every effort Competitive product ranges, prices best international talent and develop is made to make their visit as safe and and customer service In retail the only leaders of the future.
For more details see enjoyable as possible.
thing that never changes is the need to keep the People section on pages 12 and 13.
Regulatory requirements vary from changing.
Customer demand for products country to country so management and services can change rapidly and in a Financial resources responsibility is devolved to each operating competitive market only those retailers that Investment in the business is fundamental company which appoints a local safety can keep evolving will be successful over the to achieving Kingfishers aim of providing manager.
shareholders with sustainable long-term facilitates the sharing of best practice and Kingfisher continually monitors and growth and returns.
Kingfisher is investing the development of Group standards anticipates consumer trends and the around 500 million a year expanding its which are often higher than those local activities of its competitors.
It works with proven businesses in Europe and Asia and regulatory requirements.
the best suppliers in the world to find the revamping the existing store base of its Fire safety is another key risk area and latest products customers want, at the developed businesses.
substantial resource is invested in fixed best prices.
As well as innovating product Across the economic cycle Kingfisher engineering systems and the training of ranges new services are increasingly being generates sufficient cash to maintain this our store teams.
