Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Risk factors R Ris isk k a ar re ea a P Po ot ten ent tial ial iim mp pa ac ct t M Miit tiig ga at tiio on n a ac ct tiio ons ns Dependence on recruitment The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and The Group has well-established recruitment processes and and retention of suitably compete effectively with other IT suppliers is, to a large extent, adopts a range of proven methods to maximise key staff qualified personnel dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its retention.
The Group also provides an infrastructure which personnel and an appropriate balance of onshore, nearshore supports the development of its personnel through a range of and offshore resources.
There is a high level of demand for structured career development programmes focused on each individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience in the IT key competency, which include succession planning as well and business services market, and an increasing dependence as leadership, talent management and personal development.
on smaller groups of key staff in key locations.
The loss of Our expanding corporate university is complemented by local, key personnel or significant numbers of staff, or the failure to tailored learning and development programmes designed attract a sufficient number of suitably qualified and experienced to meet the needs of each major business dependent on its personnel in our key onshore, nearshore and offshore locations, business needs.
could have serious consequences on the Groups ability to service client contracts.
Responsiveness to change Many markets in which the Group operates have been particularly To meet market demands, the Companys Industry Group or disruption to our business susceptible to rapidly changing technologies, regulation, is tasked with producing innovative solution and service processes, including macro variations in market economic conditions and fluctuations in propositions, essential to both stimulate new client revenue level economic trends and client demand.
Global trends, including offshoring and the opportunities and meet existing needs.
A proactive knowledge changes in the global changing economic position of India and China in particular, are management programme across the Group, combined with competitive landscape changing the markets in which we operate.
Failure of internal collaborative competency team development, helps to ensure systems or processes or inability to share information could lead that technology advancement challenges are met.
Systems and to us being unable to meet client requirements or deliver to new business continuity plans are also maintained.
The Group needs to be able to continue to respond and adapt to these pressures whilst, in a timely and cost-efficient manner, continuing to deliver existing products and services.
Failure to do so will be a risk to the Groups success.
Dependence on major clients A significant part of the Groups revenue is derived from large No one customer accounts for more than 3% of revenue.
and contracts contracts and framework agreements.
Whilst it is positive to generate increasing revenue by farming existing accounts and to focus on increasing business with existing customers, our account and sales management focus on maintaining a balance and on driving an element of new business with new clients.
Loss of authorisation or A portion of the Groups revenue is dependent on continued Alliance management is tasked with developing engagement accreditation from vendors authorisation and accreditation by certain vendors of IT plans with key suppliers that link both organisations at multi or disruption of key supplier software and hardware.
Without such service authorisations management levels and across multi functions, maintaining relationships and accreditations by these vendors, the Group may be unable a mutually positive and beneficial business arrangement.
to offer certain products and services.
Failure to maintain these authorisations and accreditations may also result in the Group failing to fulfil certain contractual obligations.
There can be no assurances that a vendor will not withdraw an authorisation or accreditation, which may result in an adverse effect on the Groups business.
Exposure to country and As the Group operates on an international basis, it is exposed to The Group adopts a balanced business and market portfolio to regional risk political, the risk of political, financial market, economic or social unrest endeavour to protect itself against many of these fluctuations, financial, economic, social, in the territories in which it operates.
In addition, there is the especially those that are restricted to individual territories and particularly in Europe potential for natural disasters and major terrorist activity, such market sectors.
Liquidity risk is mitigated by raising debt from and India as 9 11 in the USA and 7 7 in London.
These risks are generally a variety of sources and ensuring that the tenure of the debt outside the control of the Group but could still result in the loss is sufficient that pre-emptive action can be taken in the event of services that would prejudice our ability to respond to agreed of restricted liquidity in the financial markets.
Interest rate risk service levels or fulfil other obligations.
The Group raises debt in is mitigated by carrying a portion of the debt at fixed rates of the financial markets to fund acquisitions and working capital.
The risk is further mitigated by ensuring that the overall The Group is therefore exposed to a degree of liquidity risk.
level of debt as a proportion of earnings, and hence the level By carrying debt on its balance sheet the Group is also exposed of interest expense, is within Board approved levels.
Exchange to interest rate risk.
The Group operates in 36 countries and has rate risk of cash flows denominated in non-functional currencies revenue in a variety of different currencies.
is mitigated by using spot and forward foreign exchange contracts as part of an overall policy of managing foreign exchange risk.
54 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information R Ris isk k a ar re ea a P Po ot ten ent tial ial iim mp pa ac ct t M Miit tiig ga at tiio on n a ac ct tiio ons ns Increasing complexity and The complexity, variability and duration of solution and service The Group manages operational risk through the application of variability of client contracts contracts place risk management and control at a premium.
If process underpinned by a comprehensive, well-proven quality the Group fails to adequately assess its risks, implement the management system detailed in Cortex.
Communication, required controls or monitor its position diligently, any resulting training and adoption of Cortex by all staff are essential.
failure to deliver the contract could adversely affect the results However, Cortex is constantly under review, and feedback from of the Group, its relationship with the client or its reputation.
audits, lessons learnt and the capture of revised metrics leads to updates on a regular basis.
A more major review is currently under way to evaluate the pros and cons of making Cortex more prescriptive in terms of development tools and methodologies, and to evaluate the benefits of further automation.
Exposure to global market The Group is exposed to unrest in world market sectors, such As well as maintaining a geographical spread, the Group has a sector risk as finance, oil and gas, due to a range of factors largely outside well-balanced spread of business in all the major market sectors its control.
globally and is familiar with managing more local regional shifts of focus and resource in response to country market fluctuations.
However, a more macro level change in any one market could adversely affect the results of the Group.
Risks of a pandemic There is increasing concern generally about the threat of Business continuity plans are maintained in each geographic or accident a continental or global influenza or related virus pandemic.
location in which the company operates.
The Group has also An incident or accident affecting a key group of staff could established an approach to the pandemic threat and monitors impact the operation of the Company, and in turn confidence the World Health Organisation Pandemic Alert status.
An action in Logicas ability to deliver.
plan has been established should the alert status increase.
Damage to the Companys Logica enjoys a leading position in many markets and Our account and delivery management processes include both brand, reputation or position geographies based on our domain expertise, repeatable and active and reactive mechanisms to ensure delivery and that in a given market leading edge solutions and services, our reputation for technical management reacts to issues before damage results.
excellence and reliable delivery, and a significant number of longstanding clients.
Failure to deliver or loss of a client may lead to damage to our brand or market perception which could have an adverse effect on the Group.
Extending the offshore The market is increasingly demanding the ability to deliver The Group is focusing on and investing in global propositions, delivery model from services globally, exploiting the benefits of our growing global in increasing awareness of and in developing our processes and application management presence.
The ability of the Group to deliver services and known as Cortex, in our Management Information Systems and to software and application application management on a global basis from any one of developing our knowledge and know-how, and in introducing development a number of delivery centres and to achieve the changes more prescription, efficiencies and automation where possible.
necessary in a sufficiently timely manner and within normal business constraints is key to our success.
This is termed the industrialisation of design and development.
Exploiting the potential The Group has made a number of major acquisitions and Integration and divestment programmes are aggressively business benefits of strategic divestments which require careful management to achieve the managed by dedicated teams, and progress monitored carefully business decisions necessary integration and realignment and in turn the promised by the Board.
Improvement programmes are managed at benefits to the business.
Group level ensuring rapid cross fertilisation of knowledge and capability.
Regulatory compliance risks Given the enlarged Group, introducing further jurisdictions and Membership of our risk management and practice governance compliance regimes, the increasing breadth and complexity of committees has been extended to include the new subsidiaries.
compliance requirements in general and the increasing need Cortex is being implemented across the enlarged Group.
to demonstrate compliance, the Group needs to ensure that the various compliance risks are effectively understood and managed.
These risk factors are in addition to those reported in the 2006 Annual report.
