Operating and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding our key risks and developing appropriate responses to those risks is key to Anglo Americans success Anglo American is exposed to a variety of risks Treasury and capital risk management Commodity prices determined primarily and uncertainties which may have a financial The Groups principal treasury policies are set by by international markets and global supply or reputational impact on the Group and which the Board.
The Group treasury acts as a service and demand give rise to commodity price risk may also impact the achievement of social, centre and operates within clearly defined across the Group.
The recent strong commodity economic and environmental objectives.
These guidelines that are approved by the Board.
price cycle has been due in part to economic risks include strategic, commercial, operational, Treasury front office and treasury back office growth in China and other developing nations.
The principal are segregated and report to separate executive Any reduction in growth could have a negative risks and uncertainties facing the Group have positions.
The Anglo American accounting impact on commodity prices with a resulting been categorised into headline risk areas.
The department provides an independent control adverse effect on financial performance.
Groups approach to risk management is set out function to monitor and report on treasury Cash deposits and other financial instruments, in the corporate governance section on pages activities, which are also subject to regular including trade receivables due from third 65 to 69. review by internal and external audit.
parties, give rise to counterparty credit risk.
The key headline risks identified for 2008, The treasury operations of the Groups Further details of these risks and their potential impacts on the Group and the associate, fide Beers, are independently managed.
management are provided in note 25 to the mitigation strategies are summarised below.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk arising financial statements.
In addition, the Groups from the need to finance its ongoing operations capital structure and its capital risk management Key headline risks and growth.
As a consequence of its global policy is set out in note 25 to the financial operations the Group is exposed to currency statements.
Safety, health and environment risk where transactions are not conducted in The main exchange rates giving rise Mining is a hazardous industry and failure dollars, where assets and liabilities are not to currency risk in the Group are shown on to adopt high levels of safety management can determined in dollars or where assets and page 109. result in a number of negative outcomes: harm liabilities are not dollar denominated.
to our employees and the communities that live near our mines, harm to the environment Sensitivity analysis in respect of currency and commodity prices as well as fines and penalties, liability to Set out below is the impact on underlying earnings of a 10% fluctuation in some of the Groups employees and third parties for injury and loss commodity prices and exchange rates.
Anglo American sets a very high priority on safety, health and environmental 6 1 Commodity currency Average price rate 10% sensitivity US$ million issues.
Anglo American recognises the HIV Platinum $1,304 oz 152 AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa is a significant threat to economic growth and Palladium $355 oz 25 development.
In 2002 the Group announced 2 Coal $63 t 199 it would provide anti-retroviral therapy to 3 4 employees with HIV AIDS.
Anglo American Copper 323 c lb 333 also invests considerable resources in research 3 Nickel 1,686 c lb 104 and development to minimise the impact the 3 Zinc 147 c b 85 Groups operations have on the environment, for example seeking ways to improve energy 5 Iron ore $61 t 91 efficiency.
The Group believes it must make ZAR USD 7.05 278 an enduring contribution to the societies in which it operates, and implements principles AUD USD 1.19 95 of sustainable development.
In doing so the CLP USD 522 27 Group aspires to forge good relationships with its local communities.
GBP USD 0.50 4 1 Excludes the effect of any hedging activities.
Stated after tax at marginal rate.
Sensitivities are the average of the positive and negative and reflect the impact of a 10% change in the average prices received and exchange rates during 2007.
Increases in commodity prices increase underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the rand, Australian dollar and Chilean peso relative to the US dollar reduces underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar increases underlying earnings and vice versa.
2 Average price represents RSA-API 4 index.
Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across the entire Anglo Coal product portfolio.
3 Being the average LME price.
Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price received.
4 Copper sensitivity excludes the impact of provisionally priced copper from 2006.
At 31 December 2007 there were 140,137 tonnes of provisionally priced copper sales, marked at 302 c lb 2006: 140,098 tonnes, marked at 287 c lb.
5 Average price represents iron ore lump.
Sensitivity reflects the impact of a 10% change in the average price across lump and fine.
6 oz denotes ounces, t denotes tonnes, c denotes US cents, lb denotes pounds.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 55 Operating and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Supplier risk Inflation Exploration The strong commodity cycle experienced As the Group is unable to control the market Exploration and development of mines is costly in recent years has resulted in increased price at which the commodities it produces are and can be unproductive but failure to discover competition for critical supplies.
This increased sold except for any forward sales or derivative new reserves in sufficient amounts could demand can cause circumstances where contracts it is possible that higher inflation in adversely affect future results and the Groups supplies are unable to be fulfilled as required the countries Anglo American operates may financial condition.
Anglo American mitigates this or involves cost increases above normal result in an increase in future operational costs risk through a dedicated Exploration Division with inflation rates.
The Group has a proactive without a concurrent devaluation of the local experience and expertise in mine development.
approach to procurement that aims to minimise currency against the dollar or an increase in the impact of this risk through maximisation the dollar price of the applicable commodities.
Employees of purchasing leverage across the business.
Cost inflation in the mining sector is more The ability to recruit, develop and retain the apparent during periods of high commodity appropriate skills for Anglo American is made Contractors prices as demand can exceed supply.
difficult by global competition for skilled labour Mining contractors are used at certain of our Anglo American mitigates this risk through amongst resource companies, particularly operations to mine and deliver ore to processing a close monitoring of costs, implementation of in periods of high commodity prices.
In periods of high commodity prices, cost saving strategies and maximising leverage of strategies are implemented to mitigate this demand for contractors may exceed supply, of purchasing spend across the business.
risk including attention to an appropriate suite resulting in increased costs or a lack of availability of reward and benefit structures and ongoing of key contractors.
The group mitigates this Event risk refinement of Anglo American as an attractive risk through relationship management and Damage to or breakdown of a physical asset employee proposition.
including risk of fire and explosion, can result Employees in the key countries that Anglo in loss of revenue or consequential losses.
operates are unionised and risk of strike or Political, legal and regulatory The Groups operations can be exposed to other industrial relations disputes could have Businesses may be affected by any political natural risks such as extreme weather an adverse effect on results of operations.
or regulatory developments in any of the conditions.
Specialist consultants are engaged Anglo American mitigates this risk through countries and jurisdictions in which they to provide information regarding key event a process of constructive dialogue with unions operate, including changes to fiscal regimes exposures and recommendations to reduce and relationship management.
or other regulatory regimes, which may result exposures.
Anglo American seeks to purchase in restrictions on the export of currency, insurance to protect against catastrophic event Operational performance expropriation of assets and imposition of risk though conditions in global insurance Failure to meet production targets results royalties.
The Group has no control over markets mean this is not always possible in increased unit costs.
The impact is more changes in local inflation, market interest or economic at certain times.
pronounced at operations with a high level of rates or political acts or omissions which may fixed costs.
Mitigation strategies include efforts deprive the Group of the economic benefits Reserves and resources to secure strategic supplies at competitive of ownership of its assets.
The Group actively The Groups mineral resources and ore reserves prices, energy reduction, increased use of green monitors regulatory and policy developments.
estimates are subject to a number of assumptions, energy and sale of excess emission credits, The Venezuelan mining ministry has including the price of commodities, production use of cheaper alternative inputs, application initiated proceedings to terminate costs and recovery rates.
Fluctuations in these of group water management guidelines and Anglo Americans exploration and exploitation variables may have an impact on the long term business improvement initiatives to reduce unit concessions.
Further details are provided on financial condition and prospects of the Group.
In addition, the Group manages a strong page 41.
In South Africa, the Minerals and Petroleum project pipeline.
In doing so the Group must Resources Development Act 2002 provides manage the associated risk of meeting project for conversion of existing mining and exploration delivery times and costs.
rights to new order rights.
Conversion of these rights is subject to a variety of conditions Community relations and undertakings by the applicant, including The Group operates in several countries where employment, skills development and ownership ownership of rights in respect of land and by historically disadvantaged South Africans resources are uncertain and where disputes HDSAs, specifically 15% ownership by 2009 in relation to ownership or other community and 26% by 2014.
In February 2008, the South matters may arise.
These disputes cannot be African Department of Minerals and Energy predicted and hence they may cause disruption confirmed it would award Anglo American with to projects.
The Group has implemented a process all its new order mining rights, subject to to assess and manage community relationship completion of outstanding documentation, issues and will work to form good relationships by 31 March 2008.
Details of this conversion with local communities.
process and the Groups policy on reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources with reference to the Act are expanded on in the specific section on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates.
56 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review Acquisitions These factors could include: Restoration, rehabilitation and The Group has undertaken a number of changes of proven and probable mineral environmental costs acquisitions in the past.
With these, as with reserves: Provision is made, based on net present values, any such future transaction, there is the risk the grade of mineral reserves varying for restoration, rehabilitation and environmental that any benefits or synergies identified at significantly from time to time: costs as soon as the obligation arises.
Costs acquisition may not be achieved.
Rigorous differences between actual commodity incurred at the start of each project are guidelines are applied to the evaluation and prices and commodity price assumptions capitalised and charged to the income statement execution of all acquisitions, which require used in the estimation of mineral reserves: over the life of the project through depreciation approval of the Investment Committee and unforeseen operational issues at mine sites: of the asset and the unwinding of the discount Chief Executives Committee and, in the and on the provision.
Costs for restoration of case of acquisitions beyond a certain value, changes in capital, operating mining, subsequent site damage are provided at net the approval of the Board.
processing and reclamation costs, discount present value and charged against profits as rates and foreign exchange rates possibly extraction progresses.
Environmental costs Infrastructure adversely affecting the economic viability are estimated using either the work of external Inadequate supporting facilities, services, of mineral reserves.
Management installations water, power, transportation, uses its judgement and experience to provide etc.
may impact the sustainability and or The majority of other tangible assets are for and amortise these estimated costs over the growth of the business, leading to loss of depreciated on a straight line basis over their life of the mine.
competitiveness, market share and reputation.
Management reviews An example of the type of transportation risks the appropriateness of assets useful economic Retirement benefits that can have an effect on the Groups lives at least annually and, again, any changes The expected costs of providing pensions and businesses are described in further detail on could affect prospective depreciation rates post retirement benefits under defined benefit page 49.
Anglo American promotes early and asset carrying values.
arrangements relating to employee service development of strategy and alignment with during the period are charged to the income infrastructure owner operator, development of Impairment of assets statement.
Any actuarial gains and losses, relationships, participation in industry groups The Group reviews the carrying amounts of which can arise from differences between and lobbying to ensure effective provision of its tangible and intangible assets to determine expected and actual outcomes or changes services by key utility providers.
whether there is any indication that those in actuarial assumptions, are recognised assets are impaired.
In making the assessment immediately in the consolidated statement Critical accounting judgements for impairment, assets that do not generate of recognised income and expense.
and key sources of estimation and independent cash flows are allocated to an Assumptions in respect of the expected uncertainty appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
costs are set after consultation with qualified In the process of applying the Groups accounting The recoverable amount of those assets, or CGU, actuaries.
While management believes the policies, which are presented in note 1 to the is measured as the higher of their fair value assumptions used are appropriate, a change financial statements, management necessarily less costs to sell and value in use.
in the assumptions used would impact the makes judgements and estimates that have a Management necessarily applies its earnings of the Group.
significant effect on the amounts recognised judgement in allocating assets that do not in the financial statements.
Changes in the generate independent cash flows to appropriate Special items assumptions underlying the estimates could CGUs, and also in estimating the timing and Operating special items are those that result in a significant impact on the financial value of underlying cash flows within the management considers, by virtue of their size statements.
The most critical of these are: value in use calculation.
Subsequent changes or incidence, should be disclosed separately to to the CGU allocation or to the timing of cash ensure that the financial information also allows Useful economic lives of assets and ore flows could impact the carrying value of the an understanding of the underlying performance reserves estimates respective assets.
The determination as to which The Groups mining properties, classified items should be disclosed separately requires within tangible assets, are depreciated over a degree of judgement.
the respective life of the mine using the unit of production UOP method based on proven and probable reserves.
When determining ore reserves, assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
Any changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
The calculation of the UOP rate of amortisation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proven and probable mineral reserves.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 57
