MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 36 Board of directors Meggitts Board is characterised by world-class experience of UK, mainland European and North American businesses spanning multiple sectorsmany with global reach.
Sir Colin Terry Philip Green Paul Heiden Brenda Reichelderfer Stephen Young David Williams Doug Webb Guy Berruyer David Robins Philip Cox MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 37 Sir Colin Terry KBE CB DL FREng Philip Green Paul Heiden Non-Executive Chairman Group Corporate Affairs Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2004 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2001 | Nationality: British Appointed: 2010 | Nationality: British Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chartered engineer with extensive civil aerospace, Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries Chartered accountant, with considerable military and industrial experience.
and Administrators, with significant legal and experience in senior executive and financial roles compliance experience.
Current appointments Chairman of the UK Military Aviation Authority Current appointments Current appointments Safety Advisory Committee, Non-Executive Director Member of the GC100 and the Dorset Employment Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fox Marble and Skills Board.
Committee of London Stock Exchange Group plc Holdings PLC, and Non-Executive Chairman of and Chairman of Intelligent Energy Holdings plc.
Previous appointments AviaMedia Tech Limited.
Meggitts Company Secretary from 1994 to 2006, Previous appointments President of Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families after 14 years at British Aerospace in company Chief Executive of FKI Plc from 2003 to 2008, senior Association in Buckinghamshire, of which he is secretarial roles.
positions, including Director, Industrial Business Deputy Lieutenant.
and Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior David Williams financial positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Previous appointments Non-Executive Director Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
37 years in Royal Air Force, reaching rank of Air Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director of UU Plc, Bunzl plc, Marshal.
Since retiring, was Group Managing Appointed: 2006 | Nationality: British Essentra PLC and Chairman of Talaris Topco Director of Inflite Engineering Services, Chairman Limited.
of the Engineering Council UK, President of the Skills and experience Royal Aeronautical Society and the Council of Chartered accountant with significant experience Brenda Reichelderfer European Aerospace Societies.
Non-Executive Director Appointed: 2011 | Nationality: American Stephen Young Current appointments Chief Executive Joint Chairman of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited Skills and experience Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British and Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Skilled engineer and business leader with Chairman of DP World Limited.
considerable US aerospace and industrial Skills and experience Previous appointments experience.
Chartered management accountant with wide Senior financial roles including 15 years as Finance experience in all financial disciplines gained from Current appointments Director of Bunzl plc.
Non-Executive Director and national and multi-national businesses across Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Audit Committee Chairman of Tullow Oil plc until multiple sectors.
private equity sector consulting firm TriVista, May 2012. member of Technology Transfer Group of Missile Current appointments Defense Agency and Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman Guy Berruyer Federal Signal Corporation and Wencor Aerospace.
and member of Risk and Remuneration committees Non-Executive Director of Derwent London plc.
Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: French Previous appointments Senior Vice President, Director of Engineering and Previous appointments Skills and experience Chief Technology Officer, having served as Group Meggitts Group Finance Director for over nine Trained as electrical engineer at the cole President at two operating divisions of ITT years before appointment to Chief Executive in May Polytechnique Fdrale fide Lausanne and holds Industries Corporation.
Senior financial positions held previously Harvard Business School MBA.
Brings significant include Group Finance Director, Thistle Hotels plc experience to Board as serving FTSE-100 Chief David Robins and Group Finance Director of the Automobile Executive.
Appointed: 2002 | Nationality: British Current appointments Doug Webb Group Chief Executive of The Sage Group plc.
Skills and experience Chief Financial Officer Previous appointments Extensive knowledge and experience of the Appointed: 2013 | Nationality: British Chief Executive of Sage Group plcs French division.
interaction between businesses and capital markets Early career spent with software and hardware developed over a long career spanning investment Skills and experience vendors in French and European management roles.
Chartered accountant who has held senior international financial positions in defence, Current appointments Philip Cox CBE aerospace, engineering, technology and financial Chairman of The Asian Total Return Investment Non-Executive Director services.
Company plc and Fidelity Japanese Values plc, Appointed: 2012 | Nationality: British Deputy Chairman of Oriel Securities Ltd and a Current appointments Director of SVG Capital Limited, Pemberton Capital Non-Executive Director and Chairman of SEGRO Skills and experience Advisors LLP and a venture capital-backed company.
Plcs Audit Committee and member of the Hundred Senior management experience across a range Group of Financial Directors.
of sectors from manufacturing to energy.
Previous appointments Until December 2000, Chairman and Chief Executive Previous appointments Current appointments of ING Barings, before which spent 18 years at Chief Financial Officer, London Stock Exchange Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director Phillips & Drew and UBS, becoming Executive Vice Group Plc, Chief Financial Officer, QinetiQ Group Plc and Audit Committee Chairman of Wm Morrison President and Regional Head of UBS Europe.
and various senior financial roles in the UK and US Supermarkets PLC and Non-Executive Director of for Logica now CGI.
PPL Corporation, a US-listed energy utility company.
Previous appointments Chief Executive Officer, International Power plc, Senior Vice President, Operational Planning, Invensys plc, Finance Director of Siebe PLC, Committee membership Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Audit Audit Committee Committee of Wincanton plc.
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee Finance Committee
