MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 46 Nominations Committee report Chairmans introduction Terms of reference The Nominations Committee plays a leading role in assessing The Committee operates within agreed Terms of Reference last the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the updated in 2012 and scheduled for review in 2014 which are on Groups principal committees.
The Committee identifies the our website.
roles and capabilities required to meet the demands of the Responsibilities business and, with due regard to diversity, ensures that a The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition succession plan is in place.
Candidates continue to be considered including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on merit against specific criteria determined by the Committee.
of the Board and, in consultation with the directors, makes During 2013, a successor was appointed for Mr Young as Group recommendations to the Board on any proposed changes.
Finance Director, after the announcement on 9 January 2013 of Decisions on Board changes are taken by the Board as a whole.
his appointment as Chief Executive effective from 1 May 2013.
In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the Following a rigorous search process using executive search firm services of the Company Secretary and may seek external Russell Reynolds Associates, involving both external and internal professional advice at the Groups expense.
candidates, Mr Doug Webb was appointed as Chief Financial Board diversity Officer on 6 June 2013.
Mr Webb is a chartered accountant and The Board confirms a strong commitment to diversity including, was most recently Chief Financial Officer at London Stock but not limited to, gender diversity at all levels of the Group.
The Exchange Group Plc and, prior to that, Chief Financial Officer at Boards policy on diversity commits Meggitt to: QinetiQ Group Plc.
Mr Webbs extensive experience in senior E nsuring the selection and appointment process for international financial positions across a range of industries employees and directors includes a diverse range of including defence, aerospace, engineering, technology and candidates: financial services make him an outstanding appointment for the role of Chief Financial Officer.
A spiring to achieve 25% of Board positions to be filled by women by 2015 and monitoring progress in achieving this: As well as considering matters relating to succession and composition, the Committee confirmed it was satisfied with its D isclosing statistics on gender diversity in every Annual own effectiveness as a result of its 2013 evaluation.
Report see below and page 34 : and We announced on 27 February 2014 that David Robins will R eviewing this policy from time to time and continuing to retire from the Board at the end of the 2014 AGM.
Throughout disclose this policy in the Annual Report.
his time on the Board, David has always offered good advice and The Board remains committed to ensuring that the directors independent challenge, and we have certainly benefitted from his bring a wide range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds significant financial markets experience.
On behalf of the Board, and perspectives.
Our non-executive directors are from the I would like to thank David for his appreciable contribution to the UK, US and France, and have a range of different skills and Board and the Group over the last 12 years.
experience, from energy to aerospace, financial, technology and In 2014, the Committee will continue to review the composition of city backgrounds to an electrical engineer and a serving chief the Board and succession plans for executive and non-executive executive.
At 31 December 2013, 10% of the Board were female.
The Board will review our Board diversity target in 2014 in light of succession planning objectives and will publish any proposed Committee membership and attendance during 2013 changes in our 2014 Annual Report.
Meetings eligible Meetings External search consultancies Name to attend attended During 2013, the Committee used Russell Reynolds Associates Sir Colin Terry Chairman 7 7 to assist in the search for the Chief Financial Officer and Mr T Twigger to 1 May 2013 3 3 another senior financial appointment below Board level.
Mr S G Young from 1 May 2013 4 4 Russell Reynolds Associates do not have any other connection Mr G S Berruyer 7 7 with the Group.
Mr P G Cox 7 6 Mr P Heiden 7 5 On behalf of the Nominations Committee Ms B L Reichelderfer 7 7 Mr D M Williams 7 7 Mr Cox sent his apologies for a Committee meeting held on 9 January 2013 as he had, on that day, a board meeting of another company of which he is a non-executive director which had been arranged before his appointment to the Meggitt board.
Mr Heiden sent his apologies for the meetings held on 9 January 2013 and 1 May 2013.
In advance of Committee meetings, the Chairman discussed the matters to be covered at the meeting with directors who had sent their apologies.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman of the Nominations Committee 3 March 2014
