MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Audit Committee report 43 Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: M onitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and judgements made by executive management, reviewing the Groups financial reporting and accounting policies, including financial information contained in formal announcements and reviewing trading statements relating to the Groups performance: R ecommending the financial statements to the Board for approval and, since 2013, advising the Board that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, Chairmans introduction providing the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2013.
R eviewing the appointment, performance and independence of I chair the Audit Committee and as a Fellow of the ICAEW, Audit the external auditors and the role and effectiveness of the Committee Chairman of DP World Limited and former Finance internal audit function.
In 2013, the audit partner rotated from Director at Bunzl plc, I bring recent and relevant financial Mr Maitland to Mr Paynter: experience to the Committee.
My fellow committee members throughout 2013 were Guy Berruyer, Philip Cox, Paul Heiden and R eviewing the process for handling allegations from Brenda Reichelderfer, who attended all three Committee meetings whistleblowers: during the year.
By invitation, there were a number of other regular R eviewing reports from executive management and internal attendees including the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial and external audit on the effectiveness of systems for internal Controller and the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of financial controls, financial reporting and financial risk the Board, the Chief Executive, the Corporate Affairs Director and management.
The Board has overall responsibility for internal David Robins also attended by invitation.
controls and risk management see page 15 : and The key role of the Audit Committee is to provide confidence in R eviewing the Committees own effectiveness.
the integrity of our processes and procedures relating to internal Work of the committee financial control and corporate reporting.
The Board relies on The Audit Committee reviewed: the Committee to review financial reporting and to appoint and oversee the work of the internal and external auditors.
T he financial information contained in the 2012 Annual Report and 2012 full-year and 2013 interim results announcements The work of the Committee in 2013 is described below in detail and recommended them to the Board for approval: and included providing advice to the Board on whether these accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
2 013 external audit fees, and recommended them to the Board for approval: Committee membership and attendance Meetings T he external audit strategy memorandum and interim audit eligible Meetings clearance report for 2013: Name to attend attended Mr D M Williams Committee chairman 3 3 T he independence, effectiveness and reappointment of the Mr G S Berruyer 3 3 external auditors: Mr P G Cox 3 3 The internal audit plan for 2014 and regular update reports: Mr P Heiden 3 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer 3 3 The Groups whistleblowing procedures: T echnical accounting and governance updates provided by Terms of Reference the Group Financial Controller, Company Secretary and the The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference last external auditors: updated in 2012 and scheduled for review in 2014 which are A tax update from the Group Head of Tax and Treasury: available on our website.
T he non-audit services policy, and approved and published the policy on the Audit Committee section of our website: and T he effectiveness of the Committee and internal audit.
Since the year end, the Committee has approved the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and full-year results announcement and recommended them to the Board for approval and provided advice to the Board that the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee provided this advice having approved and monitored an enhanced review and verification process of the Annual Report undertaken by management and provided confirmation to the Board that this process was both followed and effective.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 44 Audit Committee report continued Significant judgements relating to the financial statements The table below summarises the significant judgements considered by the Committee in respect of the Groups financial statements: Significant judgements Action Goodwill and other intangible The principal judgements are managements determination of the level at which impairment testing assets arising on an should be performed including the change in the year whereby certain business units are now acquisition aggregated as Cash Generating Units CGUs, the achievability of CGU business plans and therefore future cash flows and the appropriateness of the discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Committee addressed this through consideration of a report from management setting out the basis for the assumptions and providing a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and an analysis of the headroom for each CGU.
The Committee agreed the assumptions made by management were appropriate and that no impairment was required.
Development costs The Committee considered the method of testing for potential impairment used by management, the and programme reasonableness of assumptions used on specific programmes with limited headroom and the aggregation participation costs of related intangible assets at an aircraft platform level.
The Committee addressed this through consideration of a report from management covering these areas, exposure to different platforms and a sensitivity analysis on specific programmes.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value of deferred costs appropriate.
Provision for environmental The key areas reviewed by the Committee were the ongoing environmental liabilities relating to and legal matters historic sites, the impact of the administrative settlement with the US Government regarding historic export violations and other litigation matters.
The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for the judgements made on each of these items and the extent to which this was supported by third party legal and other specialist advice.
Additionally, the Board met separately with internal legal counsel and received reports from the Group Corporate Affairs Director regarding the above matters and these discussions were shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee agreed with the judgements made by management.
Provision for onerous The key areas reviewed by the Committee were the issue relating to the supply from a vendor of contracts non-conforming raw material identified in the year and judgements made by management relating to selling prices, product quantities and unit costs on a small number of onerous production contracts.
The Committee considered a report from management setting out the bases for the judgements made on each of these items.
Additionally, sensitivities were discussed on assumptions which were not contractually agreed at the balance sheet date.
The Committee agreed with the accounting treatment adopted.
Retirement benefit Assumptions on mortality, inflation and the rates at which scheme liabilities are discounted can have a obligations significant impact on the value at which retirement benefit obligations are included in the financial statements.
The Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis on which the 2013 assumptions had been determined and benchmarking the Groups assumptions used in the 2012 consolidated financial statements against those disclosed by other large corporate entities.
The Committee concluded that the assumptions recommended, and which were supported by third party actuarial advice, were appropriate.
Income taxes Judgements have to be made by management on the tax treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate tax determination being known.
In determining the appropriateness of the estimates made, the Committee considered a report from management setting out the basis for the judgements and also met with the Groups independent tax advisors, Deloitte LLP, during the year.
The Committee also discussed with management the basis for determining the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities were offset against one another in both the current and prior accounting period.
The Committee concluded that the position taken was appropriate.
Treatment of exceptional The Audit Committee discussed the treatment and disclosure of items included within exceptional operating items operating items.
In particular, the Committee discussed the treatment of the issue relating to the supply from a vendor of non-conforming raw material and agreed that the nature of the item and its significance was such that it should be treated as an exceptional operating item.
The Committee also considered the treatment of other exceptional items and noted they were treated appropriately and consistently year on year.
The Committee concluded that the treatment and disclosure of exceptional operating items was appropriate.
The Committee also discussed each of the above judgements with the external auditors in reaching their conclusions.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 45 Key areas of oversight fee.
Fees paid related to services permitted to be provided by PwC under the Groups policy on non-audit services.
External audit The external auditors are  LLP PwC The Groups policy on non-audit services covers which services who were appointed as Group auditors on 2 October 2003 after can be provided and which generally cannot be provided for a competitive tender.
There are no contractual obligations example internal audit services, tax planning.
The full policy is restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
The lead audit partner is Mr A Paynter whose appointment in On balance, the Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of this role commenced with the audit for the financial year ended audit-related and non-audit fees are not material relative to the 31 December 2013.
Mr Paynter has had no previous involvement income of the office of PwC conducting the audit or PwC as a with the Group in any capacity.
whole and therefore the objectivity and independence of the external auditors was not compromised.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of PwC and the external audit process using a questionnaire and a Committee Internal audit discussion on the responses to the questionnaire.
The Committee The Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan which is was satisfied with PwCs performance and the external audit developed according to a risk assessment process and ensures process and that they had employed an appropriate level of that adequate resources are available to execute the plan.
At professional challenge in fulfilling their role.
The Committee has each meeting, the Committee receives a status update on the determined, on the basis of the satisfactory outcome of the audit programme and reviews, discusses and challenges any evaluation, that the external audit will not be subject to tender significant issues arising and monitors implementation by the in 2014.
It has recommended that the Board submit the business of the recommendations made.
All significant Group re-appointment of PwC to shareholders for approval at the sites are visited by internal audit at least every three years.
2013, internal audits were carried out at a number of Group sites, including pre and post-SAP implementation audits and the The Committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative annual audit of the finance shared service centres.
It was also proposals on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the agreed that additional IT areas would be added to the scope of Competition Commission, and will implement them when they internal audit in 2014. become final.
These proposals have effectively superseded the comply-or-explain provision in the Code, which would have applied The Committee met internal audit without executive to the Company for the first time this year.
The FRC plans to management present.
No concerns were raised at the meeting withdraw this tendering provision during 2014.
Subject to the and it was confirmed that internal audit had been able to carry changing regulatory regime and the Committee continuing to be out their work and offer constructive challenge to executive satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditors, which they will management during the year.
consider annually, the Group does not expect to put the external The Committee considered the effectiveness of internal audit audit services out for tender before the end of the current audit and confirmed that they were satisfied.
partner rotation period in 2018, i. e. after the audit for the financial Whistleblowing year ending 31 December 2017.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the process for The Committee met with PwC without executive management handling allegations from whistleblowers and has confirmed that present and there were no concerns raised at that meeting.
It it is satisfied with the Groups process.
Whistleblowing is covered was confirmed that the external auditors had been able to offer under our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy, which is available rigorous and constructive challenge to executive management on our website.
The Group sponsors an independently operated and monitored Non-audit services Ethics Line, enabling employees to report concerns about The Group places great importance on the independence of its possible misconduct, with proportionate and independent external auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee agrees the fees paid to external reports are reviewed regularly by the Ethics and Trade auditors for their services as auditors and is required to approve, Compliance Committee of the Board and the Audit Committee is in advance, any fees to the external auditors for non-audit responsible for reviewing whistleblowing procedures annually.
services in excess of 0.1 million.
Details of the fees paid for On behalf of the Audit Committee audit services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be found in note 8 to the financial statements.
The fees paid for non-audit services in 2013 were 0.1 million 6% of the total audit David Williams Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 March 2014
