MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 38 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP Our governance framework Board of directors Sir Colin Terry Chairman Three executive directors Six non-executive directors Creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value Board committees Remuneration Audit Nominations Five independent Five independent Chairman, Chief Executive and five non-executive directors non-executive directors independent non-executive directors Determines the reward strategy for the Monitors the integrity of the Groups Ensures the Board and senior management executive directors and senior financial statements and the effectiveness team have the appropriate skills, knowledge management, to align their interests with of the external and internal auditors and experience to operate effectively and to those of the shareholders deliver the Groups strategy Ethics and trade compliance Finance Chairman and three Three executive directors executive directors Ensures the implementation and application Approves treasury-related activity, of the Ethics and Business Conduct and insurance, and other matters delegated Trade Compliance policies and programmes to it by the Board Management committees Executive Board Operations Board Commercial Committee Three executive directors, the Chief The Chief Operating Officer Three executive directors, Chief Operating Officer and four senior and five divisional directors Operating Officer and one Executive executives Board member Assists the Chief Executive with the Assists the Chief Operating Officer to Reviews approves bids and proposals development and implementation of the manage the Groups operations and and any other commercial activity Groups strategy, the management of the discharge the responsibilities delegated business and the discharge of by the Executive Board responsibilities delegated by the Board MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 39 The role of the Board In advance of any Board meetings impacted by the absence of The Board retains full and effective control of the Group and directors, the Chairman discussed the matters to be covered at is collectively responsible for its success.
It sets the Groups the meeting with, and ascertained the views of, those directors.
strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place to achieve Chairman the Groups objectives and reviews performance regularly.
S ir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on appointment The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values and as Chairman on 1 July 2004. standards and for ensuring obligations to shareholders, T he roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate employees and others are met.
and a clear division of responsibilities has been approved and There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board last agreed in writing by the Board.
These were reviewed and updated in 2012 which sets out the matters on which the Board updated by the Board in 2013. must make the final decision: these include, for example, T he Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda changes to the Groups capital structure, acquisitions and and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of disposals above a certain threshold, approval of results agenda items including strategic issues : leading the Board: announcements, annual reports and dividends.
If a decision is and ensuring its effectiveness.
not reserved for the Board, then authority lies, in accordance T he Chairman facilitates the contribution of non-executive with an authorisation policy, with a Board committee, directors and oversees the relationship between them and the management committee, the Chief Executive or other executive executive directors.
The Chairman holds meetings with other director, divisional president or site director general manager.
non-executive directors without executive directors present.
Board membership and attendance during 2013 T he Chairman is responsible for ensuring directors receive The Board met nine times in 2013 seven scheduled meetings, accurate, timely and clear information and is satisfied that shown in the table below, and two unscheduled meetings.
In effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive advance of any Board meetings impacted by the absence of and Chief Financial Officer, is undertaken with shareholders.
directors, the Chairman discussed the matters to be covered at the meeting with, and ascertained the views of, those directors T he Chairman agrees a personalised approach to the training sending their apologies.
and development of each director and reviews this regularly.
Meetings eligible Meetings Senior Independent Director 1 Name Title to attend attended The role of Mr Williams, as Senior Independent Director, is to: Sir Colin Terry Chairman 7 7 M ake himself available to shareholders if they have concerns Mr G S Berruyer Non-executive director 7 7 that cannot be resolved through normal channels: 2 Mr P G Cox Non-executive director 7 7 1 Mr P E Green Corporate Affairs Director 7 6 C hair the Nominations Committee when it is considering the 2 Mr P Heiden Non-executive director 7 7 Chairman of the Boards succession: and Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-executive director 7 7 M eet with the non-executive directors at least once a year 1 Mr D A Robins Non-executive director 7 6 to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Mr T Twigger Chief Executive to 1 May 2013 3 3 Non-executive directors Mr D R Webb Chief Financial Officer T he non-executive directors play a full part by constructively from 6 June 2013 4 4 challenging and contributing to the development of the Groups Mr D M Williams Non-executive director 7 7 strategy.
Mr S G Young Group Finance Director to 1 May 2013 T he non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of Chief Executive executive management and monitor the reporting of the from 1 May 2013 7 7 Groups performance, the integrity of financial information 1 and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk All of the directors attended the scheduled meetings during the year, with the exception of Mr Green who sent his apologies for the meeting management systems.
held in June 2013 as he was undergoing medical treatment and Mr T he non-executive directors are responsible for determining Robins who was unable to attend the meeting held in February 2013 appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors owing to overseas travel.
and participating in the selection and recruitment of new 2 There were also two unscheduled meetings held during the year, which directors and succession planning.
were attended by all of the directors eligible to attend, except Mr Cox T he terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive and Mr Heiden who sent their apologies for one unscheduled meeting in January 2013. directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 40 Corporate governance report continued Company Secretary Effectiveness The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is Composition a matter for the Board.
The Board considers it has a good balance of executive The work of the Board in 2013 and non-executive directors, is of an appropriate size and During the year, the Board approved the acquisition of Piezotech includes the independence, skills, experience and knowledge LLC and the disposal of Meggitt Addison, Inc. and the Sunbank to enable the directors to discharge their respective duties and Family of Companies LLC.
It also approved the appointment of responsibilities effectively.
All of the non-executive directors Mr Young as Chief Executive and Mr Webb as Chief Financial are considered independent under the Code, with the exception Officer.
It received regular reports from executive management of Mr Robins who has served on the Board for over nine years.
on strategy and business performance, financial performance Mr Robins is retiring from the Board after the 2014 AGM.
including treasury activity and corporate affairs including risk, All non-executive directors are asked to join the Audit, legal and compliance.
The Board visited a number of facilities Remuneration and Nominations Committees on appointment.
during the year, across all business divisions.
The Board Chairmanship of Committees is considered during discussions received and discussed: on composition and succession.
No one other than Committee A n update on Group strategy, including market and competitive chairmen and members are entitled to attend the meetings, environment and strategic priorities: although others may be invited.
Committee chairmen, members and regular meeting invitees are noted in the respective T he Group budget for 2014: Committee reports below.
B usiness unit and functional updates and presentations on Each of these Committees has specific written terms of senior executive succession, operations, IT security, and reference issued by the Board and adopted by the relevant investor relations: Committee.
These are available on our website.
All Committee R eports on internal control, risk management and going chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their Committees concern: and at the next meeting of the Board.
Where appropriate, the Committee chairmen also make recommendations to the Board R eports on the activities of its committees.
in respect of appropriate matters, for example, the fairness, The Board reviewed and approved: balance and understandability of the Annual Report.
Further details of the composition and operation of these Committees T he 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2012 full-year are set out in the Audit Committee report, the Nominations results announcement and the 2013 interim results Committee report and Directors remuneration report.
announcement: Appointments to the Board I nterim management statements released in May and There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the November: appointment of new directors to the Board.
Full details are R ecommendations to shareholders on the final dividend available in the Nominations Committee report set out on page payment in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 and 46 which also provides details of the role and activities of the the interim dividend payment for the year ended 31 December Nominations Committee.
2013: Commitment F ees payable to the Groups auditors and a recommendation to The letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive shareholders on their reappointment: directors set out the expected time commitment required of them and are available for inspection by any person during A mended terms of reference for the role of Chairman and normal business hours at the Companys registered office and Chief Executive: and at the AGM.
Other significant commitments of the Chairman R evisions to the Groups Ethics and Business Conduct Policy, and non-executive directors are disclosed on appointment and Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy.
Since the year-end up to the date of the Annual Report, the Board In 2013, the Chairman became chairman of AviaMediaTech has approved the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2013 Limited.
Sir Colin confirms that he continues to have sufficient full-year results announcement and the proposed final dividend time to discharge his role as Chairman of the Board.
in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013.
During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 41 Development Accountability The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge Financial and business reporting its duties.
All new directors receive an appropriate induction to The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors the business, including meetings with other directors, senior responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and the financial management, auditors, brokers and other professional advisors statements page 70 and a statement by the auditors concerning as appropriate, site visits and a comprehensive induction pack.
The directors also report that the We will continue to enhance the induction process as feedback business is a going concern page 30, detail on how the Group is received and incorporated from recently recruited directors.
generates and preserves value over the longer term the The Company Secretary facilitates the induction of new directors business model and the Groups strategy for delivering its and assists with professional development where required.
objectives in the Strategic report pages 1 to 34.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and Internal control and risk management their training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal process.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the Group is control and for maintaining and reviewing its financial and facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the operational effectiveness.
The system of internal control is business and visits to the Groups operating facilities.
Resources designed to manage, but not to eliminate, the risk of failure to are available to all directors for the purposes of developing and achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but not updating their knowledge and capabilities.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system of internal controls includes: Information and support The Chairman is responsible for ensuring the directors receive A n on-going risk management process for identifying, accurate, timely and clear information.
The Company Secretary evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Group that was in place for 2013 and up to the date of approval Board and committees and between senior management and of the Annual Report.
This process is regularly reviewed by the non-executive directors.
The Board members have regular Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The risk discussions about their information and support requirements, management process is described in more detail on pages 15 and are involved in setting the annual Board schedule.
to 17: The Board and its committees have been provided with sufficient A n effective internal audit function which, primarily, performs resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have had business unit reviews by rotation including finance, IT, HR, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary ethics and the bid process : who is responsible to the Board for advising on all governance C ompliance programmes and external audits including trade matters.
The Board allows all directors to take external compliance, ethics, anti-corruption, health, safety and independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
environmental : Board performance evaluation A b usiness performance review process including financial, In 2013, the Board evaluated its own effectiveness, together operational and compliance performance : with the effectiveness of the Chairman, individual directors, its committees, auditors and remuneration advisers and agreed P rocess controls, including the bid process, programme its objectives for 2014.
The effectiveness reviews covered execution, financial and IT security: strategy, risk management, the annual Board schedule, The forecasting, budget and strategic plan processes: composition, succession, the appointment process, diversity, A w histleblowing line to enable employees to raise concerns: remuneration, audit and open channels of communication.
and The evaluation in 2013 was undertaken internally applying Group insurance and business continuity programmes.
lessons learned from the externally facilitated review in 2012.
The 2013 evaluation was carried out using questionnaires and The Board and Audit Committee applied the following processes group and individual discussions.
The Board continues to be in 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report in thoroughly engaged with the review process, with the main order to review the effectiveness of the system of internal findings and recommendations of the 2013 evaluation identifying controls: the need to enhance strategy reviews and the risk management Reviews of the risk management process and risk register: process and implement continued improvements to the annual Board schedule, adding more facility visits and operational and W ritten and verbal reports to the Audit Committee from functional presentations.
internal and external audit on progress with internal control activities, including: reviews of business processes and activities, including action plans to address any identified control weaknesses or recommendations for improvements to controls or processes: the results of internal audits: internal control recommendations made by the external auditors: and follow-up actions from previous internal control recommendations: MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 42 Corporate governance report continued R egular compliance reports from the Corporate Affairs Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Director: The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
R egular reports on the state of the business from the Chief Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide Executive and Chief Financial Officer: shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote for or against resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, A p resentation on IT security activities and plans: against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars R eview and approval of the strategic plan and budget: and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is made available after the meeting and on the Groups W ritten report to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of website.
The proxy form and the voting results announcement whistleblowing procedures: and make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not A nnual report on insurance coverage.
be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
The Board monitors executive managements action plans to implement improvements in internal controls that have been Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially identified following the above-mentioned reviews and reports.
separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the financial The Board confirms that it has not been advised of any significant statements.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to failings or weaknesses in the Groups internal controls.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Remuneration Nominations committees are available at the AGM to respond A separate Remuneration Committee report is set out on pages to questions.
It is usual for all other directors to attend.
47 to 67 and provides details of our remuneration policy and At the AGM to be held on 7 May 2014, shareholders consent how it has been implemented, together with the activities of the will be sought on the following special business, in addition to Remuneration Committee.
routine business: Relations with shareholders i approval of the Remuneration Policy: ii approval of a new Long Term Incentive Plan: and The Group values its dialogue with institutional and private iii authority to convene general meetings on 14 clear days investors.
notice in accordance with the Articles on the terms set out The Board communicates with private investors via direct in the Notice of Meeting.
communication with investor relations and the Company All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Secretary, material distributed or made available on the investor AGM after their appointment and have been subject to re-election relations section of our website and at the AGM see below.
annually since 2012 in compliance with the Code.
In 2014, all Effective communication with fund managers, institutional directors will be subject to election or re-election except for investors and analysts about the Groups strategy, performance Mr Robins, who will retire from the Board at the end of the AGM and policies is promoted by meetings involving the Chief on 7 May 2014.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives By order of the Board reports from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders, which are discussed.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders and a number of such M L Thomas meetings on corporate governance took place in 2013.
Directors Company Secretary understanding of major shareholders views is enhanced by 3 March 2014 reports from the Head of Investor Relations, our brokers and attending analysts briefings.
Analysts notes on the Group are made available to all directors.
In 2013, a consultation was undertaken with significant shareholders covering a revised proposed remuneration package and policy.
The process and outcome of this consultation are described on page 56.
