Melrose Industries PLC 62 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report Statement of compliance The Company Secretary is responsible for advising and The Company is required to make certain statements relating supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate tothe way it is governed as laid down in the UK Code.
The governance matters as well as ensuring a smooth flow of remainder of this Corporate Governance report describes the information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors way in which the Company has applied and complied with the have access to the advice and services of the Company Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and the respective Secretary and, through him, have access to independent related provisions of governance set out in the UK Code.
professional advice in respect of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the good governance.
Throughout the year ended 31December Remuneration Committee.
2013, the Company applied and complied with the Main Principles, the Supporting Principles and the respective related In addition, Business Review meetings are held between provisions of the UK Code, with the exception of a specific scheduled Board meetings.
These meetings are critical to element of Schedule A, which recommends that grants under providing the Directors with a comprehensive understanding of executive share options and long-term incentive plans should the current performance and the key issues affecting Group normally be phased, rather than awarded in one block.
Under businesses, without the formality or rigidity of a Board meeting.
the2012 Incentive Plan, details of which are provided on pages Chief executives and other senior management from the Melrose 70 to 84 of the Directors remuneration report, entitlements to businesses are periodically invited to attend and present to executive Directors were awarded in one block, rather than these meetings, providing the Directors with an opportunity to phased.
The 2012 Incentive Plan was recommended as being meet and engage with existing and emerging talent from across inthe best interests of shareholders as a whole by the Board of the organisation.
Directors and was approved by shareholders at a General In accordance with its Articles and in compliance with the Meeting held on 11April 2012.
With regard to all other aspects of Companies Act 2006, the Company has granted a qualifying executive Directors remuneration, the Companys policies fully third party indemnity to each Director.
The Company also comply with the provisions of Schedule A of the UK Code.
maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Audit Committee report, Nomination Committee report and Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Directors remuneration report also form part of this Corporate The roles of Chairman and Vice-Chairman are, and will remain, Governance report.
separate to that of the Chief Executive of the Company, in accordance with best practice and Board policy.
Main Principle A: Leadership The Board The Chairman, with the assistance of the Vice-Chairman, is Details of the structure of the Board and its key responsibilities responsible for leadership of the Board.
The Chairman sets the are shown on page 55.
Board agenda and ensures that adequate time is given to the discussion of issues, particularly those of a strategic nature.
Board responsibilities are discharged in conjunction with senior Responsibility for ensuring effective communications with management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day shareholders rests with the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board two other executive Directors.
on items of significance and progress against objectives.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad-hoc During 2013, the non-executive Directors, led by the current basis as required by time-critical business needs.
Senior non-executive Director, Miles Templeman, held meetings to discuss and appraise the performance of the Chairman.
There were four, formally scheduled Board meetings held during the year and the attendance of each Director at these meetings The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and isshown on page 64.
In addition, a number of unscheduled decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
Board meetings were held during the year in connection with corporate transactions, for example, business divestments and, Main Principle B : Effectiveness more recently, the return of capital to shareholders and Board composition associated share capital consolidation.
As at 5March 2014, the Board was comprised of an executive Chairman, three other executive Directors and five non-executive A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each Directors, all of whom the Board considers to be independent.
Director in advance of each scheduled Board or Committee The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further clarification and experience in areas complementary to the activities of the information on any matter from any other Director, the Company Company.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages Secretary or any other employee of the Group whenever 56and 57 and on the Companys corporate website at necessary.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with www.
These biographies identify any other the recommendations of its Committees and advice from appointments held by the non-executive Directors.
None of the external consultants, advisers and senior management.
executive Directors hold non-executive positions outside The Board has introduced a fully encrypted electronic board theCompany.
portal system, enabling Board and Committee papers to be delivered securely to Directors.
This facilitates a faster and more secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, and reduced resource usage.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 63 Annual Report 2013 Governance Non-executive Director independence Board evaluation In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, consideration Evaluation approach and process has been given to the independence of all non-executive During 2013, the Chairman held meetings with each of the Directors.
The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors Directors individually, including the Senior non-executive Director, to be independent.
Miles Templeman, to discuss the performance of individual executive Directors and the Board as a whole.
In accordance Miles Templeman, currently the Boards Senior non-executive with the provisions of the UK Code, during 2013 the Board Director, will retire from his position at the conclusion of the 2014 engaged Lintstock Limited to undertake an independent Annual General Meeting, having been a non-executive Director of evaluation of Board and Board Committee performance and to Melrose for the past 10 years.
As part of the Boards succession identify areas where performance and procedures might be planning processes, Liz Hewitt was appointed as a non-executive further improved.
Lintstock Limited is a specialist corporate Director on 8October 2013.
The Board is of the opinion that Ms governance consultancy and has no commercial dealings or Hewitts long-established and highly pertinent experience will be other connection with the Melrose Group.
ofsignificant benefit to Melrose as the business continues to grow, and that Ms Hewitts appointment will help to further strengthen The first stage of the evaluation involved Lintstock engaging with theindependence of the Board.
In accordance with the Companys the Chairman and the Company Secretary to discuss and agree Articles, Ms Hewitt will stand for election at the 2014 AGM.
the scope of the proposed evaluation and to develop a series of comprehensive questionnaires tailored to the specific The Board notes that Perry Crosthwaite has served as a circumstances of Melrose.
non-executive Director on the Melrose Board since July 2005 and, asa result, he will have served in this position for more All respondents were then requested to complete online thannine years during the course of 2014.
The Board is of the questionnaires addressing the composition and performance of opinion that, due to his invaluable experience in financial and the Board and its Committees, and the performance of the other corporate matters, Mr Crosthwaite continues to maintain Chairman and the Senior non-executive Director.
The anonymity both his effectiveness and his independence.
The Board of all respondents was ensured throughout the process in order willcontinue to monitor this position but feels at the present to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
timethatMr Crosthwaite continues to make an important Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the contributionto the Company.
following areas: The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any cash bonus the composition of the Board and the Boards understanding orshares under the 2012 Incentive Plan.
of the views of the Companys major investors, stakeholders Board induction, training and support and of the markets in which the Company operates: A full and formal induction programme tailored to the needs the involvement of the non-executive Directors in the affairs of ofindividual Directors is provided for new Directors joining the the Company outside of Board and Committee meetings, the Board.
The primary aim of the induction programme is to dynamics between the Board members and between the introduce new Directors to, and educate new Directors about, Board and senior management and the atmosphere in the the Groups businesses, its operations and its governance Board room: arrangements.
In the case of Liz Hewitt, the induction process included meetings with senior management and external the Boards time management and the annual time advisers, a thorough briefing on the businesses of the Company commitment required of Directors, together with the Boards and site visits to the Companys various business operations.
annual cycle of work and the support afforded to the Board: Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman the Boards oversight of strategy, and the Board members and the Company Secretary to ensure that new Directors gain views over the principal strategic challenges and opportunities sufficient knowledge to enable them to contribute to the facing the Company: Boardsdeliberations as quickly as possible.
the risk appetite of the Board and the Boards management of One of the outputs from the 2013 Board evaluation exercise was the principal risks and uncertainties to the Group: adesire for the Board as a whole to gain greater visibility of and connection with the Groups business operations.
Following this the succession planning for executive Directors and for senior feedback, a visit is being organised to the Elster Gas operations management at the level below the Board, and the Boards atOsnabrck in Germany.
This visit will provide the Board with an visibility of potential successors for key positions from within opportunity to meet with senior management and staff at Elster the business: and Gas and to receive presentations and updates on developments the composition and performance of the Board and its and other changes occurring in that business segment.
Committees and the performance of the Chairman and the Senior non-executive Director.
At a dedicated Board session, a report of the findings of the evaluation and its recommendations were discussed and specific actions agreed.
Melrose Industries PLC 64 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Outputs of the evaluation Attendance of Directors The Board recognises the benefits of a thorough Board and Committee evaluation process.
Overall, the evaluation Board Audit Remuneration Nomination demonstrated that the composition and performance of the 1 Number of meetings 4 3 2 2 Board and its Committees and the performance of the Chairman Christopher Miller 4 2 and the Senior non-executive Director were very effective.
David Roper 4 As a result of the review, amongst other things, the Board agreed: Simon Peckham 4 2 to incorporate into the Board schedule visits to major operating Geoffrey Martin 4 3 businesses and periodic sessions with senior management Miles Templeman 4 3 1 2 from those business units: Perry Crosthwaite 4 3 2 2 John Grant 4 3 2 2 that there was a need to increase the frequency of Justin Dowley 3 3 2 2 management presentations to the Board: 3 Liz Hewitt 1 1 1 that further Board time should be devoted to discussions 1 I n addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time-to-time which are attended by a quorum concerning talent management and executive and nonof Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
executive succession planning: and 2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
3 Liz Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 8October 2013.
Since her appointment MsHewitt that there was a need to further enhance the Boards attended each of the remaining Board and Committee meetings through to yearend.
understanding of risk identification and management.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, it is Main Principle C: Accountability anticipated that externally facilitated Board evaluations will be Objectives and policy carried out every three years.
In years when an external The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to evaluation is not carried out, the Board will continue to complete safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of internal performance-based questionnaires, with the process the Group for the benefit of its shareholders.
Achievement of their managed by the Company Secretary.
The scope for each objectives requires the development of policies and appropriate subsequent evaluation will be designed to build upon learning internal control frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are gained in the previous year to ensure that the recommendations managed properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated agreed in the evaluations are implemented and that year-on-year where possible.
progress is measured and reported upon.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the development of the Groups overall risk management policies and system of internal Annual re-election of Directors control frameworks and for reviewing their respective In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all of the effectiveness, while the role of management is to implement Directors stood for re-election at the 2013 Annual General these policies and frameworks across the Groups business Meeting.
The articles of association of the Company require the operations.
The Directors recognise that the systems and Directors to stand for annual re-election, thus ensuring continued processes established by the Board are designed to manage, compliance with the UK Code.
As such, all Directors will offer rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business themselves for election or re-election as the case may be at the objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against 2014 Annual General Meeting, to be held on 13May 2014, with material financial misstatement or loss.
the exception of Miles Templeman who is retiring at the The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull Following the formal performance evaluations of each of the Guidance on Internal Control.
In accordance with this guidance, Directors and having carefully considered the commitments there is an ongoing process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, required and the contribution made by each Director, the for identifying, evaluating, managing and mitigating where Chairman is of the opinion that each Directors performance possible the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process for continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate reviewing the Groups internal controls is consistent with prior commitment to the role.
years and has been in place throughout the 2013 financial year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Attendance of Directors at meetings The following table shows the attendance of each of the Directors A separate Audit Committee report is set out on pages 66 to 68 at the scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees held and provides details of the role and activities of the Committee during the year.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
business by the Board and each of its Committees is two.
Briefing Managing and controlling risk papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in The Group has policies and internal control frameworks which advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in address a number of key business risks, including strategic, conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and operational, compliance, ethical and financial risks.
A summary advice from external advisers and senior management as ofthe Principal risks and uncertainties that could impact upon appropriate.
The representations of any Director, who is unable to the Groups performance is set out on pages 36 to 39. attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee, are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 65 Annual Report 2013 Governance The Groups financial risk management objectives and The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, policiesare also described in the Finance Directors review on it has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses pages 40to 47. that it considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of any material weaknesses The Group operates on a fide-centralised basis and the Board in the internal control systems that relate to financial reporting.
has established an organisational structure with clear reporting procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Whistleblowing, anti-bribery and corruption policies Divisional senior management, operational managers and The Company takes very seriously its responsibilities under the financial controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Bribery Act 2010 and has in place appropriate measures to ensure Board for the establishment and implementation of detailed compliance.
Policies in place within each business apply to all control systems as appropriate for their business.
Directors, employees whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary, pension trustees, consultants and other business An established programme of regular review is in place at the advisers, contractors, trainees, volunteers, business agents, businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is distributors, joint venture partners, or any other person working for encouraged by the Board through regular meetings with senior or performing a service on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries management, review of operating performance and progress and associated companies in which it has a majority interest.
The ongoing process of review provides assurance that the control environment is operating as intended.
The Company is currently in the process of updating its compliance policies and this is expected to be finalised during The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the 2014.
As part of these ongoing improvements, it is expected internal control process implemented across the Group through that an independent and externally facilitated whistleblowing a review of the key findings presented by the external and internal hotline will be made available to all employees within the Group.
Management is responsible for ensuring that the Audit This facility is currently only available to Elster employees.
Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls and risk management are implemented.
Main Principle D: Remuneration Following the acquisition of Elster in August 2012, the Company Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 and in line with has been working hard to ensure the successful integration of new regulations which came into effect on 1October 2013, this business into Melrose reporting and governance frameworks, details around Directors remuneration, both generally and as it in order to ensure a consistent approach is maintained relates to the UK Code, are set out in the Directors remuneration throughout the Group.
report and are now presented in the following three sections: Internal financial controls and reporting the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the Committee, which can be found on pages 70 and 71: effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including strategic the annual report on remuneration, which can be found on business planning and regular monitoring and reporting of pages 72 to 77: and financial performance.
A detailed annual budget is prepared bysenior management and thereafter is reviewed and formally the Directors remuneration policy, which can be found on adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly pages 77 to 84. updated via a rolling forecast process and regular business review meetings are held involving senior management to assess Main Principle E: Relations with shareholders performance.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported The Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of toand discussed by the Board at each meeting.
As discussed objectives with its institutional shareholders, via the executive inthe Audit Committee report on pages 66 to 68, BM Howarth Directors, through regular meetings and presentations following isthe Groups internal auditor: they also assumed internal audit announcements of its annual and interim results.
The nonresponsibility for the Elster businesses from acquisition in executive Directors are available to meet institutional August2012 onwards.
shareholders should there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to their attention.
The views of key analysts and A total of 42 internal audit visits, covering 45.9% of Group shareholders generally are fed back to the Board directly by turnover, were completed during 2013.
These visits include individual Directors, or via the Companys brokers.
This helps to 27Elster reporting units which, combined with the planned ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding visits for 2014, will ensure that 98% of the Elster units will have of the views of major shareholders.
been visited by internal audit within two years of acquisition.
The Directors are pleased to report that there were no material The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the deficiencies: the majority of the recommendations presented in Annual General Meeting.
The results of the voting on each of the the internal audit reports have now been, or are in the process resolutions proposed will be announced shortly after the Annual of being implemented.
Of the 42 sites visited in 2013, three General Meeting has concluded, via the Melrose corporate sites have been chosen for re-visits in 2014 to ensure that website at www.
the agreed improvements to systems and processes have beenimplemented.
