Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 69 Annual Report 2013 Governance Nomination Committee report Diversity Miles Templeman The Committee currently takes into account a variety of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, Nomination Committee including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, Chairman knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority ofthe Committee, however, has been and will continue to be ensuring that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward.
Whilst the Committee will endeavour to pursue diversity, including The Nomination Committee has overall responsibility gender diversity throughout the Melrose Group and concurs with the for ensuring that the Board and its Committees have recommendations of Lord Davies review, Women on Boards, the appropriate balance of skills, experience, the Committee does not think it appropriate to have, nor will it be independence and knowledge of the Company to committing to, any specific diversity targets in relation to the enable them to discharge their respective duties composition of the Board, or the wider businesses within and .
of meetings Miles Templeman Chairman 2 2 Succession planning Perry Crosthwaite 2 2 In line with the succession planning responsibilities of the Justin Dowley 2 2 Committee, the decision was taken in early 2013 to recruit John Grant 2 2 another non-executive Director to the Board, in order to take 1 account of the impending retirement of Miles Templeman from Liz Hewitt the position of Senior non-executive Director, at the conclusion Christopher Miller 2 2 of the 2014 AGM.
It was also felt by the Committee that an 1 Following her appointment to the Board on 8October 2013. additional non-executive Director serving on the Melrose Board would further complement the skill set of the Board.
Committee responsibilities The Nomination Committee the Committee discharges these The Committee undertook a formal and rigorous recruitment responsibilities through: exercise to find a suitable non-executive Director to join the Melrose Board see What the Committee did in 2013, below, regular review of the size, structure and composition of the for further details.
Following this process, the Committee Board and by providing recommendations to the Board of any recommended to the Board the appointment of Liz Hewitt, on adjustments that may be necessary from time to time: 8October 2013.
In accordance with the Articles, Ms Hewitt will giving full consideration to succession planning in order to stand for election as a Director of the Company at the 2014 AGM.
ensure an optimum balance of executive and non-executive At the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, Liz Hewitt will replace Directors in terms of skills, experience and diversity: MilesTempleman as Chairman of the Committee.
keeping under review the leadership needs of the business: and What the Committee did in 2013 keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues The main focus of the Committee during 2013, as described and commercial changes affecting the Company and the above, was the recruitment of a new non-executive Director to markets in which it operates.
The Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year After the discussion of alternatives, the Committee decided to and during 2013 the Committee met twice.
The attendance of its use the services of Stonehaven Executive Search, an external members at these Committee meetings is shown above.
recruitment firm who have no other connection with the The Committees full terms of reference are available to view on Company, to conduct an extensive search exercise.
the Companys website at: www.
net about-us Following a formal and rigorous recruitment process, the governance nomination-committee Committee recommended to the Board that Ms Hewitts longFurther details regarding the composition, diversity policy and the established and highly pertinent experience would be of 2013 activities of the Committee are shown below.
significant benefit to Melrose as the business continues to grow.
As such, Ms Hewitt was appointed to the Board on 8October Composition 2013 and subsequently also became a member of the Audit, In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
majority of the members of the Committee were independent non-executive Directors throughout 2013.
During the year, the Committee was chaired by Miles Templeman, with Perry Crosthwaite, John Grant and Justin Dowley also serving throughout the year.
Liz Hewitt became a member of the Committee upon her Miles Templeman appointment to the Board on 8October 2013 see Succession Chairman, Nomination Committee planning and What the Committee did in 2013, below, for further 5March 2014 details.
Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman of the Board, was also a member of the Committee throughout the year.
