Melrose Industries PLC 66 Annual Report 2013 Governance Audit Committee report Composition John Grant Each member of the Committee is deemed to be independent by the Company and brings recent and relevant financial experience Audit Committee from senior executive and non-executive positions as described Chairman in their biographies on pages 56 and 57.
Given her financial qualifications and relevant experience, the Board concluded that Liz Hewitt should be invited to join the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee The Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head of responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external internal control review and reporting and for making and internal auditors to attend meetings where appropriate to the recommendations to the Board in relation to the business being considered.
The Committee has the right to invite appointment ofthe Companys internal and external auditors.
any other Directors and or employees to attend meetings where this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Committee meets at least once per year with both the external and internal auditors without management present.
of meetings John Grant Chairman 3 3 Summary of meetings in the year Perry Crosthwaite 3 3 The Committee is expected to meet not less than three times Justin Dowley 3 3 a year.
In 2013, the Committee met in March, August and 1 Liz Hewitt 1 1 November.
The scheduling of these meetings is designed to be Miles Templeman 3 3 aligned with the financial reporting timetable thereby enabling the 1 Following her appointment to the Board on 8October 2013.
Committee to review the Annual Report and financial statements, the interim financial report and the audit plan ahead of the year end audit and maintaining a view of the internal controls and Role and responsibilities processes throughout the year.
The Audit Committees the Committee role and responsibilities The attendance of its members at these meetings is are set out in its terms of reference.
These are available on the shownabove.
Companys website and from the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
In discharging its duties, the Committee Significant issues related to the financial statements embraces its role of protecting the interests of shareholders with In discharging its duties under its terms of reference, the respect to the integrity of financial information published by the Committee undertook the following recurring activities that Company and the effectiveness of the audit.
Specifically, the receive annual scrutiny: Committee is responsible for: reviewed the Annual Report and financial statements and reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the financial interim financial report.
As part of this review the Committee statements of the Group, including the Annual Report and received a report from the external auditor on their audit of the interim report: Annual Report and the financial statements and review of the keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial interim report: reporting, internal audit and controls, risk management considered the processes in place to generate forecasts of systems and compliance controls: cash flows and accounting valuation information, including the focusing and challenging the consistency of accounting reasonableness and consistent use of assumptions: policies, methods used to account for significant or unusual reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and transactions and compliance with accounting standards: disclosures made in the Annual Report and financial reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to statements on this matter: raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in considered the Annual Report and financial statements in the financial reporting, in accordance with the Companys context of being fair, balanced and understandable and whistleblowing policy: reviewed the content of a paper prepared by management with developing, implementing and monitoring the Groups policy regard to this principle in relation to the 2013 Annual Report on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and and financial statements.
Advised the Board that in its view, the effectiveness of the auditor: and 2013 Annual Report and financial statements when taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the reviewing and considering the Annual Report and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups financial statements to ensure that it is fair, balanced and performance, business model and strategy: and understandable and advising the Board that the statement can be made by the Board that this is the case.
reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the auditor.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 67 Annual Report 2013 Governance In addition to these matters, the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements during the year: The Audit Committees activities during 2013 Significant issue considered by the Audit Committee How the issue was addressed by the Audit Committee Provisions for legal and environmental claims and other provisions The level of provisioning for legal and environmental The Committee considered managements proposed provisioning in respect claims and other provisions require significant judgement.
of these legal and environmental claims and other provisions including the key judgements made and relevant legal advice.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current The external auditor also reported on all material provisions to the Committee.
estimates, the judgemental nature of these items Having considered the matter and sought guidance from the external auditor, means that future amounts settled may be different the Committee concluded that managements proposed provisioning and the from those provided.
associated disclosures in the Annual Report were appropriate.
Refer to notes 3 and 20 Classification of exceptional items The reporting, classification and consistency of The Committee considered the nature, classification and consistency of exceptional exceptional items, specifically restructuring and items.
These items were detailed in the external auditors paper to the Committee.
fair value releases, were an area of focus for The Committee considered this issue and concluded that these exceptional items theCommittee.
were appropriately captured and disclosed.
Refer to note 6 Taxation risks and recognition of deferred tax assets Judgement is required in determining the Groups Managements taxation judgements, accounting treatment and the appropriateness provision for income taxes including estimating tax of tax disclosures have been reviewed by the Committee.
provisions where additional current tax may become The Committee considered whether, from an accounting perspective, an update was payable in the future following the audit by the tax required to the tax provisions previously recorded in respect of specific exposures authorities of previously filed tax returns.
In addition the Committee reviewed the tax implications of corporate is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset transactions undertaken during the year.
The Committee debated whether additional should be recognised based on the availability of deferred tax assets should be brought onto the Balance Sheet as a consequence of, future taxable profits.
for example, the expected timing of future corporate transactions.
Refer to notes 3, 8 and 21 Having taken input from the external auditor, the Committee agreed with managements proposed treatment of tax risks and deferred tax assets.
Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other fixed assets The judgements in relation to goodwill impairment Business plans prepared by management supporting future performance testing relate to the assumptions applied in calculating expectations used in the calculation were approved by the Board.
The Committee the value in use of the cash-generating units being received a detailed report on the outcome of the impairment review performed by tested for impairment.
The key assumptions applied management.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external in the calculation relate to the future performance auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
expectations of the cash-generating units.
The Committee considered managements approach, the assumptions applied in The Committee has also considered the related relation to the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and other fixed assets and disclosures within the financial statements.
related disclosures and, having taken input from the external auditor, agreed with managements assessment that there were no indicators of impairment for any of Refer to notes 3 and 12 the Groups business units during the year.
Valuation of pension liabilities The calculation of the accounting position at the year The Committee has considered the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions end of the Groups pension liabilities is based on applied by management to the valuation of the Groups retirement plans at the material judgemental estimates.
Refer to notes 3 and 23 These assumptions were reviewed with the external auditor, with input and assistance from employee benefit experts.
The Committee supported the assumptions and judgements applied by management.
Melrose Industries PLC 68 Annual Report 2013 Governance Audit Committee report continued External audit During 2013, the main non-audit services provided by Appointment, re-appointment and assessment Deloitte LLP were in relation to taxation advisory, compliance ofeffectiveness and planning services.
The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with An analysis of the fees earned by the external auditors for regard to the reappointment of the external auditors.
In making audit and non-audit services can be found in note 7 to the these recommendations, the Committee considers auditor consolidated financial statements.
effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which may impact the external auditors reappointment.
Auditor objectivity and independence The Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor The external auditor is required to rotate the audit signing partner objectivity and independence is maintained at all times.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as senior partner oversees the taxation audit of the Company part of that rotation process in 2010 and therefore partner compared to those working on the non-audit taxation services.
rotation is due in the financial year ending 31December 2015.
No fees were paid to Deloitte LLP on a contingent basis.
Based The Committee has reviewed the external auditors performance on these strict procedures the Committee remains confident that and effectiveness taking into account input from management auditor objectivity and independence has been maintained but together with feedback from the Public Report on the Audit Quality accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that Inspection of Deloitte LLP, issued by the Financial Reporting Council it does not compromise the auditors position.
In making its assessment, the Committee focused on the robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery of audit services At each year end, Deloitte LLP submits a letter setting out how it and the quality of the auditors staff.
Based on this information, the believes its independence and objectivity have been maintained.
Committee concluded that the external audit process is operating As noted above, they are also required to rotate the audit partner effectively and Deloitte LLP continues to prove effective in its role responsible for the Group audit every five years and significant as external auditor.
As detailed below, the Committee regularly subsidiary audits every seven years.
monitors the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
Internal audit Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003 when the Company Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate commenced trading and the external audit has not been for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
The Committee is satisfied that the BM Howarth, an external firm, provides internal audit services effectiveness and independence of the external auditors is not to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every impaired in any way.
There are no legal or contractual obligations business unit will have an internal audit at least once every that restrict the Groups capacity to recommend a particular firm three years, with the largest sites being reviewed at least once for appointment as auditor and therefore a resolution proposing every two years.
The rotation programme allows divisional the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors will be put managements actions and responses to be followed up on a to the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The internal audit programme of planned visits is Audit tendering discussed and agreed with the Committee during the year.
The Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the UK The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness Corporate Governance Code that the external audit should be of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups Policies put out to tender every 10 years.
The Company will comply with and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses Balance the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit Sheets.
A report of key findings and recommendations is presented market for FTSE350 companies, which is expected to come into to the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial Reporting and effect from 1October 2014.
Under the proposed transitional the Group Operations Controller, followed by a meeting to discuss arrangements, the Committee expects a formal tender process these key findings and to agree on resulting actions.
to be held no later than two years from the end of the current audit engagement partner rotation period which is due in the year BM Howarth present their key findings to the Committee twice ending 31December 2015.
This matter will be kept under review.
These presentations include details of the site coverage for the previous year and an outline of the planned visits Non-audit services for the current year.
A review of the internal audit process and scope The Committee has a policy on the engagement of the external of work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
This is to ensure that Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under auditors independence or objectivity.
In accordance with best review.
The Committee also reviews BM Howarths performance practice FRC guidelines, the Company policy in relation to nonagainst the agreed internal audit programme.
A report of significant audit services is kept under regular review: the policy outlines findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee at which non-audit services are pre-approved being those which each meeting and implementation of recommendations by the are routine in nature, with a fee that is not significant in the Board is followed up at the subsequent Committee meeting.
context of the audit or audit-related services, which services require the prior approval of the Committee and which services the auditor is excluded from providing.
The general principle is that the audit firm should not be requested to carry out non-audit services on any activity of the Company where they may, in the John Grant future, be required to give an audit opinion.
