Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Pursuant to Relationship Agreements with the pre-IPO major The Committee meets at least four times during the financial year shareholders, the Company has agreed with each of them that at appropriate times in the audit cycle.
In addition, it meets at such they may each appoint an observer with the right to attend and other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires, speak at Committee meetings, but not vote to each of the Audit or if requested by the external auditors.
Only Committee Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination members have the right to attend and vote at its meetings but, as Committees for so long as it together with its respective noted earlier, each of the pre-IPO major shareholders has a right affiliates holds at least ten per cent.
of the Companys ordinary to appoint an observer to attend meetings of the Committee shares.
While KIRKBI holds at least ten per cent.
of the Companys while they hold at least ten per cent.
of the Companys ordinary ordinary shares, it may also appoint an observer in addition to a shares.
In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Non-executive Director to the Board with the right to attend Financial Officer and other individuals can be invited to attend and speak at Board meetings, but not vote.
all or any part of any meeting of the Committee as and when appropriate.
Audit committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its The Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, external and duties, including the services of the Group Legal Director and internal audits and controls, including reviewing the Companys Company Secretary and the Groups internal audit function.
annual financial statements: reviewing and monitoring the extent Independent external legal and professional advice can also be of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors: advising taken by the Committee if it believes it is necessary to do so.
on the appointment of external auditors: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities, internal Internal controls controls and risk management systems.
The ultimate responsibility Details of the internal controls of the Company including a for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and accounts and description of the main features of its internal control and risk the half yearly reports remains with the Board.
management arrangements in relation to the financial reporting process and the manner in which the Board and its Committees The Code recommends that the Audit Committee should assess the effectiveness of these controls are set out on page 59. comprise at least three independent Non-executive Directors and that at least one member should have recent and relevant Remuneration committee financial experience.
As the Audit Committee consists of three The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining independent Non-executive Directors, the Company complies its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making with this Code recommendation.
Ken Hydon is considered by recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
executive remuneration: determining the individual remuneration No members of the Audit Committee have links with the and benefits package of each of the Executive Directors: and Companys external auditors.
recommending and monitoring the remuneration of senior management below Board level.
The Committee is chaired by Ken Hydon.
The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Committee, Charles Gurassa and Miguel Ko.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee.
