Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Number of audit committee meetings Accounting, tax and financial reporting and attendance The Committee will meet a minimum of four times per year.
Four Considered the half year and full year financial statements, Audit Committee meetings were held in 2013, three of which took including any significant judgemental items, most notably place prior to Listing by the former Audit Committee, whilst the goodwill valuation: the tax position of the Company, in new Audit Committee held one meeting in December 2013. particular in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets: and the carrying value of interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Attendance at the meetings is shown elsewhere in the Corporate Considered the appropriateness of preparing the half year and Governance Report.
full year accounts on a going concern basis.
Considered the liquidity of the Group, in particular in relation Activities of the audit committee to any covenants in place.
during the year Reviewed disclosure in the Annual Report and accounts in The Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms relation to internal control, risk management process and the of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at work of the Committee.
each meeting in addition to any specific matters arising and topical Reviewed and assessed any liability in relation to the items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
Companys defined benefit pension schemes.
Received technical updates, in particular in relation to the During 2013, the Committee reviewed certain relevant requirements and changes to the Code, and assessed the documentation in relation to the IPO, notably a detailed review Audit Committees report in the context of the Codes fair, and discussion on the findings within KPMGs half year balanced and understandable requirement.
Significant issues considered by the Whilst the terms of reference of the Audit Committee were audit committee updated at the point the new Committee was created, the Following discussion with both management and the external collective work of the two Audit Committees in 2013 principally auditors, the Committee determined that the areas of fell under three main areas: internal controls: external auditors: greatest and most significant judgement, that could give rise and accounting, tax and financial reporting, as summarised below.
to misstatement of the Groups financial statements, related to the following: Internal controls Deferred tax asset recognition see note 2.3 of the financial Reviewed and considered the reports of the internal statements for further details.
Carrying value of interest-bearing loans and borrowings Reviewed and considered the reports of the external auditors see note 5.2. on the internal control environment.
Reviewed the resources of the internal audit function and considered and approved the scope of the internal audit plan.
These items were considered by the Audit Committee at the time Considered the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
they reviewed and agreed the external auditors Group audit plan, Reviewed and considered the process of risk management to ensure that due consideration was given at that point, as well as within the Company.
at the time of reviewing the external auditors final audit findings.
Undertook an assessment of the internal control environment, facilitated by discussion with relevant management and Deferred tax asset recognition external parties following the establishment of the In recent years the Group had accumulated significant unrecognised new Committee.
deferred tax assets, largely from unclaimed capital allowances in the Discussed the fraud and whistleblowing policy and assessed UK.
These assets were not recognised in the past due to the its effectiveness.
uncertainty of the availability of future taxable profits.
External auditors The judgement over how much of the unrecognised deferred tax assets should be recognised in 2013 is based on Merlins forecasts Considered and approved the approach, scope and fees of the regarding the generation of taxable profits within the Group external auditors.
and the impact of capital allowances on these profits.
A number Reviewed the reports and findings of the external audit, of changes during 2013 associated with the IPO, including the including the 2013 half year audit memorandum which restructuring of debt facilities, reorganisation of the Group structure, covered a full audit in support of the IPO process.
and settlement of interest rate swaps, have led to an increased Assessed the external auditors independence and the level of certainty over the availability of these future taxable profits.
nonaudit work, in particular paying due attention to the one-off fees associated with the IPO process.
Considered the effectiveness of the external auditors.
Considered the recommendations of the Code, the recent Competition Commission and EU recommendations in relation to the tender of the external audit contract.
