AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder The Committee recognises that an independent and effective internal audit function is essential.
The Internal Audit Director has In 2013 the membership of the Audit Committee changed due to dual reporting lines to the CFO and myself.
We are satisfied with the Companys Listing in November 2013.
Prior to the Listing the the internal audit teams performance: that they focused on the Committee was chaired by the Company Chairman and all of the key accounting and financial control matters globally, achieving Board were members, including the representatives of the three a material coverage of the Companys revenue and assets: pre-IPO major shareholders.
Whilst the composition of the and that management have responded well to the Committee changed upon Listing, the fundamental objectives of auditors recommendations.
the Committee remain consistent both before and after Listing.
The Committee routinely looks at the significant accounting In October 2013 the new Committee was approved by the treatments facing the Group and at the year end we focused Board comprising Charles Gurassa, Miguel Ko and myself as on deferred tax asset recognition, the carrying value of interestChair.
We have considerable experience working with large bearing loans and borrowings, and impairment charges.
These listed multinational companies and are independent are dealt with in more detail later in our report and we have Non-executive Directors.
concluded that the treatment in the accounts is appropriate.
The Committee has terms of reference and an annual plan that Our terms of reference include reviewing the Companys overall are aligned to the Code.
Full terms of reference of the risk management systems and we are satisfied the Board has Committee are available on our website under Investor Relations received regular reports which covered all areas of risk especially - Corporate Governance.
Our focus is on the integrity of the on health and safety matters.
financial information: robustness of internal controls: the effectiveness of audit: and providing clear and complete financial 2013 has been an amazing year for the central team who have reports to shareholders.
We also aim to provide shareholders succeeded in coping with all the extra and unfamiliar work with timely communication on significant matters relating to associated with becoming a public listed company whilst still finance and we monitor fraud risk.
The annual plan is based on contributing to a strong operating result.
2014 will complete the four meetings a year but more will be arranged if required.
learning experience for senior executives in a listed company environment as well as the Non-executive Directors induction All members of the Committee expect to attend every meeting programme.
We continue to benefit from the attendance of the and at the request of the Committee, so do the CFO, Internal pre-IPO major shareholder representatives.
Audit Director, external auditors and Company Secretary.
The Company Chairman and the CEO have a standing invitation to attend meetings, and often do, with other members of management attending by invitation.
Ken Hydon During 2013 we performed an effectiveness review of the Chairman of the Audit Committee external auditors, in a year which included extra work in 26 February 2014 preparation for the IPO, and considered the quality of their work and their independence.
On the basis of this review we recommend KPMG be reappointed at the AGM.
We also considered the Code, the recent Competition Commission and EU recommendations on audit tendering and rotation, and our current expectation is that the audit will be retendered no later than 2016 for the 2017 year end.
