Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Company has entered a Lenders Facilities Agreement which In 2013, the Company was also subject to a series of thorough stipulates that if any newly appointed auditor were not to be one reviews and audits as part of the IPO process.
These processes of the Big Four accounting firms, the proposed firm would need combined with an assessment of discussions with relevant to be approved by the majority of the Companys lenders.
stakeholders of the internal control systems, satisfied the Committee that such systems are effective in providing Internal controls reasonable assurance against material fraud or loss.
The Company operates various levels of control against which the risks of the business are managed.
As with any business, the The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal Company faces risk in all its activities.
The Company separates risk control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
into three categories, namely: health, safety and security risk: The Audit Committee has considered the process by which the operational and strategic risk: and financial risk.
How these risks Company approaches risk management and is satisfied that the are managed is detailed in the Risks and Uncertainties section of Company has systems and procedures in place to identify, this Annual Report.
evaluate and manage all material risks to the business, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
These systems and Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk adequate internal controls over financial reporting, including over of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide the Groups consolidation processes.
Such controls are designed reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve its misstatement or loss.
Specifically the Audit Committee has business objectives.
reviewed the financial risk category and the internal controls in place.
Similarly the Committee is satisfied that this process has The first level of internal control comprises the delegated been in place for the year under review and up to the date of authority limits and purchasing and sale price approval levels approval of the Annual Report and accounts and that the that are stated within the Companys financial operating process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The second level is the review processes the Company undertakes on its trading performance.
Attraction financial performance is effectively reviewed on a weekly, monthly and quarterly basis by management.
Attraction management accounts are also reviewed in detail on a monthly and quarterly basis by management.
A comprehensive review of a detailed strategic process is undertaken annually, as is the annual budgeting process, both of which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The third level of assurance is gained from audit and self-assessment: Quarterly the attractions senior finance representatives are required to self-certify the robustness of their financial control environment, raising any concerns and issues for resolution.
Annually internal audit review the financial controls and accounting of sites equating to approximately 80 per cent.
of the Groups revenue, as well as high risk or high revenue non-attraction functions such as call centres, central finance functions and major expenditure functions.
The internal audit annual plan is developed in conjunction with management and through an assessment of a series of risk factors before being reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
The material findings of internal audit are reviewed by management and the Audit Committee.
External audit findings on the control environment and financial statements are reviewed by management, the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The findings of other specialist experts, such as tax, pension and treasury experts, are also considered where relevant.
