Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Committee considers all material elements of remuneration The Committee meets formally at least twice each year and policy, remuneration and incentives of Executive Directors and at such other times as the Board or the Committee senior management with reference to independent remuneration Chairman requires.
research and professional advice in accordance with the Code and makes recommendations to the Board on the framework The Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its for executive remuneration and its cost.
The Board is then duties, including the services of the Group Legal Director and responsible for implementing the recommendations and Company Secretary and the Groups Human Resources function.
agreeing the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
The Independent external legal and professional advice can also be Committee is also responsible for making recommendations for taken by the Committee if it believes it is necessary to do so.
the grants of awards under the Companys share incentive plans.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no Nomination committee Director may participate in discussions relating to his own terms The Nomination Committee assists the Board in discharging its and conditions of remuneration.
Non-executive Directors and responsibilities in relation to the composition of the Board.
The the Chairmans fees are determined by the full Board.
Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: the size, structure The Committees remit includes recommending to the Board and and composition of the Board: retirements and appointments other Group companies the policy for the remuneration of the of additional and replacement Directors other than those Executive Directors and other senior management.
The objective appointed by the pre-IPO major shareholders, and makes of such policy is to ensure that senior management are provided appropriate recommendations to the Board on such matters.
with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their As part of its activities the Nomination Committee also individual contributions to the Groups success.
In doing this the considers the diversity including gender diversity of the Board.
Committee considers whether contractual terms and payments on termination are fair and, importantly, that failure is The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the not rewarded.
The Committee also reviews the design of share Nomination Committee should be independent Non-executive incentive and bonus plans for approval by the Board and reviews Directors.
As the Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the the Groups remuneration policies as a whole and remuneration Board and consists of the Chairman of the Committee and three trends across the Group.
further independent Non-executive Directors, the Company complies with this Code recommendation.
The Code recommends that the Committee should comprise at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
As the The Committee is chaired by Sir John Sunderland.
The members Committee consists of three independent Non-executive of the Committee are the Chairman of the Committee, Charles Directors and the Chairman, the Company complies with Gurassa, Ken Hydon and Miguel Ko.
The Committee meets formally at least once a year and at such The Committee is chaired by Charles Gurassa, the Senior other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Committee, Sir John The Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its Sunderland, Ken Hydon and Miguel Ko.
Only Committee duties, including the services of the Group Legal Director and members have the right to attend and vote at its meetings but, as Company Secretary.
Independent external legal and professional noted earlier, each of the pre-IPO major shareholders has a right advice can also be taken by the Committee if it believes it is to appoint an observer to attend meetings of the Committee necessary to do so.
while they hold at least ten per cent.
of the Companys ordinary shares.
In addition other individuals may be invited to attend from time to time, as and when appropriate.
