CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MERLIN BELIEVES THAT EFFECTIVE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS A FUNDAMENTAL ASPECT OF A WELL RUN COMPANY AND IS COMMITTED TO MAINTAINING HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACROSS ITS GROUP.
Introduction excluding the Chairman are independent of the Company, the Merlin has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange Board is committed to becoming compliant with this Listing.
As such it is subject to the UK Corporate Governance recommendation during 2014.
Code 2012 the Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules.
In addition, Merlin has regard for Apart from the structure of the Board, Merlin has complied the views of its shareholders and institutional shareholder throughout the accounting period with all relevant provisions of representative bodies.
the Code, the DTRs and the Listing Rules.
The Code can be viewed on the website of the Financial Reporting Evaluation of effectiveness Council www.
The DTRs and the Listing Rules can be viewed As the Company has only been listed for a short period during on the website of the Financial Conduct Authority www.
2013, the Board and its Committees considered that it was not appropriate to conduct an externally facilitated evaluation of their Statement of compliance effectiveness.
Each member of the Board and its Committees has In preparation for Listing, Merlin undertook a review of its conducted an internal evaluation of their effectiveness and has governance structure in order to identify changes which would need concluded that throughout the year the functions and responsibilities to be implemented prior to and on Listing in order to ensure a included within the remit of each had been effectively undertaken.
strong governance environment and, so far as reasonably possible, The Board and the Committees had regard to the fact that the full compliance with the Code, the DTRs and the Listing Rules.
The Company and the Group had undergone a significant degree of principal area in which the Companys governance structure needed scrutiny of the applicable controls, systems and procedures in to be strengthened in order to be fit for life as a listed plc related to preparation for Listing and that a thorough due diligence and the composition of its Board and Committees.
The Board verification process had not disclosed any material weaknesses.
recognised the need to strengthen the Board and its Committees, in particular by appointing additional independent Non-executive Investor relations Directors.
Accordingly, in the months prior to Listing the Company The Company communicates with institutional and private conducted a rigorous search process through Spencer Stuart, an shareholders in a number of ways.
external search company with no links to the Company.
As a result, four highly experienced independent Non-executive Directors were Merlins website is regularly updated with news and information, identified with a wide range of relevant industry knowledge.
Charles including this Annual Report which sets out our strategy and Gurassa, Ken Hydon and Miguel Ko joined the Board prior to Listing performance together with our plans for future growth.
Going and Fru Hazlitt will join the Board in April 2014.
In addition, the forward our presentations to analysts and shareholders will be Companys three pre-IPO major shareholders reduced their available on the Company website, and at our Annual General representation on the Board to one Director each.
Meeting all shareholders have the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed.
Leading up to the IPO the new Directors were subject to a full induction process as they familiarised themselves with the Group, its During the year the Company met regularly with potential operations and its management, both through personal meetings and institutional investors as part of the preparation for Listing and such time spent reviewing and consulting on the IPO offer documents.
meetings will continue on a regular basis.
This activity is led by the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial Officer Together with Sir John Sunderland as Chairman of the Company, the CFO, together with the Companys Investor Relations team, and Board is confident that it has the strength, skills and experience to procedures are in place to then keep the Board regularly informed govern the Company appropriately and effectively.
Although the of such investors views.
This process will continue to evolve as composition of the Board does not at this time fully comply with the Merlin builds on its relationships with external investors in the recommendation of the Code that at least half the Directors months and years post Listing.
