CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK corporate governance code Board responsibilities and procedures As at the date of this report the Company complies and the The Board is responsible for overseeing Merlin, including: Company intends to continue to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code except as set out below.
The Board will also take account of institutional shareholder The development of strategy and major policies.
governance rules and guidance on disclosure and shareholder The review of management performance.
The approval of the annual operating plan, the Annual Report and financial statements, and major acquisitions and disposals.
The Code recommends that a UK listed companys Chairman be The system of internal control.
The Board considers that the Corporate governance.
Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Chairmans role is to ensure good corporate governance.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the Board and for communications with all Board and Committee members The Code recommends that at least half the members of the and shareholders.
He ensures that the Board receives sufficient Board of Directors excluding the Chairman of a UK listed information on financial trading and corporate issues prior to company should be independent in character and judgement and Board meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, assisted by senior free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, management, is responsible for day-to-day operations and the or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board has development of strategic plans for consideration by the Board.
concluded that, as set out in the Code, Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon and Miguel Ko are independent Non-executive Directors The Board intends to meet at least six times a year and may meet and that their appointments as independent Non-executive at other times as required or otherwise at the request of one or Directors are in the best interests of shareholders.
Although more of the Directors.
Where urgent decisions are required on Mr Gurassa serves on the board of Tragus Group Limited matters specifically reserved for the Board between meetings, there a Blackstone portfolio company and Mr Ko serves on the board is a process in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
of Formula One Delta Topco Limited - a CVC portfolio company, the other Directors have concluded that the The Directors of all Group companies, as well as the Board, also judgement, experience and challenging approach of each of them have access to the advice and services of the Group Legal Director should ensure that they make a significant contribution to the and Company Secretary, as well as external advice on legal and work of the Board and its Committees.
Blackstone and CVC, corporate governance matters.
along with KIRKBI, were the pre-IPO shareholders of Merlin and remain major shareholders post-IPO.
On the basis of their Appropriate induction and subsequent training is provided to new evaluation, the Board has determined that Mr Gurassa and Mr Ko members of the Board and its Committees.
are of independent character and judgement and may still be regarded as independent Directors for the purposes of the Code.
Board committees The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, and Health, Safety and Security Committees with formally delegated duties and responsibilities, and written terms of reference.
From time to time, separate Committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues when the need arises.
The terms of reference of each of the Board and its Committees are available on the Companys corporate website.
