Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Listing onto the London Stock Exchange Composition of the audit committee The current Group Audit Committee became effective from The members of the Committee are Ken Hydon, Charles Gurassa Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Prior to the establishment and Miguel Ko, as detailed elsewhere within the Corporate of this new Committee, a previous Audit Committee was in place, Governance Report.
Ken Hydon, who chairs the Committee, is a the last meeting of which was held on 16 October 2013.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, References to the Audit Committee in this report include the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the activities both before and after Listing.
He also serves as the Audit Committee chair at Reckitt Benckiser plc and Pearson plc and Role of the audit committee was previously CFO of Vodafone Group plc.
The Board regards The Audit Committee has received delegated authority from the Ken Hydon as the member possessing recent and relevant Board set out in its written terms of reference.
The primary financial experience and all three members of the Committee are purposes of the Audit Committee are: regarded by the Board as independent Non-executive Directors.
The varied backgrounds and global experience of the To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Committees members, and their collective skills and knowledge Company relating to its financial performance and review, of the Company, allows them to fulfil the Committees remit challenge where necessary and report to the Board on and to oversee the Companys external auditors.
significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
Regular Committee meetings are also attended by the CFO, To review and report on the effectiveness of the Companys Group Internal Audit Director, Group Finance Director, KPMG internal controls and its overall risk management systems.
the external auditor and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman and CEO also To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to frequently attend meetings and other members of management raise concerns through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
are invited to attend depending on the matters under discussion.
Private meetings are routinely held with internal audit and KPMG, To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys and the Committee also meets separately.
Non-executive internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context Directors representing the three pre-IPO major shareholders of the Companys overall risk management system.
being those who have retained ownership of at least ten per cent.
each of the issued share capital of the Company since its To oversee the work of the external auditor including: admission to the London Stock Exchange also regularly attend making recommendation to the Board, to be put to the meetings.
Prior to Listing, the Audit Committee was chaired shareholders at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, by the Group Chairman, Sir John Sunderland, and comprised re-appointme nt and removal of the external auditors, representatives of each of the three pre-IPO major shareholders.
approve their terms of engagement, annually assess their independence, objectivity, effectiveness and plan, including regular monitoring of the provision of non-audit services performed by the external auditors, review the findings of the audit.
To report formally to the Board and make recommendation where it is deemed necessary on matters within its duties, including a formal report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
