CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES GROUP RISK PROFILE CONTINUED Risk Actions to mitigate risk Data Management We have adopted a comprehensive IT security strategy and have management policies and control documents which include metrics on performance and risk.
Confidential, sensitive and personal data These are reviewed regularly.
Failure to handle this data properly could expose the Group We have a global security team and established IT governance to ensure defined to financial penalties and reputational risk.
controls are operating as expected.
IT risk management is also in place, which reports directly to the Chief Information Officer.
This team ensures the effectiveness of the Groups security solution and controls, monitors and addresses any cyber security threats, in partnership with our external security partner.
Security vulnerability is assessed and the remediation of identified risks and alerts is tracked.
Regular security assurance checks take place across all regions and penetration testing is undertaken.
To date this has not identified any material issues.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION We have comprehensive data protection policies in place and procedures for the TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE handling and storing of confidential, sensitive and personal data.
Legal Compliance and contracts The Groups Legal department, the Company Secretary, and local legal and Robin Buchanan Chairman compliance teams are advised by leading external advisors, as required, in regard The Group operates in a large number to changes in legislation that affect the Groups business, including employment Dear Shareholder, of legal jurisdictions that have varying legislation and corporate governance.
At PageGroup we are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Good governance underpins legal and compliance regulations.
We welcome warmly the movement to increased openness, transparency and clarity non compliance with client contract Our consultants and operational support staff receive induction training and regular brought by the new reporting requirements.
requirements and legislative or regulatory update training regarding the Groups policies and procedures and compliance with requirements could have an adverse effect relevant legislation and regulations, for example, around discrimination legislation and There are three elements of our governance that are particularly important.
The Board debates and decides on on the Groups financial results.
strategy, holding the Executive team accountable for its execution.
We ensure that we have and will have the most talented leadership, both within the Executive team and on the Board.
We always ask, What is the right The Group holds all normal business insurance cover including employers liability, thing to do?
so that everyone involved with PageGroup can continue to be proud of us.
My job is to make sure public liability and professional indemnity insurance.
Contracts include clauses to ensure PageGroups rights are protected.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the running of the business and therefore must be equipped with the character, skills and experience required to direct a global recruitment consultancy with large ambitions.
Over the last two years we have built a strong, well balanced Board which operates in a trusting and honest Foreign Exchange translation risk Our strategy of continued geographical diversification reduces our exposure to environment.
During 2013 this team made good progress and the Board is well positioned for the coming year.
The Group does not actively attempt to hedge the exposure from 73% of the Groups operating profit is translation risk as this is a reporting risk only and not an operational risk.
We were delighted to appoint Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2013.
Danutas derived from operations outside the considerable international experience, both in line leadership roles and non-executive directorships, will be UK, so material changes in the strength The Group does not have material transactional currency exposures nor is there a very valuable.
Her background in technology as well as in sales and marketing is also particularly useful.
With of sterling against the main functional material exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
Danutas appointment, we have added another talented woman to your Board.
Given the gender mix of our currencies could have an adverse effect on clients, candidates and staff, it is a strategic as well as a governance imperative to improve the diversity of the Note 21 to the financial statements includes a sensitivity analysis showing the effect the Groups reported sterling profits in the Board.
We will continue to seek to add to your Board people who have the character, skills and experience the of a 10% strengthening of sterling against other key currencies.
The main functional business requires.
currencies in addition to sterling, are the The recruitment industry is more exposed to global economic troubles than many other sectors.
As a result, Euro, Australian Dollar, US Dollar, Chinese the Group has operated in a difficult environment for the last few years.
A high quality Board applying strong Renminbi and Brazilian Real.
corporate governance, including rigorous risk management, has been particularly useful during this time.
Going forward your Board, within this strong governance framework, will continue to challenge and support management as they implement our strategies for growth.
Further details of how PageGroup is governed and how the Board is run are laid out in the pages that follow.
Robin Buchanan Chairman 4 March 2014 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 49 50 Strategic Report Corporate Governance
