CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM or awards pursuant to the terms of the legacy share schemes In addition, the structure of remuneration for a new Executive Good leavers awards normally vest at the usual time unless Choice of performance measures and granted prior to the date that this policy takes effect.
Details Director may differ temporarily from that in effect for other the Committee determines, in exceptional circumstances, target setting of any such payments will be set out in the Directors Annual Executive Directors.
The circumstances in which this may that they should vest earlier.
In addition, awards normally will Information on performance measures and targets for each annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
occur are set out below: be pro-rated to reflect the time served since the award date award is disclosed in detail in the Directors Annual Remuneration unless the Committee determines otherwise but are always when it is appropriate to offer a below market salary Report.
When choosing performance measures and setting targets based on the achievement of any performance conditions.
Consistency with remuneration for the initially, a series of salary increases may be given over the Committee is guided by the following principles: In the case of death, all awards will vest immediately subject wider group the following few years subject to individual performance to any performance criteria but with no time pro-rating.
performance measures should drive and reward the and experience in role which bring the incumbent to the The Committee reviews and considers remuneration across achievement of key short and long-term financial and determined salary level, reflective of the policy to pay Under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Long-term Incentive PageGroup when setting the Executive Director remuneration strategic goals market competitive salaries Plan, awards will also vest on the occurrence of a corporate policy.
Remuneration levels for all employees are set in the performance measures should provide alignment between event affecting the Company based on the achievement of any different performance measures may be set initially for context of internal relativities and market levels of remuneration for the interests of management and those of shareholders performance conditions.
Awards normally will be pro-rated the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities comparable roles.
Policy for Executive Directors differs from other to reflect the time to the date of the relevant event unless the a significant proportion of any incentive scheme should be of the individual and the point in the financial year that senior executives in that Executive Director variable remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
linked to Group financial performance they joined is capped, whereas for other senior executives it is uncapped.
PBT and EPS are used currently because they are key This is in line with practice in the recruitment industry where the Committee may agree that the Company will meet The extent to which any awards made under legacy share measures of business performance and profitability variable remuneration is funded from an uncapped profit pool.
certain costs associated with the recruitment for example plans prior to the effective date of this policy would vest upon This arrangement provides a strong incentive for employees legal fees cessation of employment would be determined in accordance Strategic measures in the annual bonus arrangements are specific to grow PageGroup profit and is a fundamental part of our with their terms.
to the individual and reward the delivery of key strategic objectives remuneration policy.
Policy on payment for loss of office for the business.
In considering the exercise of discretion as set out above, the Committee will take into account all relevant targets for financial and strategic measures should be stretching On termination, any compensation payments due to an Executive shareholding guidelines circumstances.
Factors that the Committee may but shall yet achievable, and set with reference to internal plans and Executive Director are calculated in accordance with normal not be obliged to take into account will include, but not be external expectations Shareholding guidelines are operated to align Executive Directors legal principles, including mitigation, as appropriate.
Should limited to, the following: interests with those of shareholders.
The current guideline is 200% notice be served by either party, an Executive Director can targets should not incentivise excessive risk taking of salary and will be achieved through the retention of half of any continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the the best interests of the Company vesting share awards, net of tax.
duration of his notice period during which time the Company the contribution of the Executive Director to the success Legacy arrangements may require the individual to continue to fulfil his current duties of the Company during their tenure This would normally be expected to be achieved within five years.
In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy Report, authority or may place the individual on garden leave.
The Company Executive Director shareholdings are disclosed annually in the the need to ensure continuity is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into can make a payment in lieu of notice PILON as a lump sum Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
the need to compromise any claims that the Executive with current or former Directors such as the payment of a pension equivalent to the amount of base salary, benefits and pension Director may have that would have been payable to the executive.
This payment can be phased over the remainder of the notice period whether the Executive Director received a PILON payment Our approach to recruitment and be subject to reduction if there are alternative earnings.
whether a greater proportion of the outstanding award The phasing and reduction of PILON will not apply to The Committee intends to structure the remuneration package of any new Executive Director as set out in the table below: may have vested had the Executive Director served out Executive Directors in post at 31 December 2013.
A payment his notice may be made in respect of accrued but untaken holiday.
Element of whether the Executive Director has presided over an remuneration External recruits Internal recruits In respect of annual bonus, an Executive Director who ceases orderly handover employment or is under notice prior to the payment of bonus Ongoing The remuneration package may include any The remuneration package may include any of the adjustment of performance outcomes to ensure that payout may, if the individual is considered by the Committee in its remuneration of the elements set out in the Future Policy Table elements set out in the Future Policy Table for is fair and reasonable in the context of the Companys discretion to be a good leaver, receive a payment in cash.
overall performance Any payment would be on a pro-rata basis reflecting the Ongoing remuneration will be subject to the Ongoing remuneration will be subject to the maximum period of time served from the start of the financial year to maximum levels as set out in the approved levels as set out in the approved remuneration policy the date of termination or to the date of notice and or garden remuneration policy in force at the time of in force at the time of appointment.
As a result, the leave, if earlier, other than where the Committee decides appointment.
As a result, the maximum level of maximum level of variable remuneration is 375% of salary.
Any bonus paid variable remuneration is 375% of salary excluding would normally be subject to the normal bonus targets, any buy out payments as referred to below.
although the Committee may modify these in exceptional circumstances, taking into account the individuals role during the year of termination, and provided that any new targets are Treatment of May offer additional cash and or share-based Any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior no easier than the original targets.
outstanding awards elements when considered to be in the best interests role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms of variable of the Company and, therefore, shareholders, in order on grant.
Under the rules of the new Deferred Bonus Plan and the remuneration to buy out forfeited remuneration.
new Long-term Incentive Plan, each as approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, outstanding awards vest Any buy-out payments would be based solely on if an Executive Director dies or leaves for a specified remuneration lost when leaving the former good leaver reason, including: employer and would be on terms that are no more favourable than the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, redundancy, retirement, injury or disability shares, options and time horizons.
Where a transfer of employment in connection with the disposal of forfeited remuneration is performance related, any a business or undertaking buy-out payment would be subject to performance conditions determined by the Committee.
the company with which the Executive Director holds office The Committee may need to avail itself of the or employment ceasing to be a member of the Group current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R to make such awards In all other circumstances awards will lapse, provided that the where doing so is necessary to facilitate, in Committee has discretion to determine otherwise, in which exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of case the provisions applicable to good leavers will apply.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 71 72 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report
