CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Executive Committee is a committee of the Board and is known within PageGroup as the Executive Board.
Steve Ingham Mark Lockton-Goddard Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Chief Information Officer THE BOARD See biography on page 51.
Mark joined PageGroup from  where The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls he was a Director in the Business and Technology Transformation which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
Patrick Hollard Consulting business for three years.
Prior to that he worked for More details on pages 55 to 60. other Big 4 accounting and consulting firms for over fifteen years.
Executive Board Director, Latin America, Southern & Western In that time he assisted a range of FTSE 250 businesses across USA multiple market sectors, including recruitment and professional services, to reduce complexity and drive operational performance Patrick joined Michael Page in France in 1996, having worked through the better use of technology.
previously for KPMG Peat Marwick.
Prior to that, he had been Vice-President of AISEC International, the student led organisation, Kelvin Stagg from 1991 to 1992.
Appointed Director in 1999, he moved to Sao CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL NOMINATION COMMITTEE Paulo to launch Michael Page Brazil, and then launched offices in Acting Chief Financial Officer OFFICER CEO OFFICER CFO Responsible for ensuring that the Mexico in 2006, Argentina in 2008, Chile in 2010 and Colombia in Company has the executive and Kelvin joined PageGroup in July 2006 as Group Finance Controller 2011.
Appointed Regional Managing Director in 2007, he is now Key responsibility is to develop Responsible for managing the non-executive Board leadership and Company Secretary.
Prior to joining PageGroup, Kelvin spent responsible for PageGroups operations in Latin America, and and deliver the Groups strategy financial risks, reporting and it requires.
six years at Allied Domecq and three years at Unilever in a variety Southern and Western USA.
within the policies and values planning of the Group.
He has significant international experience Details on page 61. established by the Board.
Details on page 56. and has high levels of compliance, change management, large Gary James Details on page 56. teams and systems experience, across almost every finance Executive Board Director, Asia Pacific discipline.
He is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Kelvin was appointed Acting CFO in October 2013 and he held the title of Gary joined Michael Page Finance in London in 1984.
He was Company Secretary up until December 2013. appointed Director of Michael Page UK Sales & Marketing in 1994 and Managing Director of Michael Page UK Marketing Oliver Watson in 1997.
In 2002 he transferred to the USA on his appointment EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE as Managing Director of our business in North America.
He was Executive Board Director, UK, Middle East, South Africa, The Executive Committee is Responsible for the integrity of the appointed Managing Director of the Asia Pacific region in August Eastern USA & Canada chaired by the CEO and includes Companys financial statements 2006, based initially in Australia and more recently in Singapore.
Oliver joined Michael Page in 1995 as a consultant in London.
The Committee is and performance, ensuring the He was appointed Director of Michael Page UK Sales in 1997 responsible for overseeing necessary internal controls and risk Fabrice Lacombe and then Managing Director in 2002.
In 2006, he was appointed operations in our regions and for management systems are in place Executive Board Director, France, Central & Eastern Europe Regional Managing Director for Michael Page UK Sales, Marketing overseeing business operational and effective.
In 2007, he launched Michael Page Middle East and functions Group-wide.
Fabrice joined Michael Page Finance in 1994 as a consultant Details on page 63. has since developed our office network across the region.
In 1996, he launched Michael Page Engineering and Details on page 55. he became Regional Managing Director for Michael Page UK became a Director in 1998.
In 1999, he was appointed Executive Finance, Marketing and Sales, Middle East, Scotland and Ireland.
Director and then, in 2001, Managing Director of Michael Page He is now responsible for PageGroup operations in the UK, Middle France.
He launched Michael Page Africa in 2005 and in 2007 took East, South Africa, Eastern USA and Canada.
responsibility for Page Personnel France.
He became Regional Managing Director for France and Africa in 2010.
He is now COMPANY SECRETARY REMUNERATION responsible for PageGroup operations in France, and Central and Kelvin Stagg Acting Chief Financial Officer COMMITTEE Responsible for ensuring the Board Eastern Europe.
comply with all legal, regulatory and Responsible for the review, Olivier Lemaitre governance requirements.
recommendation and implementation of the Groups remuneration strategy, Details on page 56.
Executive Board Director, Continental Europe & Africa its framework and cost Olivier joined Michael Page Finance in Paris in 1997, having Details on page 67. worked previously as a Controller for Renault in Poland.
In 1999, he moved to Sao Paulo to launch Michael Page Brazil, before returning to Europe in November 2002 to lead our Michael Page Frankfurt office.
He was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Germany in 2004.
In 2007, he was appointed Regional Managing Director in charge of Austria, Belgium, Germany, Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Holland, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
He is now responsible During the year ended 31 December 2013 and to the date of this document, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate for PageGroups operations in Continental Europe and North and Governance Code 2012 the Code.
The Code is publicly available on the FRC website www.
In the following Corporate Governance West Africa.
section, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on page 67 and the Directors Report on page 87, we describe how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 53 54 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
