CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Annual Incentivise the At least half based on audited financial measures, such as Maximum award of Bonus delivery of annual Profit Before Tax.
No more than one half assessed against other 175% of salary.
Variable financial and strategic targets.
pay strategic targets Any strategic element will be payable only if the Committee is also satisfied in the circumstances with the underlying performance of PageGroup is a global business that operates in a cyclical act as an effective retention tool during market downturns.
industry in which the retention of key executives and management The Committee believes that the best way to implement Performance below the threshold of the financial performance continuity is critical to the success of the Company.
As a result, such a policy is to pay competitive market salaries, profit target will result in zero payment of the financial element of the the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in this report has based bonuses, which are not subject to excessive annual annual bonus.
Payments rise from 20% to 100% of the maximum been designed to encourage long-term decision making, to fluctuations, and a long-term incentive plan based on a opportunity for levels of performance between the threshold and remove undue volatility from remuneration outcomes, and to longer term performance horizon.
Clawback provisions will be put in place for misstatement and misconduct.
The Remuneration Policy set out below will take effect, subject to shareholder approval, from 5 June 2014 the date of the AGM.
Deferred Focus Executive The terms of the new Deferred Bonus Plan, as referred to below, Not applicable FUTURE POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Bonus Plan Directors on were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
see Annual Bonus Variable long-term section above.
Compulsory deferral in shares applies to any annual bonus payment Purpose and link pay performance and above a hurdle of 125% of salary.
The Committee can lower the Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity align the interests hurdle for compulsory deferral.
of Executive Salary Attract, retain Salary levels and subsequent increases are set after reviewing Current CEO salary Deferred shares vest in equal amounts after one and two years.
Directors with Fixed pay and reward high various factors including individual and Company performance, role level is 565,000 which Deferred shares are not subject to further performance conditions shareholders calibre Executive and responsibility, internal relativities such as the increases awarded can be increased in line as they are awarded in lieu of previously earned annual bonus.
Directors to other employees and prevailing market levels for Executive with the parameters set Dividends accrue or are paid on unvested awards over the Directors at companies of comparable status and market value, out under the column vesting period.
taking into account the total remuneration package.
Clawback provisions are in place for misstatement Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
Aim for market and misconduct.
Salary is paid monthly and increases are generally effective from 1 January.
Salaries will not increase Long-term Incentivise share The terms of the new Long-term Incentive Plan, as referred to Maximum award of by more than RPI 5% Incentive ownership and below, were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
except increases in Plan long-term excess of this may be Awards are granted in the form of restricted shares or Variable performance in awarded in the case of nil-cost options.
pay line with Group new Executive Directors Awards have a performance period of at least three financial years.
strategy where it is appropriate At least 62.5% of any award is based on financial measures, such to offer a below market as EPS.
salary initially on At least 12.5% of any award will be based on relative growth appointment and a series compared to a peer group.
of staged increases, subject to performance The remainder of any award is subject to performance measures and experience in role, based on long-term strategic objectives, such as people and to bring to a market leadership development, strategy development, IT strategy and competitive salary.
Corporate Centre development, which are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration in the year of grant.
Performance below the threshold of the performance target for the financial performance results in no vesting for the financial element Benefits Attract, retain Competitive benefits including car allowance or company car Competitive benefits in of the LTIP award.
For performance between the threshold target Fixed pay and reward high including running costs, private medical insurance for the line with market practice.
and maximum target, vesting starts at 25% and rises to 100%.
calibre Executive individual and family, permanent health insurance and four times Directors salary life assurance.
There is no opportunity to re-test performance measures.
Provision of relocation assistance and any associated costs or Vested shares must be held for a further two years if the Provision of benefits including but not limited to housing benefits, personal shareholding guideline set out below in the section opportunities for tax advice and school fees upon appointment if when applicable.
Executive shareholding guidelines has not been met.
connecting with The Company may also provide tax equalisation arrangements.
Dividends accrue or are paid on unvested awards over the clients, investors vesting period.
Membership of clubs as appropriate for the development and staff to of business.
facilitate growth Clawback provisions are in place for misstatement and misconduct.
strategy Pension Attract, retain Executive Directors may receive a defined contribution pension CEO: 25% of salary.
Fixed pay and fairly reward benefit or cash supplement.
Other Executive high calibre Directors: 20% of salary.
Executive Directors PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 69 70 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report
