CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM What is the purpose of the Committee?
What were the main activities and decisions of the Committee during the year?
The Committee is responsible for the review, recommendation and implementation of the Groups remuneration strategy, its The main activities and decisions of the Committee since the framework and cost, ensuring that the Executive Directors and last report were: other senior executives are fairly and responsibly rewarded.
consultation with shareholders and shareholder bodies with regard to remuneration policy What are its key responsibilities?
reviewing and approving rules of new share plans prior to to monitor and make recommendations to the Board on approval at the 2013 AGM the policy of remuneration for the Chairman of the Board, the Executive Directors and other senior executives of reviewing shareholder voting on remuneration matters the Group following the 2013 AGM within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the monitoring executives progress on strategic objectives total remuneration packages for the Executive Directors reviewing new reporting regulations regarding remuneration and other senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments, share awards, pension rights and any the appointment of new remuneration advisors following a compensation on termination of office re-tendering process to ensure compliance with current regulations and principles an annual review and approval of salaries of the Chief of good governance Executive Officer and other senior executives to review the design of all share option and share incentive the approval of bonuses and share plan awards for plans, and any changes thereto, for approval by the Board the executives based on the achievement of pre-set and shareholders and to determine each year whether performance targets for 2013 awards will be made DIRECTORS I hope that you will feel able to support the resolutions on to prepare a Directors Remuneration Report for inclusion in remuneration proposed at the AGM.
the Annual Report and Accounts REMUNERATION REPORT through the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, David Lowden to maintain contact with shareholders with regard to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee PageGroup remuneration matters David Lowden Remuneration Committee Chairman 4 March 2014 Who attends meetings of the Committee?
ANNUAL STATEMENT Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
However, the During the year, I have consulted with many of our significant Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer are normally I am delighted to present the Directors Remuneration Report investors and shareholder representative bodies and the invited to attend meetings except when their own remuneration in accordance with the new regulations on the disclosure and Committee has reviewed the guidance on remuneration reporting is under consideration.
Other advisors are also invited to approval of directors remuneration.
Accordingly, this report produced by the GC100 and Investor Group.
Their views were attend meetings as required, for example the Group Human includes the following: taken into account in devising our remuneration policy and in Resources Director and the Groups remuneration consultants, the Remuneration Policy Report pages 69 to 74 which will be presenting our report.
A significant proportion of remuneration New Bridge Street.
No Director is involved in deciding his or subject to a binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming is performance based and delivered through shares.
Our bonus her own remuneration.
AGM and every three years thereafter deferral policy and shareholding guidelines also encourage ongoing commitment to the business and align the motives of the Directors Annual Remuneration Report pages 75 to 86 executives with those of shareholders.
which describes how our Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2013 and how we intend to apply the policy in 2014 and will Who is on our Remuneration Committee?
be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM During the early part of 2013 we finalised our review of the Percentage of remuneration structure which had served us well over the previous meetings decade but which we felt needed to be rebalanced to encourage Director From A B attended longer term decision making.
Our proposed revised policy on Executive Directors Remuneration was outlined in our 2012 David Lowden Annual Report, issued in March 2013.
That policy now forms Committee the basis of the policy described in the Remuneration Policy Chairman 22 Aug 2012 8 8 100% Report and on which you will have an opportunity to vote at our Simon Boddie 24 Sept 2012 8 8 100% forthcoming AGM.
Danuta Gray 10 Dec 2013 1 1 100% Our policy is guided by the objective of attracting and retaining high calibre executives.
Management continuity and retention is Ruby McGregorparticularly critical in the PageGroup business which has built its Smith 23 May 2007 8 7 88% success on organic growth and promotion from within.
The policy Tim Miller 15 Aug 2005 8 6 75% aims to create a strong  environment which rewards achievement of meaningful targets over the short A Maximum number of meetings the Director could have attended and long-term.
Short-term incentives are reinforced by longB Number of meetings the Director actually attended term performance measures which support our strategic focus The instances of non-attendance arose where the Director had on profitability, organic growth and the creation of sustainable a conflict with another business meeting.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 67 68 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report
