CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our business is led by our Board of Directors the Board.
Biographical details of the Directors as at 4 March 2014 are as follows: Danuta Gray Independent Non-Executive Director Robin Buchanan Chairman Skills and Experience: Danuta was Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until December 2012, having Skills and Experience: Prior to joining the Board of Michael Page, Robin served as Dean and President previously been its Chief Executive from 2001 to 2010.
Prior to that, Danuta was a Senior Vice President of London Business School and as the Senior Partner of Bain & Company in the United Kingdom.
Past for BT Europe in Germany and during her career gained experience in sales, marketing, customer Board appointments include Bain & Company Inc, Shire plc and Liberty International plc.
Robin qualified service and technology and in leading and changing large businesses.
She previously served for seven as a Chartered Accountant with a predecessor firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu.
years on the board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was a director of Business in the Community Other current appointments: Ireland and Aer Lingus plc.
Non-Executive Director, Schroders plc Non-Executive Director, Lyondell Basell Industries NV Other current appointments: Member of Remuneration Committee, Coller Capital Ltd Senior Advisor to Bain & Company Member of the International Advisory Council of Recipco Non-Executive Director, Old Mutual plc Non-Executive Director, Paddy Power plc Date of Appointment: Director August 2011, Chairman December 2011 Date of Appointment: December 2013 | Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Board Committees: Nomination Committee Chairman David Lowden Independent Non-Executive Director Steve Ingham Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director Skills and Experience: Steve joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Page Marketing Skills and Experience: David was a member of the Board of TNS plc, the marketing services business, and Sales.
He was responsible for setting up the London Marketing and Sales businesses and was from 1999 to 2009, becoming Chief Executive Officer in 2006.
Before joining TNS plc David held senior promoted to Operating Director in 1990.
He was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page finance positions in Asprey plc, A. C. Nielsen Corporation and Federal Express Corporation.
Subsequently Steve took additional responsibility for Michael Pages Retail, Other current appointments: Technology, Human Resources and Engineering businesses.
He was promoted to the Board as Executive Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Berensden plc Director of UK Operations in February 2001 and subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, William Hill plc Chairman, May 2005.
Steve was appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2006.
Rice 2 Limited Other current appointments: Date of Appointment: August 2012 | Board Committees: Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Non-Executive Director, Debenhams plc Member of the Corporate Partnership Board, Great Ormond Street Hospital Date of Appointment: Director February 2001, Chief Executive Officer April 2006 | Board Committees: None Tim Miller Independent Non-Executive Director Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Senior Independent Director Skills and Experience: Tim was appointed a Director of Standard Chartered Bank in December 2004.
Skills and Experience: Ruby is the Chief Executive of Mitie Group plc.
She qualified as a Chartered In July 2013 he was appointed Vice-Chairman, Governance as well as continuing to be Chairman of Accountant with BDO Stoy Hayward.
In December 2002 Ruby joined MITIE Group PLC as Group Finance Standard Chartered Bank Korea.
Director and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in September 2005 before being appointed CEO in March 2007.
Other current appointments: Director, Standard Chartered Bank Chairman of the Environment Committee, Standard Chartered Other current appointments: Bank Chairman, Standard Chartered Korea Chairman of Governors, School of Oriental & African Chief Executive Officer MITIE Group PLC Member of Board of Trustees, Business in the Community Studies and Member of the School Advisory Board Special Professor of Strategy, Nottingham Chairperson of the Womens Business Council University Business School Date of Appointment: May 2007 | Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Date of Appointment: August 2005 | Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Simon Boddie Independent Non-Executive Director Kelvin Stagg Elaine Marriner Acting Chief Financial Officer Skills and Experience: Simon is a Chartered Accountant and has been Group Finance Director of Company Secretary Electrocomponents plc since September 2005.
Simon joined Electrocomponents plc from Diageo Appointed 14 October 2013.
Appointed 10 December 2013. where he held a variety of senior finance positions over a 13 year career, latterly as Finance Director See page 53 for biography.
Prior to this appointment of Key Markets.
Elaine was Company Secretary and General Other current appointments: Counsel of HMV Group plc.
Group Finance Director, Electrocomponents plc Date of Appointment: September 2012 | Board Committees: Audit Chairman, Remuneration, Nomination PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 51 52 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
