CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM What is the purpose of the Committee?
What were the main activities of the Committee during the year?
The Nomination Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Company has the executive and non-executive Board The main activities of the Committee during the year were leadership it requires, both now and in the future.
focused on succession planning throughout the business including the appointment of an additional Non-Executive What are its key responsibilities?
The Company was assisted in its search for a new Non-Executive Director by an independent executive search to assess and nominate members to the Board company, The Zygos Partnership, which has no connection to maintain the right mix of character, skills and experience with the Company other than the provision of this service.
on the Board and its committees A detailed role profile was agreed by the Committee and candidates were identified and selected on merit against to make recommendations to the Board on succession and objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of development plans for members of both the Board and diversity on the Board, including gender.
A shortlist of senior management candidates was interviewed by the Chairman of the Board, to approve job descriptions and written terms of the Chief Executive Officer and members of the Nomination appointment for Directors Committee.
As described in the Chairmans Statement, this resulted in a recommendation to the Board of the appointment to review the independence of Non-Executive Directors, of Danuta Gray.
Danuta joined the Board as a Non-Executive taking into account their other directorships.
Director on 10 December 2013. Who attends meetings?
The Board was also delighted to appoint Elaine Marriner as Company Secretary on the same date.
Only the members of the Committee are entitled to attend the meetings.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive Officer, What is the plan for 2014?
the Group Human Resources Director and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and The Committee will continue to review the size of the Board when appropriate and necessary.
and its mix of skills and experience.
Robin Buchanan Chairman NOMINATION COMMITTEE 4 March 2014 REPORT Who is on our Nomination Committee?
Nomination Committee Chairmans Overview During the year the Committee has focused on strengthening, Percentage broadening and balancing the range of skills, experience and of meetings diversity on the Board and its Committees.
We were delighted Director From A B attended to secure the appointment of Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director on 10 December 2013.
Robin Buchanan Committee The Board follows formal and transparent procedures when Chairman 10 Aug 2011 7 7 100% appointing Directors, with appointments being made on merit against objective criteria.
All shortlisted candidates are interviewed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Simon Boddie 24 Sept 2012 7 6 86% with the final shortlist of candidates being interviewed by the Nomination Committee members.
Thereafter a recommendation Danuta Gray 10 Dec 2013 1 1 100% of appointment is made to the Board.
Diversity at Board level is as important as diversity at every other David Lowden 22 Aug 2012 7 6 86% level in the business.
It is our policy to seek diversity in order to Ruby McGregorcreate a talented high-performing Board with a suitable mix of Smith 23 May 2007 7 7 100% experience and capability.
Tim Miller 15 Aug 2005 7 6 86% A Maximum number of meetings the Director could have attended B Number of meetings the Director actually attended The instances of non-attendance arose where the Director had a conflict with another business meeting.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 61 62 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
