CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM To maintain their effectiveness it is essential for all Directors to The main areas for improvement cited were the need for further HOW OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK OPERATES be kept up to date with the business, corporate governance, development of the strategy, greater attention to development legal and regulatory matters as they develop.
This is achieved and succession plans for the most senior executives, additional through the following: time to be spent on risk management, and the beefing up of the company secretarial support function.
presentations on different aspects of the Companys As a result of these recommendations the Board agreed to: business from members of the Executive Committee Board Attendance in 2013 EFFECTIVENESS or other members of senior management develop further its approach to strategic planning Attendance at meetings of the Board is summarised below: The Board annually reviews its composition to ensure there is increase its focus on development and succession planning, the Non-Executive Directors meet senior operational an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive especially for our most senior positions management at the annual global senior management Percentage Directors and an appropriate mix of skills, experience, and conference develop further its approach to risk management of meetings knowledge to enable the Directors to effectively discharge their Director A B attended appoint a dedicated Company Secretary respective duties and responsibilities.
financial plans, including budgets and forecasts are regularly discussed at Board meetings Good progress has already been made in all of these areas: Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Robin Buchanan Chairman 10 10 100% the Board held a well received Strategy Day with an in-depth feedback from investor road shows is provided to the review of the economics of our business model: we have The Code suggests that length of tenure is one factor to consider Directors via reports from the Companys brokers appointed a Group Human Resources Director with the when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Steve Ingham CEO 10 10 100% Directors are provided with written briefings and meetings to specific remit of ensuring that we further upgrade the The table below shows the tenure and independence of the Board keep them up to date on legal, regulatory and governance development and succession plans of our most important Chairman and each of our Non-Executive Directors.
The Board matters by the Company Secretary, the Companys Auditors executives: a review of the Groups risk management process considers all Non-Executive directors to be independent.
Andrew Bracey CFO 9 8 89% and other external advisers where appropriate was undertaken as reported on page 45 in the Strategic Report Years Ruby McGregorsection and is being developed further in 2014: and the Board from The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director Smith SID 10 9 90% has appointed Elaine Marriner as a dedicated, experienced first Considtheir training needs.
In particular, the Chairman discusses Company Secretary.
Date first electered to be development and training requirements with individual elected by ion to independSimon Boddie NED 10 10 100% Directors as part of their annual performance evaluation.
Succession Planning share- 2014 ent by the Director holders AGM Board Executive succession planning discussions were held in the Performance evaluation summer focusing especially on succession candidates for David Lowden NED 10 9 90% In line with the Code, the Board undertakes a formal and the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
This Robin Buchanan Chairman May 2012 2 Note 1 rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance, that of was particularly useful given the then Chief Financial Officers Ruby McGregorTim Miller NED 10 8 80% its Committees and its individual Directors.
The Chairman departure in October allowing the Board to appoint Kelvin Smith SID May 2007 7 Yes holds meetings with the Directors to appraise their individual Stagg, Acting Chief Financial Officer.
performance and the Senior Independent Director meets with Danuta Gray NED 1 1 100% Succession and development planning is a critical part of the the Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, Simon Boddie NED June 2013 1 Yes Chief Executive Officers performance objectives for annual to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
A Maximum number of meetings the Director could have attended bonus and long-term remuneration.
In 2013 the evaluation was undertaken by an external B Number of meetings the Director actually attended David Lowden NED June 2013 1 Yes Re-election of Directors facilitator.
As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, this external Andrew Bracey resigned as CFO on 11 October 2013 and he did not evaluation had originally been planned for 2012 but was Danuta Gray, who was appointed a Director since the last attend the Board meeting on the day prior to his resignation Tim Miller NED May 2006 8 Yes delayed until 2013 due to the extensive changes to the Board Annual General Meeting AGM, will stand for election at the Danuta Gray was appointed on 10 December 2013 made during 2012.
A thorough performance evaluation was forthcoming AGM.
All other Directors shall, in accordance Standing The other instances of non-attendance arose where the Director had a undertaken over the period April to June 2013 by Ffion Hague with the Code, submit themselves for annual re-election at conflict with another business meeting.
for election of Independent Board Evaluation, a specialist in such reviews.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting are provided with full sets of Danuta Gray NED June 2014 n a Yes briefing papers and can discuss any matters with the Chairman and or Mrs Hague has no other connection with the Company.
The Following the annual performance evaluation, the Board Chief Executive Officer.
Note 1: Robin Buchanan was considered to be independent on his review was conducted through Board and Committee meeting considers that each Director continues to be effective appointment as Chairman observations and interviews with each of the Directors and key and has demonstrated commitment to their role.
The Company Secretary non-Board contributors.
Board, therefore, strongly supports their re-election at the Board appointments and diversity All Directors have access to the advice and services of the The findings of this external evaluation process were forthcoming AGM.
Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board presented in report format and then discussed with the The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board Conflicts of interest procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
Board performance was discussed with the appointments.
A description of the Nomination Committee There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent The Company has implemented robust procedures, in line whole Board.
Feedback regarding Board Committees was and its work can be found on page 61. professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
with the Companies Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek presented to the Chairman of the Board and to the relevant appropriate authorisation from the Board prior to entering into Committee Chairmen.
Individual Board member reports were Commitment Induction and training programme any outside business interests which have, or could have, a presented to the Chairman of the Board who subsequently direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the To enable Executive Directors to gain external Board exposure The Chairman is responsible for the induction of new directors had one-to-one discussions with each of the Directors.
The Nomination Committee is responsible as part of their personal development, whilst at the same time and is assisted by the Company Secretary.
On appointment to A report on the Chairman of the Board was presented to for reviewing any potential conflicts of interest.
It makes ensuring that sufficient time and focus is spent on the Companys the Board, each Director discusses with the Chairman and the the Senior Independent Director who then consulted with recommendations to the Board as to whether such a conflict business, the Board has established a policy permitting Executive Company Secretary the extent of training required.
A tailored the other Non-Executive Directors before giving feedback to should be authorised and the terms and conditions on which Directors to hold external non-executive directorships, subject to induction programme to cover their individual requirements is then the Chairman.
any such authorisation should be given by the Board.
The Executive Directors are allowed to retain compiled.
Elements of the programme typically consist of meeting The main message from this evaluation process was that Directors without an interest in the matter being considered any fees from their Non-Executive Director roles.
Details of these senior management, site visits, attending internal conferences and the PageGroup Board was bedding down well after very will be involved in the decision and each Director must act in fees are shown in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report consultant shadowing to understand the day-to-day activities of considerable change in the previous 18 months a new a way they consider, in good faith, will promote the success of on page 86. a recruitment consultant.
In addition, information is provided on Chairman, two of the three Executive Directors and two the Group.
All Directors are aware of their continuing obligation the Companys services, Group structure, Board arrangements, The external commitments of the Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors departing, the appointment of a new to report any new interests, or changes in existing interests, financial information, major competitors and major risks.
disclosed, together with their biographies, on pages 51 and 52.
Chief Financial Officer and two new Non-Executive Directors.
that might amount to a possible conflict of interest in order The content of the induction programme is reviewed annually to Their key commitments are reviewed each year to ensure they The feedback from the Board members and senior executives that these may be considered by the Board and appropriate ensure it remains relevant and appropriate.
are able to give sufficient time to their PageGroup responsibilities.
within the Company was distinctly positive.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 57 58 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
