CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM The notice of the AGM is on page 127.
Voting on all resolutions RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS HOW OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK OPERATES at the next AGM will be by way of a poll.
The results of shareholder voting are published on the Companys website Board contact with shareholders and announced via the Regulatory News Service after the Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The majority of contact between the Board and shareholders is through the Chief Executive Officer and the Acting Chief Annual Report and Accounts Key elements of our system of internal control are as follows: ACCOUNTABILITY Financial Officer who make themselves available, where The Annual Report and Accounts is designed to present possible, to meet with shareholders and analysts at their Group organisation Responsibilities a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Groups request.
These meetings frequently take place in the UK but The Board of Directors meets at least nine times a year, position and prospects and, therefore, is an important part The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the preparation also in other countries when the Chief Executive Officer and focusing both on strategic issues and operational and financial of our communication with shareholders.
We welcome the of the Annual Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities the Acting Chief Financial Officer are visiting on business.
There is also a defined policy on matters reserved introduction this year of the Strategic Report as a separate is shown in the Directors Report on page 90.
A statement by the The Group has a website with an investor section strictly for the Board.
The Regional Managing Director of each of section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It includes a Auditor concerning their reporting responsibilities is shown in the www.
com investors that contains Company our four regions is accountable for establishing and monitoring description of the Groups objectives, strategy and business Independent Auditors Report on page 92.
A statement regarding announcements and other shareholder information.
Quarterly internal controls within their respective divisions.
model, the main trends and factors affecting the Company, going concern is included in the Directors Report on page 89. trading updates are presented live by conference call with a description of the key risks facing the business, the key Annual Business Plan Strategy slide presentations and live telephone question and answer performance indicators, an analysis of the development and The Board reviews the Group strategy and approves an annual sessions.
These conference calls are recorded and made A detailed explanation of the basis on which the Company performance of the business, and disclosures around the Group budget.
Performance is then monitored by the Board available on our website.
Live presentations of preliminary generates value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering environment, employees, social issues, and diversity.
through the review of monthly reports showing comparisons of annual and interim results announcements are made to the objectives of the Company is included in the Strategic Report The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders results against budget, quarterly forecasts and the prior year, analysts and shareholders and these can also be found on on pages 7 to 49. on our Register and is also available on our website.
with explanations provided for significant variances.
An interim report is also produced at the end of the half Risk Management and Internal Control The Chief Executive Officer and the Acting Chief Financial year and this is available for download from our website Policies and Procedures Officer also undertake two major investor road shows each www.
Internal control Policies and procedures are documented over both financial year in the Spring and Autumn, in which numerous one-to-one controls and non-quantifiable areas such as the Groups The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of meetings are held with shareholders.
The outcome of these Whistleblowing policy and Code of Conduct and Ethics.
The procedures established by the Board provide meetings and the views of shareholders are then relayed back an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Risk Management to the Board by the Companys corporate brokers.
The Groups significant risks and implementing the Turnbull Guidance, Internal corporate brokers also report monthly to the Board on broking The Board has established a framework for identifying and Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
activity during the month and any issues that may have been managing risk, both at a strategic and operational level.
The system of internal control includes financial and operational raised with them.
An overview of this framework and a summary of the principal controls which are designed to meet the Groups particular risks identified, together with mitigating actions, can be found When requested by shareholders, individual matters can be needs.
They aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure that proper in the Strategic Report on pages 45 to 49. discussed with the Chairman or, if appropriate, the Senior accounting records are maintained and that the financial Independent Director.
In addition, the Chairman of the information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Internal Audit Remuneration Committee is available to discuss remuneration Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not The Group Internal Audit Function examines business matters with shareholders.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
processes throughout the Group on a risk basis and reports to the Audit Committee.
In practice the Board delegates the implementation of the Boards Annual General Meeting AGM policy on risk and control to executive management and this is Confirmations from Executive Management All shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM.
It provides an monitored by an independent Internal Audit Function which reports ideal opportunity for investors, including private investors, to The Managing Director and Finance Director of our operations back to the Board through the Audit Committee.
raise any questions with the Board and the Chairmen of the in each country formally certify annually whether the business Standing Committees, as well as an opportunity to vote on has adhered to the system of internal control during the period the formal resolutions.
Shareholders are free to ask questions including compliance with Group policies.
The statement also of the Board formally during the meeting and also informally requires the reporting of any significant control issues that have following the end of the formal business.
emerged, including suspected or reported fraud, so that areas of Group concern can be identified and investigated as required.
These confirmations and supporting Controls Self Assessment Questionnaires are reviewed by the Internal Audit Function and a summary of findings is provided to the Audit Committee for review.
Review of Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 January 2013 to the date of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
A confirmation of any necessary actions is, therefore, not provided.
However, had there been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 59 60 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
