CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Due to the judgements necessarily required in these areas, for Public Interest Disclosure Policy Whistleblowing AUDIT COMMITTEE 2013 these risks were: The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary the Companys staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about placements, with particular focus on period end cut off and possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and and Group accounting policies independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate The Audit Committee has recommended and the Board has What were the main activities of the Committee follow-up action.
There have been no matters raised during Accounting for the new operating system and related determined that it is not acceptable for the external auditor to during the year?
applications intangible assets, with particular focus on undertake any of the following non-audit services: appropriate cost capitalisation and carrying value Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary election, design or implementation of key financial systems Audit Committee Effectiveness Evaluation placements The Committee reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP the maintaining or preparing the accounting books and During the year a review of the effectiveness of the Audit The main areas of judgement in our revenue recognition methodology used to test the assumptions and estimates records or the preparation of financial accounts or other Committee in discharging its responsibilities was facilitated by are the provisions for revenue earned but not yet invoiced made by management in each of these areas.
key financial data an external facilitator.
Details of the evaluation process can be and for non-completion of contractual placements.
To provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and found on page 60.
The Committee regularly reviews these areas with provision of outsourced financial systems feedback from the Committee and the external auditor, management and remains satisfied that Group accounting meetings are held between the Chairman of the Audit Review of Annual Report provision of outsourced operational management functions policies with regard to revenue recognition have been Committee and the external auditor during the year without adhered to and that the year end provision for bad debt recruitment of senior finance or other executives PageGroup management introduced a new process for the management being present.
Matters typically discussed is appropriate.
review of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts ARA in order may include, amongst other items, the auditors assessment secondment of senior finance or other senior executives to ensure that the ARA is fair, balanced and understandable.
Annual Report and Accounts ARA of business risks and related management activity, external This process included a thorough understanding of the provision of internal audit services auditor independence and confirmation that there has been The Committee was required to use its judgement to determine revised regulatory requirements, a process to determine the no restriction in scope placed on them by management, the valuation services or fairness opinions whether the ARA is fair, balanced and understandable and accuracy, consistency and clarity of the data and language, transparency and openness of interactions with management, provides the shareholder with the information required to assess and detailed review by all appropriate parties including any services specifically prohibited to be provided by a listed records made available and how they have exercised their the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
A checklist outlining all the elements of companys external auditor under UK regulations professional scepticism.
The Committee based its judgement on its discussions with the process was completed to document the process and to The following criteria also need to be met before the external External Auditors Reappointment management regarding the procedure followed in compiling the provide assurance to the Audit Committee that the appropriate auditor is contracted to provide any non-audit services: ARA and through the members of the Committee reviewing the procedures had been undertaken.
Following a full evaluation of the external auditor at the end ARA in the light of their collective experience and knowledge of the firm has the necessary skills and experience to undertake of the 2013 audit the Committee recommended to the Board The Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys 2013 the business.
The Committee judged that the ARA, taken as a the work the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the ARA and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the ARA, whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
Company at the forthcoming AGM.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a result of External Auditors Independence provides the information necessary to assess the Companys carrying out the activity Risk Management and Internal Control performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee continually monitors the objectivity and During the year, in accordance with its Terms of Reference, the external audit firm is subject to the Companys normal independence of the external auditor.
Ernst & Young LLP the Audit Committee, with the assistance of the Internal tendering processes What is the plan for 2014?
were appointed as auditor of the Company in 2011 following a Audit Function, reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of in addition to the normal authorisation procedures and prior tender process.
Prior to that Deloitte LLP had been the auditor the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups risk In 2014 the Committee will continue to prioritise oversight to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be given by the since the Companys listing in 2001.
The Company is mindful management and internal control systems.
The identification of financial and regulatory requirements and also to further Chief Financial Officer and, if the fee exceeds a certain level, that the Code and best practice now require the external audit of major business risks was carried out at Group level develop the risk process within the business.
the Audit Committee contract to be put out to tender at least every ten years.
In in conjunction with operational management.
The Audit addition, in accordance with professional standards, Ernst & Committee reviewed and further developed the Groups risk Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during 2013 in respect of nonYoung LLP operate a policy of rotating the Audit Partner at assessment procedure, the risks identified and the steps taken Simon Boddie audit services are shown in the Financial Statements on page 106. least every five years.
to monitor and mitigate risk to ensure that appropriate action is Chairman of the Audit Committee being taken.
External Auditors Evaluation The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is 4 March 2014 The risk process together with the key risks identified and safeguarded by: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit mitigating actions are described in the Strategic Report on Committee reviewed: obtaining assurances from the external auditor that pages 45 to 49. adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm to the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Group Internal Audit Activities independence and objectivity by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and During the year, the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the robustness of the external auditors plan and its business relationships other than in the normal course the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Function in accordance identification of key risks of business with the Code.
the fulfilment of the agreed external audit plan and any enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is proposed The Groups Internal Audit Function comprises a Group Internal variations from the plan that a former employee of the external auditor be employed by Audit Director and a team of internal auditors.
Although the the Group in a senior management position the robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditor in Group Internal Audit Director reports to the Chief Financial handling key accounting and audit judgements Officer on a day-to-day basis, he has direct access to the monitoring the external auditors compliance with applicable UK Audit Committee in order to ensure that there is opportunity ethical guidance on the rotation of audit partners the content of reports provided to the Audit Committee by the for frank and open dialogue.
The scope of the internal audit external auditor including reporting on internal control enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit work for the year is agreed with the Audit Committee and services by the auditor which governs the types of work: feedback from management reports are presented to both the Executive Board and the Audit Committee.
Businesses are visited on a risk-based and i. from which the external auditor is excluded The review of the robustness of the external auditors plan is rotational basis to assess the effectiveness of controls vital given that the effectiveness of the external audit process is ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged without in mitigating specific risks.
In addition, risks are regularly dependent on appropriate audit risk identification.
At the start of referral to the Audit Committee reviewed and changes are made to the risk profile where the audit cycle the Company received a detailed audit plan from necessary.
No significant weaknesses were identified during iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required Ernst & Young LLP identifying their assessment of the key risks.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 65 66 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance
