Corporate governance Introduction The Board The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April 2013, the reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils UK board comprised six directors, all of whom served throughout Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code.
theyear: Through its commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance, the board endorses and supports the essential elements Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman of the Corporate Governance Code and, apart from a limited Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer exception as explained below, believes the Group has fully complied David Maloney Non-executive senior independent director and with the Corporate Governance Code during the year reported on.
Deputy Chairman Tom Skelton Non-executive director Compliance statement Karen Slatford Non-executive director The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company works Tom Virden Non-executive director towards compliance with the main principles of the Corporate Governance Code and throughout the year reported on the Company The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent has been in compliance except for the following: judgement is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
2.1 Chairman and Chief Executive The Corporate Governance The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and Code requires that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which not be exercised by the same individual.
Kevin Loosemore formerly complement those of the executive directors.
Non-executive Chairman was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011.
The nomination committee and the David Maloney, the Non-executive senior independent director and board considered that the combined role is in the interests of Deputy Chairman, Tom Skelton, Karen Slatford and Tom Virden, shareholders in order to utilize the proven leadership qualities and each a non-executive director, are considered by the board to be significant experience of Kevin Loosemore through a challenging independent.
period for the Company and to ensure the ongoing commercial success of the Company.
Furthermore, Kevin Loosemore has been In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all directors with the Company since its flotation in 2005 and can therefore are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM of provide stability and continuity through his detailed understanding of the Company after their appointment and to re-election by the the Groups operations and the markets in which it operates.
In order shareholders on an annual basis at the AGM.
Therefore all directors to mitigate any potential concerns over the combined role, David will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive directors are Maloney was also appointed as Deputy Chairman on 14 April 2011 appointed for specific terms.
Full terms of their appointment are and continues to perform his role as Non-executive senior to be found in the remuneration report.
In the year ending 30 April 2014, the board has scheduled meetings Following Kevin Loosemores appointment as Executive Chairman on a regular basis approximately every one to two months, with and David Maloneys appointment as Deputy Chairman, the terms additional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In of reference for each role were agreed by the board and can be months in which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled viewed on http: investors.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers Kevin Loosemore leads the board and the Company in its relationships in advance of meetings to help them make an effective contribution with all stakeholders and customers.
He is responsible for all aspects of at the meetings.
The board makes full use of appropriate technology executive management including business strategy and its successful as a means of updating and informing all its members.
He is also responsible for chairing board and general are circulated electronically to a tablet device, allowing directors to meetings, facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive access documentation more easily and securely.
The executive directors directors, ensuring effective communication with shareholders and ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive upholding the highest standards of integrity and probity.
David directors who are invited to accompany the executive directors Maloney chairs the nomination committee and is therefore responsible when visiting the Groups offices.
He leads on governance issues, including the annual review of board effectiveness, and acts as an intermediary, In the year under review, the board met on ten occasions, five such if necessary, between non-executive directors and the Executive meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with a further Chairman and between the Company and shareholders.
The board fiveadditional meetings of the board to provide interim updates also has a clear majority of independent directors, with four out of or consider matters arising between scheduled meetings.
six directors being fully independent.
While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of the The principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code cover Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted fiveareas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business andrelations with shareholders.
With the exception of remuneration activities is the responsibility of the executive committee.
The executive which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages committee comprises the executive directors and other senior 28to 34 the following section sets out how the board has applied managers reporting to the executives.
The Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at www.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board Last year the board commissioned leading search company, Russell Reynolds, to conduct a detailed evaluation of the board and its meeting.
These typically cover: committees as required by Corporate Governance Code provisions t 4USBUFHZ BOE CVEHFUT B6.1 and B6.2.
During the year under review, the evaluation of the board was conducted internally and took the form of surveys t #VTJOFTT BOE OBODJBM QFSGPSNBODF completed by members of the board with respect to the performance of the board and each of its committees, as well as individual director t 1SPEVDU QMBOT BOE EFWFMPQNFOU surveys.
The surveys included assessment of the effectiveness of the boards performance and its compliance with corporate governance t $PSQPSBUF BDUJWJUJFT principles.
The evaluation found the performance of each director to be effective and that the board provides effective leadership and t VNBO SFTPVSDFT BOE control.
Specifically the evaluation established that the board had a good balance of skills and personalities and continued to operate t OWFTUPS SFMBUJPOT in a culture of openness and mutual respect.
The results of the evaluation are used to assist the board in developing its approach The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they going forward and included recommendations to continue refining believe they require independent professional advice in the the succession planning and developing executive talent which are furtherance of their duties and these procedures allow the directors being implemented to take such advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Attendance at meetings Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is accountable to The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by the board through the Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
each director in the year ended 30 April 2013 was as follows: It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board Audit Remuneration Nomination procedures are followed and all rules and regulations are complied Board committee committee committee with.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating the induction and professional development of directors and ensuring the Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended smooth flow of information between board members, between the Kevin board and its committees and between non-executive directors and Loosemore 10 10 2 2 senior management.
Mike Phillips 10 10 David Maloney 10 10 5 5 5 5 2 2 Any new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored Tom Skelton 10 10 5 5 5 5 2 2 induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can request Karen Slatford 10 10 5 5 5 5 that appropriate training is available as required.
New directors Tom Virden 10 10 5 5 5 5 inductions include briefings on the Companys business, strategy, constitution and decision making process, the roles and responsibilities of a director and the legislative framework.
New directors also meet Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting with the Groups senior product and other managers.
papers for board and committee meetings in the week prior to the meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has feedback to the Executive Chairman, the chair of the committee or agreed a list of items that are specifically reserved for its consideration.
the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated These include business strategy, financing arrangements, material at the meeting.
acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk management, treasury policies and Conflicts of interest establishing and monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company has put board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives and in place procedures to deal with conflicts of interests, which have monitors financial progress against budget.
The board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
Any changes to these commitments are reported to the board.
Board committees In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and duties.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available from the Company Secretary or can be viewed on the Companys website at http: investors.
The Company is aware that the Executive Chairman is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Corporate Governance Code.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Corporate governance continued Audit committee The nature and scope of the internal audits to be completed during the year was reviewed and approved by the audit committee and The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board considers the reports of results of completed audits received and responses has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are of executive management were considered.
The plan set out at the Tom Skelton, Karen Slatford and Tom Virden.
beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
The audit committee has met five times during the financial year and will meet at least four times during the coming financial year and, The audit committees terms of reference include a process for additionally as appropriate.
A schedule of meetings for the coming employees of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns about year has been established.
possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, among accounts and interim reports prior to submission to the full board for other things, the following responsibilities: approval.
The committee also monitors the Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting t 5P SFQPSU UP UIF CPBSE PO JUT QSPDFFEJOHT JEFOUJGZJOH BOZ NBUUFST JO procedures.
The audit committee provides a forum through which respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed the Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
The and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee t 5P NPOJUPS UIF JOUFHSJUZ PG UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT PG UIF members in the absence of executive management.
The audit Company and ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor, protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control: including the independence and objectivity of the auditor taking into account UK professional and regulatory requirements and the t 5P LFFQ VOEFS SFWJFX UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF $PNQBOZ T JOUFSOBM relationship with the audit firm as a whole and the consideration controls and risk management systems: of audit fees and fees for non-audit work.
t 5P SFWJFX UIF $PNQBOZ T QSPDFEVSFT GPS QSFWFOUJOH BOE EFUFDUJOH In addition, the audit committee has developed a policy designed fraud, the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence is not bribery, the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti compromised by it undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
All money laundering systems and the Companys arrangements for its significant non-audit work commissioned from the external auditor employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial requires audit committee approval.
During the year the fees paid to reporting or other matters: the auditor were $825,000 2012: $747,000 for audit services and $214,000 2012: $461,000 for non-audit services.
The majority of t 5P NPOJUPS BOE SFWJFX UIF OFFE GPS BOE UIF FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF the non-audit services provided by the auditor were in respect of the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys Return of Value and the audit committee concluded that it was in overall risk management system: and the interests of the Group to use the auditor for this work as the auditor was considered to be best placed to provide these services t 5P PWFSTFF UIF SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI UIF $PNQBOZ T BVEJUPST FOTVSJOH and was the provider that offered the best value.
Auditor objectivity the independence and objectivity of the auditor, considering audit was safeguarded by the audit committee considering several factors: fees and fees for non-audit work and making recommendations the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit partner: to the board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: removal of the Companys external auditor.
and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK independence standards.
In addition, during the year, the committee: An outsourced internal audit function continues to be provided by t 3FWJFXFE UIF $PNQBOZ T QMBOT GPS CVTJOFTT DPOUJOVJUZ BOE 5 KPMG.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer provides oversight and Disaster recovery testing: co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, internal audit has a direct reporting line to the audit committee and t 3FWJFXFE BOE BHSFFE BO VQEBUFE 3JTL 3FHJTUFS itschairman.
t 3FWJFXFE BOE BQQSPWFE NBOBHFNFOU SFDPNNFOEBUJPOT GPS The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and the improvements in administrative purposes relating to statutory board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal control compliance in overseas territories: are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved t 3FWJFXFE BOE SFDPNNFOEFE UP UIF CPBSE UIF BQQSPWBM PG B TFDPOE by the audit committee.
Return of Value proposal: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information t 0WFSTBX UIF BQQPJOUNFOU PG B OFX MFBE BVEJU QBSUOFS GSPN The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among other matters, the following responsibilities:  LLP from June 2012 for the Group: t $POTJEFSFE XIFUIFS UIF SPVQ TIPVME JTTVF B UFOEFS GPS UIF t 5P SFWJFX UIF TUSVDUVSF TJ[F BOE DPNQPTJUJPO JODMVEJOH UIF TLJMMT provision of external audit services and having taken into account knowledge, experience and diversity required of the board and the tenure, the recent appointment of the new audit partner and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: the quality and fees of the auditors, the committee determined that a tender for the audit work was not necessary at that time.
t 5P JEFOUJGZ BOE OPNJOBUF GPS UIF BQQSPWBM PG UIF CPBSE DBOEJEBUFT This position will be kept under annual review: to fill board vacancies as and when they arise: t 3FWJFXFE UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPS T QFSGPSNBODF UISPVHI BO t 5P HJWF GVMM DPOTJEFSBUJPO UP TVDDFTTJPO QMBOOJOH GPS EJSFDUPST BOE evaluation by both the directors and the Companys other senior executives: financial management as a result of which the board is recommending that shareholders approve the reappointment t 5P LFFQ VOEFS SFWJFX UIF MFBEFSTIJQ OFFET PG UIF SPVQ CPUI of  LLP as external auditor for the executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued financial year ending 30 April 2014 at the forthcoming AGM ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and on 26September 2013.
Since the Companys initial public offering in 2005,  LLP have remained t 5P SFWJFX BOOVBMMZ UIF UJNF SFRVJSFE GSPN OPO FYFDVUJWFT the external auditor to the Group.
There are no contractual evaluating whether they are spending enough time to fulfil restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor: theirduties.
t 3FWJFXFE UIF NBOBHFNFOU PG DPSQPSBUF TUSBUFHJD BOE Any search and selection process for a new director will, if appropriate, fraud risks: and involve the appointment of an external search consultancy and will take account of the existing directors skill sets and experience as t 3FWJFXFE UIF JOUFSOBM BVEJUPS T QFSGPSNBODF UISPVHI BO well as the overall diversity of the board.
Following an initial search, evaluation by both the audit committee and the Companys preliminary interviews are normally conducted by the chairs of both financial management and concluded it was satisfactory.
the nomination and remuneration committees, with a shortlist being recommended to the nomination committee and subsequently the Nomination committee board.
In addition the nomination committee reviewed the board The nomination committee is comprised of David Maloney succession plan.
Non-executive senior independent director and Deputy Chairman who chairs the committee, Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman The nomination committee also discussed and revised the succession and Tom Skelton Non-executive director.
The committee met twice plans and individual plans for the executive committee and the top during the financial year.
The nomination committee will meet at talent critical employees within the Group.
least twice during the coming financial year.
Remuneration committee The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for Details of the remuneration committee are described in the proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance remuneration report on pages 28 to 34. and structure of the board and takes into consideration the benefits of diversity in terms of both gender and ethnicity.
The nomination Accountability and audit committee uses consultants to identify suitable candidates where a The board is responsible for the preparation of financial statements position is identified and diversity is included in the criteria set for that present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position selecting appropriate candidates.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the auditcommittee.
The board has considered diversity in broader terms than just gender and believes it is also important to reach the correct balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board.
The Group has formal policies to promote equality of opportunity, across the whole organization.
Currently, the board comprises five men 83% and one woman 17% and the Company Secretary who is also a woman, but the board does not think it appropriate to impose a specific gender quota at this stage.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Corporate governance continued Risk management To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a stringent process in place to approve non-audit work.
The board recognizes the need to understand and control the variety of risks to which the Group is exposed.
During the year, in order to address this on behalf of the board, the audit committee oversaw the The key elements of the control system are: executive managements risk management activities.
The executive management took responsibility for regular evaluation of generic and t 5IF SPVQ PQFSBUFT B TUSVDUVSFE PCKFDUJWFT ESJWFO BQQSPBDI UP specific risks within the business and the implementation of mitigation fulfil its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained profitability plans to address them.
and growth: Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups t 4ZTUFNT BOE QSPDFEVSFT BSF JO QMBDF GPS BMM NBKPS USBOTBDUJPO UZQFT business objectives and according to current market and economic with appropriate authorization controls: issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the responsibility of the board and executive management respectively.
"t ""MM DPOUSBDUT BSF SFWJFXFE 5IF MFWFM PG SFWJFX EFQFOET PO UIF The risk process has been in place for the year under review and is up size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks."
There to date at the time of this report.
are formal limits above which the review level is escalated: The audit committee considers any significant control matters raised t 3FDPODJMJBUJPOT BSF QFSGPSNFE PO B UJNFMZ CBTJT GPS BMM NBKPS in reports from management and by the internal and external accounts: and auditors.
It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are identified, the audit committee requires appropriate action to be t 3FTFBSDI BOE EFWFMPQNFOU BOE DBQJUBM FYQFOEJUVSF QSPHSBNNFT taken by management and may request internal audit to perform a are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
specific review into these areas if required.
Financial reporting Internal controls In addition to the general internal controls and risk management The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring processes described above, the Group also has specific internal internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their controls and risk management systems to govern the financial effectiveness.
It recognizes that rigorous systems of internal control reporting process: are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and t 5IFSF BSF SPVQ QPMJDJFT DPWFSJOH XIBU JT SFQPSUFE NPOUIMZ UP that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the board and the executive committee.
The Groups financial against material misstatement or loss.
reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure consistency and visibility of management information to enable There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and the board and the executive team to review the Groups managing the significant risks faced by the Company in association worldwide operations effectively: with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date t $BTI PXT BSF QSPEVDFE UXJDF NPOUIMZ CZ BMM PQFSBUJPOT 5IFTF BSF of approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly reviewed by reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash the board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
"management by the Group: As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the t. BOBHFNFOU SFQSFTFOUBUJPOT DPWFSJOH DPNQMJBODF XJUI SPVQ effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures policies and the accuracy of financial information are collected designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in on a quarterly basis: and the case of those categorized by the board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy any t ""MM UIF NBKPS USBEJOH FOUJUJFT DPNQMFUFE B TFMG BTTFTTNFOU PO suchfailings."
the effectiveness of their internal control environment.
The requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of reference to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal financial control procedures and to make recommendations to the board in this area.
The external auditor provides a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are regularly reported to both the audit committee and the board.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Consolidation reporting Shareholder relations The Company values the views of shareholders and recognizes their t 5IF DPOTPMJEBUJPO QSPDFTT FOUBJMT UIF DPNCJOJOH BOE BEKVTUJOH PG financial information from the individual financial statements of interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiary undertakings to prepare consolidated financial statements that present financial The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, information for the Group as a single economic entity.
The Group around June preliminary announcement of annual results and accounting policies on pages 43 to 47 sets out the basis of December interim statement and the Company also publishes interim preparation and consolidation, including the elimination of management statements in or around August and February each year.
inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders at least between Groupcompanies: 20business days before the AGM.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are t 'JOBODJBM JOGPSNBUJPO GSPN TVCTJEJBSJFT JT BMXBZT SFWJFXFE GPS maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given accuracy by internal review and externally audited where to shareholders when the half year and full year financial results are required:and announced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors, t 5IF DPOTPMJEBUFE OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT BSF DPNQMFUFE JO BDDPSEBODF David Maloney the Non-executive senior independent director and with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, Deputy Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as and when IFRS Interpretations Committee, and the Companies Act 2006 required.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
Human resources The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, The Companys website www.
com provides an overview knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and All Group announcements are available on the Companys website providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives of reference of each of the boards three committees and other and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice important corporate governance documents are available on the each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organizational website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Executive structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Head of Investor Relations provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue Announcements throughout the year.
All major announcements are approved by the executive directors and circulated to the board for approval prior to issue.
AGM The Companys AGM, which will be held on 26 September 2013 The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against at 3pm UK time, will provide an opportunity for the board to unauthorized release of information.
meet with all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, Budgetary process the board will be available for questions from shareholders.
A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
recommendations, the Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for Insurance and against each such resolution and the number of votes withheld.
The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies with A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to Groups activities and exposure.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on page 20 of the directors report and in note 23 to the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
