Governance Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Report Group financial statements Further information Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance statement expected to fulfill his duties for the These committees activities are set out benefit of all shareholders.
The in the reports of each committees The Board is committed to ensuring that Companys Articles of Association chairman which are deemed to be part good practice in corporate governance contain provisions concerning the of this report.
is observed throughout the Group and appointment and replacement of remains the responsibility of the whole The Company Secretary acts as Directors.
The Board is committed to secretary to all standing committees of maintaining high standards of business The scheduled number of meetings of the Board.
integrity and professionalism in all its the Board held during the year is shown Reserved matters which require Board activities and continues to support the below together with attendance details approval include: highest standards in corporate of each Director.
The Board also held Ethics, group-wide business policies and practices governance.
one ad hoc meeting in the year.
Strategy, management and long-term plans Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc is Meetings Annual budgets Directors Eligible to attend Attended the listed holding company for the Capital expenditure, acquisitions, significant Millennium & Copthorne group property transactions and investments Kwek Leng Beng of companies: its shares are listed on Chairman 88 Major contracts and expenditure proposals the London Stock Exchange and is Wong Hong Ren 88 Internal control systems, corporate governance, therefore subject to the UK Corporate compliance and communication Shaukat Aziz 86 Governance Code issued by the 1 Ian Batey 84 Financial Reporting Council in 2010 and Sean Collins 88 Executive management is responsible 2012 the Code.
2 Susan Farr 11 to the Board for the Groups operational Nicholas George 88 The Board considers that, throughout performance including: implementing Kwek Leng Peck 85 the year, it was compliant with the the Group strategy as determined by Kwek Eik Sheng 87 the Board: maintaining adequate internal provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Alexander Waugh 8 8 Code is available from the Financial control systems and risk management Notes: Reporting Council www.
processes: monitoring operational 1 Ian Batey has given notice of his intention to retire from performance against plans and targets the Board on 20 February 2014 Pages 37 to 40 include statements as to and reporting to the Board any 2 Susan Farr joined the Board on 12 December 2013 how the Company has applied the main significant variances: maintaining an principles of the Code.
Our role effective management team and succession planning.
The Strategic Report on pages 6 to 30 Overall control of the Group is exercised provides information about the Groups by the Board, which has responsibility, A written statement defining the strategy and outlook, its businesses, the amongst other things, for setting respective responsibilities of the financial and operating performance strategy and ensuring that adequate Chairman and Chief Executive Officer during the year, the principal risks resources are available and leadership is has been agreed and approved by the and uncertainties and corporate social provided to achieve the Groups Board.
Groups business model is included on The Chairman The Board meets up to ten times a year page 8 as required by provision C. 1.2 of and has a schedule of matters reserved The Chairman provides leadership for the Code.
Certain matters which the Board on all aspects of its role.
His are reserved for the Board have been Board meetings key duties are to: delegated to its standing committees The Board currently comprises the U Formulate and set the strategic with specific delegated authority.
Chairman, one Executive Director, six direction and organisational structure independent Non-Executive Directors of the Group, subject to the Boards approval: and two other Non-Executive Directors who, like the Chairman, are appointees U Set a clear vision for the Group: of the majority shareholder, City Developments Limited.
Each Director is 37 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Report continued U Take the lead to appoint the Chief agreed by the Board, while managing Sean Collins, as the Senior Independent Executive Officer and following the the risks.
His duties are to: Director, is available to meet with our appointment to mentor the Chief institutional shareholders and U Receive the strategic vision of the Executive Officer as and when shareholder representative bodies and Group from the Board of Directors to discuss any matters where it would required: and to implement such strategic be inappropriate for discussions to be U Balance the interests of management vision, develop the strategic plan, held with either the Chairman or the and the Board as well as the needs of business plan and budget and deliver Chief Executive Officer.
He is also a shareholders and management: the same to the satisfaction of the sounding board for the Chairman and is Board: U Act as a liaison between an intermediary for other Board management and the Board as well U Lead and act as an advocate for the members when necessary.
as between the Company and its Group Management Committee: Independent Non-Executive Directors shareholders: U Oversee the execution of the have rolling contracts and appointments U Manage communications and strategic vision and plans, and assess are subject to termination by either information dissemination processes the Groups performance in meeting party giving one months notice.
between the Company and its them: Appointment and any subsequent shareholders and work closely with re-appointment is subject at all times U Promote the growth of the Group: the Companys public relations team to the Articles of Association of the to achieve this objective: U Develop the management team and Company and any necessary establish a succession plan for key shareholder ratification.
U Establish the agenda and manage management appointments: Board meetings: On appointment, each independent U Act on the feedback of the Chairman: Non-Executive Director receives a letter U Offer advice and tap the collective of appointment setting out the terms of wisdom and experience of Board U Be responsible for the day-tothe appointment, including committee day management of the Groups members: memberships, fees to be paid, matters business and affairs and to ensure U Take a proactive role in the such as confidentiality of information, that significant issues that arise appointment of Directors and, potential conflicts and share dealing are resolved in an efficient and following such appointments, restrictions.
timely manner: and oversee the development of individual U Lead the management team to Directors: and Training and information improve performance in every U Develop the top management team in All Directors have access to the advice division.
particular the Chief Executive Officer of the Company Secretary, who is and establish a succession plan for responsible for ensuring the Board Role of the Non-Executive the Chief Executive Officer position.
procedures and applicable rules and Directors regulations are observed.
In addition, There have been no changes to the The majority of the Board is made up of the Directors are able, if necessary, to Chairmans other significant independent Non-Executive Directors take independent professional advice at commitments during the year.
who have wide ranging international the Companys expense.
There is the experience at senior levels in areas of opportunity for Non-Executive Directors The Chief Executive Officer finance, investment banking, fund to meet separately with the Chairman.
management, media, brands and The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate The Chairman, in conjunction with the responsibility, reporting to the Board, for international affairs.
They bring strong, Company Secretary, is also responsible the day-to-day running of the Group.
He independent judgement to the for ensuring that Directors receive is responsible for leading the deliberations of the Board, particularly in appropriate training at the Companys management and the operational the areas of strategy, finance expense where specific expertise is activities and performance of the Group, and governance.
required in the course of the exercise of including the effective delivery of the their duties.
All Directors receive a strategy and the business plan, as Board Compendium detailing matters 38 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Overview Strategic report Corporate Governance Report Group financial statements Further information Key areas Actions relating to Board procedures.
An The Board confirms that, in accordance induction programme is established for Greater interaction Visits to regional Group with the Turnbull guidance, there is an between Non-Executive ofces to be facilitated.
ongoing process for identifying, Directors and the senior Two such visits have evaluating and managing the significant management taken place The Board has established agreed risks faced by the Group.
This process is teams worldwide procedures for managing potential reviewed by the Audit Committee on Some Board meetings to Arrange for at least one conflicts of interest.
These procedures be held in regional Group Board meeting to be behalf of the Board and has been in and any potential conflicts authorised in locations held outside of UK over place for the year under review, and up the next 18 months.
accordance with section 175 4 to the date of the approval of the Gender diversity on the New female NonCompanies Act 2006, as permitted by Annual Report.
Board Executive Director the Companys Articles of Association, appointed in are reviewed by the Board at least Primary responsibility for the operation December 2013 annually.
The Board is satisfied that the of the system of internal controls is Lintstock have no other connection with procedures for managing delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed The performance of Executive and Evaluation process by an internal audit function and, where Non-Executive Directors is assessed appropriate, by the Groups external annually by the Chairman.
During the During the year, an independent auditor and external consultants, who year, the Chairman and independent externally facilitated Board evaluation report to management and to the Audit Non-Executive Directors met without was conducted by Lintstock, with the Committee.
In addition, responsibility is the Executive Director in attendance to Directors completing on-line delegated to executive management to conduct such assessment.
The evaluation process monitor the effectiveness of the the Chairman is conducted by the focused on key themes including: systems of control in managing independent Non-Executive Directors U Board composition, expertise and identified risks as established by the led by the Senior Independent Director.
The internal audit department Internal control system reviews the effectiveness of key U Time management and Board internal controls as part of its standard The Board is responsible for the Groups support.
work programme, and individual reports system of internal control, including the U The operation of Board committees.
are issued to appropriate senior Groups financial reporting process and management.
These reports are the Groups process for preparation of U Strategic oversight.
summarised and distributed to the Audit consolidated accounts, and for U Risk management and internal Committee, the Chief Executive Officer, monitoring its effectiveness.
senior management of the Group and establishing this system, the Directors the external auditor.
They are have considered the nature of the U Succession planning and human subsequently reviewed by the Audit Groups business, with regard to the resource management.
Committee, which ensures that, where risks to which that particular business is A report was produced identifying a necessary, recommendations on exposed, the likelihood of such risks number of priorities to improve appropriate corrective action are drawn occurring, their potential impact and the performance.
The Board discussed the to the attention of the full Board.
costs of protecting against them.
report at the Board meeting in However, such a system is designed to The main features of the Groups November 2013 and agreed on the manage rather than eliminate the risks internal control framework are: following actions: and can only provide reasonable and not U The Groups strategic direction is absolute assurance against material regularly reviewed by the Board, misstatement.
The Groups significant which sets business objectives risk factors are included on pages 26 to 30. for the Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each region are set by the executive management team and reviewed by the Board on 39 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Report continued a geographical basis in the light of A schedule of the proxy votes cast is overall objectives: made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the U Within the financial and overall Annual Report is laid before the objectives for the Group, agreed shareholders at the annual general by the Board, the day-to-day meeting.
Notice of the annual general management is delegated to the meeting and related papers are sent to Chief Executive Officer and executive shareholders at least 21 working days management.
The executive prior to the date of the meeting, and the management team carries out regular Company encourages all shareholders operational reviews with business to make positive use of the Companys managers to ensure appropriate annual general meeting for pursuit of the overall objectives and communication with the Board.
management of the primary risks of the Group: and U The Directors going concern statement can be found on page 34 of the Directors report.
Communication with shareholders General presentations are made after the announcement of final and halfyearly results.
There is a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders to review the Groups performance and business model and objectives.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director has meetings with a range of major shareholders during the year and other Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders.
The Groups website provides regular updates for investors and contains all announcements from the Group.
At general meetings, there is the opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue put to shareholders and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
40 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
