Governance Overview Strategic report Nominations Committee Report Group financial statements Further information Nominations Committee Report Our members vacancies when they arise and for the for the position of Acting Group Chief subsequent approval by the Board.
Operating Officer, Mr Bhupesh Yadav, The Nominations Committee Open advertising was not used during who was appointed with effect from comprises a majority of independent 2013, as the Committee considered 1 January 2014.
The Committee Non-Executive Directors and meets as considered and, where applicable numerous candidates from a wide necessary, but at least twice a year.
variety of sources, including our recommended, the appointment of The office of chairman of the external consultants, Inzito Partnership.
Jonathon Grech as Company Secretary Nominations Committee must be filled Inzito Partnership have no other and Karen Caddick to the post of Group by the Chairman of the Board or an connection with the Group.
At the request of the Board, I chair the The Committee supports the principle During the year, we reviewed the Board Committee, although I would not evaluation process and considered that that diversity can serve to strengthen participate in any discussion concerning the Group and we continue to the use of external assistance in that the appointment of my successor.
The incorporate diversity in all of its process continued to make a valuable Company Secretary and, when aspects, including gender as an contribution.
appropriate the Chief Executive Officer, objective criterion for the selection of Kwek Leng Beng Senior Vice-President Global Human future Board members.
Selection of Chairman of the Nominations Committee Resources and professional advisers candidates to join the Board are based 20 February 2014 attend meetings at the invitation of the on merit and the contribution which the Chairman.
chosen candidate will bring to the working of the Board.
The Committee met 3 times in 2013.
The membership of the Committee The Committees formal terms of throughout 2013 and attendance at reference are available on the Groups meetings is set out below.
html Committee members in 2013 Review of the year Meetings The Committee reviewed the Eligible to Members attend Attended composition of the Board and Kwek Leng Beng recommended the appointment of Chairman 3 3 Susan Farr as an Independent NonShaukat Aziz 3 0 Executive Director.
She was Sean Collins 3 3 subsequently appointed to the Board Kwek Leng Peck 3 1 on 12 December, 2013.
Ms. Farr brings Alexander Waugh 3 3 a wealth of experience from her distinguished career in corporate Our role marketing and communications and is currently an Executive Director, The Committees role is to work on Business Development on the behalf of the Board in considering the Executive Board of Chime skills and expertise that are likely to be Communications plc.
required by the Group in future, how such skills and expertise should be In our consideration of non-Board senior reflected in the structure, size and management positions, the Committee composition of the Board and how recommended to the Board the such requirements should influence establishment of a new senior succession planning for Directors and management role that of Group Chief other senior executives.
The Board accepted responsible for identifying and this recommendation and also accepted nominating candidates to fill Board our recommended internal candidate 59 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
