Governance Overview Strategic report Audit Committee Report Group financial statements Further information Audit Committee Report The key objective of the Committee As part of this process of working in particular, which has been treated throughout the year has remained the with the Board and to maximize historically as an associate under provision of effective governance over effectiveness, meetings of the IAS 28.
In particular, the Committee the appropriateness of the Groups Committee generally take place just has held extensive discussions with both audit and technical resources financial reporting including the prior to a Company Board meeting.
adequacy of related disclosures, the I report to the Board as part of a at KPMG, and examined emerging performance of both the internal audit separate agenda item, on the activity of accounting consensus at other function and the external auditor, and the Committee and matters of particular impacted groups in Singapore: the oversight of the Groups systems of relevance to the Board in the conduct of U Monitored at every meeting related internal control, business risks and their work.
party charges between the Group related compliance activities.
and its majority shareholder in the Our role context of the existing shareholder Our members Our terms of reference are available on agreement: request from the Company Secretary The Board believes that between them U Recruited a new Head of Internal and on the Groups website at the members of the Committee have Audit: www.
com corporate suitable broad commercial knowledge U Analysed the changes in the Listing investors.
html and significant business experience.
Authority rules for controlled listed The Board has determined that both companies to understand the Main activities of the Committee Nicholas George and I have recent during the year impact, if any, on the Groups current relevant financial experience as required governance procedures: by the provisions of the UK Corporate During the year, the Committee has Governance Code.
U Following the publication of the performed the following: revised version of the UK Corporate U Members of the Committee have Committee meetings Governance Code, which applies visited operations in the US, China, to financial years commencing on The Committee held 5 scheduled Singapore and the UK to improve or after 1 October 2012, the Board meetings in 2013 and attendance is their understanding of the business requested that the Committee shown below.
and assess the management of risks: advise them on whether we U Reviewed IT Group strategy, with believe the annual report and Committee members in 2013 accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, particular focus on payment card Meetings balanced and understandable and industry PCI and data security Eligible to compliance, and cyber security: provides the information necessary Members attend Attended for shareholders to assess the U Monitored tax based restructuring, Sean Collins Chairman 5 5 Companys performance, business impairment policy, going concern Nicholas George 5 5 model and strategy: and reports, together with the interim Alexander Waugh 5 5 U Reviewed the Groups key financial report, full year annual accounts and The Chief Executive Officer, Chief interim management statements: reporting matters, as detailed below: Financial Officer, Company Secretary U Understood, analysed and reviewed and Head of Internal Audit, although not Financial reporting the impact of IFRS 10 Consolidated members of the Committee, attend Financial Statements for the year We monitor the integrity, prior to each meeting, as does the lead audit submission to the Board, of periodic ending 31 December 2014, as partner from our external auditor, who is discussed in note 4 to the accounts.
financial statements, annual accounts, not present when we discuss auditors The Committee has reviewed reports to shareholders and any other performance and or remuneration.
public announcement concerning the managements conclusions on the Senior managers from the Groups impact of this standard, and has Groups financial position, corporate financial function are also normally examined in detail the technical governance statements and statements invited to attend.
on the Groups system of internal conclusions affecting the treatment controls and report our views to the of the Groups investment in CDLHT 41 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Audit Committee Report continued Board to assist in its approval of the that were used in the valuations were the Glyndebourne development results announcements and the within reasonable parameters: and are fundamentally material to the annual report.
Groups 2013 results and therefore U Conclusions have been appropriately the Committee reviewed the drawn.
Significant financial statement appropriateness of the accounting for reporting issues this transaction.
Valuation of investment properties The Committee determined that the key The Committee examined The total carrying amount of investment significant financial statement reporting managements recommendation which properties as at 31 Dec 2013 is issues are related to valuation of its considered that the receipt of the 163.5m see note 14 to the accounts.
hotel assets, revenue recognition in Temporary Occupancy Permit TOP respect to development properties, Investment properties are stated at fair for the development was the value and any increase or decrease in specifically the Glyndebourne appropriate trigger for revenue and cost the fair value on annual revaluation is development, valuation of investment recognition.
The Committee agreed that properties, and taxation, following recognised in the income statement.
at this point the risks and rewards of Where a fair value cannot be reasonably discussion with both management ownership substantially passed from determined, the property is held at cost.
the Group to the purchasers.
The Committee also confirmed with The valuations remain inherently Impairment of hotel assets management the receipt of such subjective and complex, and the Group TOP documentation.
As more fully explained in note 12, the engages external independent experts total carrying amount of hotels as at to value the portfolio annually.
Tax assets and liabilities 31 Dec 2013 is 1,875.4m.
The Group During the year, the Committee continues to engage external valuation The Group has operations all over the examined managements experts to assist with the valuations world, and is impacted by a large recommendations in respect to the exercise and impairment review.
number of tax jurisdictions, where tax valuation of investment properties and Financial performance and sensitivity of rules are complex to interpret.
In agreed that: the valuation models to other key inputs addition, significant levels of judgement means that the valuations remain U there was the appropriate use of third are also required, particularly when party valuation expertise: inherently subjective.
The property, assessing potential future tax liabilities plant and equipment assets are carried that may occur.
U Sufficient robust challenge was given at historical cost, which mitigates the to management from the external During the year, the Committee risk of impairment of these assets.
auditors: examined the Groups tax position, During the year, the Committee including any tax based restructuring, U Material judgmental assumptions examined managements reviewed the key assumptions and that were used in the valuations were recommendations in respect to the conclusions relating to judgemental within reasonable parameters: and valuation of the Groups hotel and taxation areas, and discussed any U Conclusions have been appropriately property portfolio and agreed that: pertinent issues with appropriate drawn.
The Committee U the scoping for external valuations agreed that: was done appropriately, taking into Development properties revenue account materiality, indicators of U Material assumptions used in the recognition Glyndebourne impairment and risk: calculation of tax assets and liabilities As further explained in note 3 to the are appropriate: U there was the appropriate use of third financial statements, the Group has party valuation expertise: U Sufficient use of subject matter operations all over the world and expertise has been utilized: recognition of property sales, in U Sufficient robust challenge was given particular, can be subjective and differ to management from the external U Sufficient robust challenge was given depending on the jurisdiction.
auditors: to management from the external auditors: The revenue and costs associated with U Material judgmental assumptions 42 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Overview Strategic report Audit Committee Report Group financial statements Further information U Conclusions have been appropriately possible trends and potential systematic to consider at the annual general drawn.
The details of the taxation charge for the We review and agree with the auditor Internal audit year are given in note 10 to the financial its annual strategy and plan for the audit statements and the taxation liabilities We monitor and review the prior to the commencement of the are detailed in note 26. effectiveness of the internal audit work.
function: agree its annual work plan and The plan includes: Internal controls and risks review whether the function has the proper resources to enable it to U a view of the current and future risks We are responsible for reviewing, and satisfactorily complete such work plans.
of the business: conducting an annual review of the We review status reports from Internal effectiveness of the Groups system of U the overall strategy and scoping: Audit and consider managements internal control and risk management U the approach to the significant risks response to any major finding, providing procedures.
support, if necessary, for any follow-up and areas of focus to be addressed in Accepting that risk is an inherent part of action required and ensure that the the audit: doing business, we review the Groups function obtains free and unrestricted U the approach to materiality: risk management strategy to ensure access to all Group activities, records, U an explanation of developments in the that any required remedial action on any property and personnel necessary to regulatory landscape: and identified weaknesses is taken.
This fulfil its agreed objectives.
includes a regular review of the risk U details of matters that need to be The Head of Internal Audit produces a register which contains the significant discussed with the Committee.
risk based Global Internal Audit work risks faced by the Group and identifies plan of hotel audits and function by The auditors also reported to us the their potential impact and likelihood.
region and reports on regional and misstatements that they had found in Where specific actions are agreed to global patterns that affect the Group as the course of the audit and we have mitigate risks to a level deemed well as specific issues of interest in confirmed that the financial statements acceptable, these are agreed with relation to systems and controls.
did not contain any unadjusted material specific timeframes for delivery and are misstatements.
During the year, the Committee monitored closely until fully implemented.
appointed PWC LLP to provide expert Meetings are also held with the external The system of internal controls audited guidance to the Committee in risk auditor without the presence of any by Internal Audit and commented on by management and internal audit best member of executive management.
the external auditor from time to time practice.
As part of this ongoing encompasses all controls including engagement, PWC LLP has undertaken External audit effectiveness those relating to financial reporting a review of the Groups risk register, The Committee places great importance processes, operational and compliance and has helped supplement the Groups on ensuring there are high standards of controls and those relating to risk Internal Audit function in a co-sourcing quality and effectiveness in the external management processes.
We ensure that arrangements are in External audit The key measures which the place for employees to raise concerns, Committee focused on are: in confidence, about possible fraud risk KPMG Audit Plc has been the or wrong-doing in financial reporting or Companys auditor since 1996.
U The level of challenge to other matters.
Where a whistleblowing management, particularly on matters During the year, we considered reincident occurs, this is investigated by of significant judgement: appointment of the external auditor and Internal Audit on a confidential basis and reviewed their terms of appointment U Appropriate scoping, methodology in a proportionate manner.
Appropriate and negotiated fees on behalf of the and cost effectiveness of KPMGs actions are recommended and Company prior to making audit process: and undertaken which are reported to the recommendation on re-appointment Committee which then reviews the U The appropriate quality and through the Board to the shareholders recommendations and focuses on experience of senior audit team 43 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Audit Committee Report continued members in the UK, USA, Asia and No tender has occurred since KPMGs www.
html The Committee measures KPMGs Details of the fees for non-audit services Safeguards on non-audit services audit quality and effectiveness are provided in note 6 to the throughout the year, by means of, but The use of KPMG for non audit services consolidated financial statements.
not limited to: is governed by a Group policy, which sets out clear parameters as to what Governance and compliance U Review of strategy and planning for KPMG are permitted to do, and what the audit cycle, to ensure relevance to We carried out our annual review of the level of fees they are permitted to the Groups evolving business: Groups ethics and whistleblowing receive.
policies and reviewed the process for, U Review of the quality, relevance and All non audit fees from KPMG require and the effectiveness of, our additional value given to the Group by authority of the Group Chief Financial whistleblowing procedures.
We decided the audit findings: Officer, and all fees over a certain that Internal Audit should continue to U Monitoring the independence of specified threshold require direct monitor and action emails and calls the audit and compliance with the authorisation by the Committee.
which we review on a regular basis.
Groups non-audit fee policies: The Committee requires clear Our performance is reviewed annually U Feedback from management on the efficiencies and value added benefits to through a facilitated evaluation auditors performance: and the Group to exist for the auditor to be conducted by Lintstock, the results of which showed that the Committee was awarded any non audit services.
The U Review of the Financial Reporting Committee receives a schedule of both effective in terms of expertise, and use Councils Audit Quality Review AQR non audit fees incurred and forecast non of time.
A number of areas of reports for KPMG and other audit audit fees yet to be incurred, at every improvement were identified including firms.
meeting, so that it can closely monitor improved access to regional the fees and type of work being management.
We have agreed the Auditor appointment performed.
following priorities for 2014: Given the auditors continuing objectivity In addition to this, confirmation of U More engagement with non financial and independence, ongoing independence is sought at every senior management, particularly at performance and the cost effectiveness reporting date from KPMG.
the regional level: of the service provided, we did not consider it necessary this year to require The majority of non-audit work U Increased focus on IT risk, particularly the external auditor to tender for the undertaken by KPMG during the year around cyber security: audit and have recommended to the was for tax related services where the U Increased attention on operational Board that the auditor be reappointed Committee concluded that it is more controls within the Group: and for 2014. cost effective to utilise their services.
U Greater focus on the Groups equity The lead audit partner, Stephen Masters We are satisfied that there were investments, including FSCL.
is completing the third year in his five safeguards in place to protect the Sean Collins year cycle and we intend to consider objectivity and independence of the Chairman of the Audit Committee the tendering arrangements towards auditor.
the end of Mr Masters period in office 20 February 2014 A copy of the policy on the provision of in line with the transitional non-audit services by the auditor is arrangements proposed by the Financial available, on request, from the Reporting Council in their revisions to Company Secretary and on the Groups the UK Corporate Governance Code and website: the recommendation to put the audit out to tender every 10 years.
44 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
