Anite plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements 2 Financial reporting 4 Internal audit The Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements The Committee agreed in July 2006 to create an internal review and considered the following areas: function, headed by a member of the Group finance team who, under The Committee received and considered reports from the the control of the Audit Committee, carries out a plan of detailed external auditors on accounting and reviewed any judgemental reviews throughout the operating companies.
Where additional issues which required its attention.
The reports were based on a resource is required, this is sourced either from an external full audit annual and a limited scope review interim.
professional firm or by selecting divisional staff that carry out peer The Committee reviewed specific judgements in a number of reviews in divisions other than their own.
This internal review function areas including: does not represent an independent internal audit function as defined revenue recognition on large contracts: by professional internal audit standards, but has been a significant the acquisition and fair value accounting of the Propsim enhancement in the Groups internal control framework.
The business full details in note 14 on page 88 : Committee considers that the current internal review function is assumptions supporting intangible asset impairment reviews suitable given the size and complexity of the business.
including goodwill: and obsolescence provisions for inventory levels recognising the The Committee agreed the scope of the work at the start of the increasing importance of hardware within the Wireless year.
During the year the Group finance team reviewed the inventory division business model.
management processes across the Group.
This review concluded The Committee reviewed the verification process dealing with the that the overall controls in the areas tested were appropriate and factual content of the report.
effective, and recommended minor improvements which are Took into account the comprehensive review carried out by both expected to be implemented over the next year.
In addition a project Group and divisional senior management.
governance audit was carried out in our Travel business as part of our ongoing project governance programme and the results reported 3 Internal controls and risk management to the Committee.
The Board retains the responsibility for risk assessment and monitoring as explained in the Corporate Governance report starting The topics to be addressed in the forthcoming year will include a on page 34. review of the general purchasing cycle and authority levels and review of controls in overseas locations.
The Audit Committee is delegated the responsibility for assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control regime, in accordance Overview with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance on internal As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee control.
It undertook this during the year by reviewing the principal has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of risks facing the Group and its trading operations and the necessary reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity mitigation and monitoring activities, and by receiving reports from of the external auditor.
the internal audit function, Project Management Director, Group Financial Controller, IT Director and from the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the It confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for 2012 13.
Where areas for improvement were identified, Committee.
processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action in taken and that progress is monitored.
Paul Taylor Audit Committee Chairman The Groups Whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for any of 1 July 2013 the Non-Executive Directors to receive in confidence complaints on accounting, risk issues, fraud, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee.
Anite plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Remuneration Committee report Committee believes it is important that over the long-term executives The attached report sets out the policies adopted and are incentivised to, and rewarded for, delivering shareholder return and implemented by the Remuneration Committee over improved financial performance of the Wireless division.
To further the last 12 months and those we intend applying going increase alignment with shareholders the Committee believes it is forward.
We have set it out in a new format that more necessary that a portion of the long-term incentive potential should be closely matches the proposed BIS regulations that we subject to a significant personal investment by the Executive Director.
will be required to follow from next year.
Accordingly, the long-term incentive arrangement has been designed with two elements.
Directors are granted awards under the PSP as part The vote that we held at last years AGM on remuneration was passed of their long-term incentive programme.
The SMP then allows them to by a comfortable majority.
However we recognise that a minority of increase their risk opportunity under that same incentive programme shareholders who voted did not support last years report.
Broadly their through committing their own cash in terms of personal investment.
This concerns fell into three categories.
The principal issue was the scale of is deliberately designed to encourage equity participation by Directors salary increases awarded last year to the Executive Directors.
In addition and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
some shareholders have concerns that we use both a share matching plan the SMP and a performance share plan the PSP to motivate The severance terms of the Chief Executives contract are historical, and long-term performance.
Finally, a few shareholders continue to raise reflect accepted practice as it was when he was recruited ten years ago.
questions about the severance terms of the Chief Executives contract.
We have said for some years that they are not terms that we would use for new recruits and evidenced this with the contract awarded to the We set out in considerable detail in last years report the reasons behind Group Finance Director when he was recruited in 2009.
To change the above average salary increases granted that year to the Chief the Chief Executives contract however would require us to pay Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Before making these awards compensation now for him giving up protections which may in practice we had consulted with our largest shareholders who were supportive of never actually be used.
We do not consider this in the best interests of the proposals and the reasons behind them.
We were thus disappointed shareholders and accordingly intend to maintain the status quo.
that a minority of other investors decided to oppose the plans, in a number of cases simply because of the magnitude involved and Over the next 12 months the Committee will be considering the final irrespective of the reasoning.
This years review of salary levels for the proposals under the BIS regulations and any changes that need to be Executive Directors has resulted in awards of 3.0%.
This is below the made to remuneration policy and reporting.
These changes will be level awarded on average across the Group.
considered under the leadership of the newly appointed Committee Chairman who will have my full support through the transition period.
Certain investors have raised a concern over the fact that the PSP and the SMP which have been approved by shareholders in previous AGMs have David Hurst-Brown the same performance conditions and they see it that individuals are Remuneration Committee Chairman thus being awarded twice for the same performance.
To support the Companys key strategic objectives the Anite plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements The Committee also ensures that, when determining the Executive Basis of preparation of this report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Directors remuneration packages, due account is taken of pay and 2006 and associated legislation, the principles of the 2010 Corporate employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In this regard, the Governance Code, and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Committee ensures, via the Chief Executives and Group Finance Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
As required by the relevant Directors attendance at certain meetings, that it is kept fully abreast legislation, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the of all relevant Group-wide remuneration-related issues.
AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Committee ensures that remuneration structures neither encourage nor reward inappropriate operational risk-taking and are applied with due The Remuneration Committee has been kept up to date on the new account taken of the Companys risk policies and systems.
In addition, regulations that BIS has proposed for remuneration reporting, and has the Committee ensures that the incentive structures for Executive decided to adopt a number of the proposals for this years report.
This Directors and senior managers will not raise environmental, social or report is split into two sections: the Policy section, detailing our governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible remuneration objectives and how we plan to achieve them, and the behaviour.
More generally, with regard to overall remuneration Implementation section, detailing how we have applied our policy structures, there is no restriction on the Committee that prevents throughout the year.
Both sections of the report will be submitted to it from taking into account ESG matters.
shareholders for an advisory vote under one resolution at the AGM.
Reward structure Policy section The Executive Directors total remuneration packages consist of: Main principles of our policy base salary: The Companys objective is to attract, retain and incentivise high-calibre annual performance bonus: executives who can drive the business forward and increase shareholder pension contributions Group Finance Director only : value.
To meet this objective, the Company follows three key principles: other benefits and allowances: and total rewards are designed to be competitive, with the remuneration share-based long-term incentive arrangements.
package of each Executive Director and his direct reports benchmarked regularly against companies of a similar size and in How shareholders views are taken into account similar markets: The Chairman of the Committee meets with a number of major investors incentive-based rewards are seen as an important part of each from time to time to discuss remuneration and incentive plans for the Executive Directors remuneration package as they are designed to executives, giving them the opportunity to raise any related issues of drive and reward exceptional performance: and concern.
In arriving at the proposals for the current year, the Committee long-term incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests has also taken note of the specific issues that it understands were the of the Executive Directors and senior managers with those of the subject of last years shareholder concerns.
shareholders and to support the Companys business strategy.
