Anite plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued Responsibilities of the Board The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors meet without Executive The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate governance, Directors present at least once annually and the Non-Executive for establishing policies and objectives and for the stewardship of the Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet at least once Groups resources.
In accordance with paragraph A2 of the Code, it is the annually to assess the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Companys policy that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are satisfied separate with their roles and responsibilities clearly divided and recorded.
that the Chairman continues to perform effectively and demonstrates The Directors believe it is essential that the Company has an effective commitment to his role, including commitment of time to Board and Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Committee meetings and his other duties.
The regular and timely provision of information to the Board is ensured The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its through the monthly preparation and circulation to all Board members effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He also ensures that communication of the Chief Executives report, which reports on operational matters, with shareholders is effective and facilitates the contribution of the and the Group Finance Directors report, which provides the monthly Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for management accounts and other relevant financial information, and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board as a whole and for which also covers corporate governance, corporate social responsibility managing the Group.
The Board is made up of the Non-Executive and matters concerning the Companys shares, share schemes and Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and three shareholders.
Other matters are tabled on a regular basis at Board Non-Executive Directors.
David Hurst-Brown is the Senior Independent meetings or are reported to the Board as appropriate.
There have not been any changes to the Board during this financial year.
The Board has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for its decision which include: The Chairman was considered to be independent on his appointment to Strategy and management the Board.
It is the opinion of the Board that the three Non-Executive Structure and capital Directors are independent of management and have no business or other Financial reporting and controls relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their Internal controls and business risks judgement in relation to the business of the Company or the Group.
Major contracts Communication with shareholders The current Board includes a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Board membership and other appointments Directors so that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate Remuneration policy for Directors and other senior executives the Boards decision-making.
Delegation of authority Corporate governance matters, and Board agenda Approval of other key policies The Board operates formally through regular scheduled Board meetings and there is also frequent communication between the Directors outside The roles of Group Finance Director and Company Secretary are these meetings including as members of relevant committees.
combined which is felt appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group.
The day-to-day company secretarial responsibilities are shared The Board met formally 12 times during the year, with a number of between senior members of the Group finance team including the Group additional ad hoc meetings convened to deal with specific matters Financial Controller, who is also Secretary to the Audit Committee, requiring Board consideration or approval as required.
administers the executive share plans and assists with corporate governance reporting and the Head of Tax and Treasury, who is During the year, the Board attended an offsite strategy day and heard responsible for corporate structuring and annual compliance.
presentations by each of the divisional Managing Directors and also the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
This work led to the subsequent All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Finance formal presentation of the annual budget for the new financial year to the Director and Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board for approval.
The Board has also held formal Board meetings at Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
various venues including one at our Network Testing business in Oulu, Finland.
On a monthly basis the Board, received presentations from There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent divisional management on key business issues and have met both formally professional advice, paid for by the Company.
and informally with the management teams of the three businesses.
They have also been given business development and other presentations on Committees of the Board governance and strategy matters by other external presenters.
The composition and constitution of the Boards Committees are set out on page 35.
Each Committee has terms of reference which are reviewed Anite plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements regularly by the Board.
Copies are available on request from the an up to date knowledge of changes in legislation and governance Company Secretary or on the Groups website www.
Terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors Key performance indicators KPIs Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a term of three The Group uses a range of performance measures to measure and years.
These appointments are subject to re-election by shareholders.
manage the businesses within the Group.
In addition, the divisions have The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Non-Executive established their own performance indicators that are specific to their Directors are available for inspection by any person at Ancells Business individual businesses.
Park, Harvest Crescent, Fleet, Hampshire GU51 2UZ or the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours and at the Annual The Group KPIs for the year in review monitored order intake, revenue, General Meeting of the Company.
net revenue margin, research and development spend, adjusted operating profit and headcount.
Details are set out on page 31.
Board performance evaluation The effectiveness of the Board is essential to the success of the Company.
In addition to these Group KPIs, other measures are used covering Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its specific divisional measures such as cash generation, working capital own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
management, capital expenditure, product development progress and It has been agreed that every third year the evaluation will be carried major project performance.
out by an independent consultant.
In 2012 this evaluation was undertaken by Edis-Bates Associates Limited, an external independent consultant.
The Group reviews and refines the KPIs regularly, dependent on any The evaluation concluded the Board and each of its principal Committees major issues that are identified in the businesses.
were found to be operating effectively and made some suggestions on some process improvements that could be made including: Policies, approval limits, delegation and compliance improvements to the format of the annual strategy away day: The Board sets Group-wide policies including authority procedures and building on the work already begun on a formal executive Group accounting and procedures manuals which are adopted by each succession plan: subsidiary.
Local Managing Directors and Finance Managers are required introducing more formality into the operation of the Nomination to certify each half year that they have complied with the policies.
As Committee: and explained in the Audit Committee report on page 43, the Group has minor changes affecting the content and circulation of Board papers.
established a limited internal audit function.
This function reviews compliance with policies each year and reports to the Audit Committee We have implemented those recommendations into our processes during on its findings.
the year and Board papers are now circulated electronically to all members of the Board.
Included in Group policies are project management processes that are required to be followed for all major development projects in the Group.
Following the extensive externally facilitated process we undertook last The Group employs a Group Director of Project and Programme year, we have performed the assessment internally this year.
This Management to develop, implement and monitor these policies.
Included concluded that whilst there are things that we can continue to improve, within the policies are regular reporting requirements including, for the the Board and Committees are operating effectively and each Director is largest projects, regular updates to the Board.
making a positive contribution to the process.
Budgetary process and financial reporting The evaluation of Board performance will continue to be conducted The Group undertakes annually a rigorous budgeting exercise that annually with external evaluations carried out at least every three years follows on from an annual strategic planning process.
The output of the to ensure that the process is robust.
budgeting exercise is a Board-approved detailed financial plan with monthly profit and loss, balance sheet, cash flow and key performance Induction and development of Directors indicator projections.
Monthly management reporting of actual There have been no new appointments to the Board since November performance against these targets and monthly revised forecasts takes 2009, however it is the practice that all new Directors receive a place, with analysis of significant variances.
These reports are reviewed comprehensive tailored induction to the Company, including meeting via monthly business reviews attended by the Chief Executive, the Group major shareholders and advisers as required.
Finance Director, the Managing Director of the relevant business unit and its senior management team.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Each Director has submitted and discussed their individual training Director produce monthly summary reports to the Board which are requirements with the Chairman during the year and has attended reviewed at the Board meeting.
appropriate seminars and courses in order to ensure each maintains Anite plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued Management of the Group Principal risks The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
There is an Executive The principal risk factors that have been identified by the risk Committee formed of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director management process which may affect the Groups business are set and the Managing Director of each of the businesses.
Subject to defined out on pages 32 and 33.
These are not all within the Groups control.
approval limits, responsibility for the operations of each business is The list sets out the major risks, the potential impact and the mitigation delegated to the Managing Director of that business who has a separate strategies in place to limit the impact should the risk materialise.
Other management team to manage the day-to-day operations.
The Group risks, besides those listed, may also affect the Group.
Finance Director is also responsible for Human Resources within the Group.
Staffing skills and resource levels within business units are During the course of its review of the risk management and internal reviewed regularly to ensure adequacy, with a specific review done control systems, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any annually as part of the strategy and budget process.
In addition, there are failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
staff employed at a Group level in the areas of finance, human resources, Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been project management and IT infrastructure to define Group policy and considered appropriate.
Where specific skill shortfalls are identified, the Group employs external advisers, subject to defined approval levels.
Communications with shareholders The Board considers effective communication with its investors, Risk and internal control whether institutional, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group important and during the year, the Non-Executive Directors met maintains a sound system of internal control and risk management.
a number of major shareholders individually.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
There are limitations in any Members of the Board meet institutional investors regularly to provide an system of internal control and, accordingly, even the most effective opportunity to discuss, in the context of publicly available information, system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance the progress of the business.
Institutional investors and analysts are also against material misstatement or loss.
invited to attend briefings by the Company following the announcements of the annual and interim results.
There is an ongoing process in place for continually identifying, assessing and managing the material risks faced by the Group.
The Board retains The Company reports formally twice a year with the half-year results responsibility for this process, delegating day-to-day responsibilities to announcement and the preliminary announcement of the full-year the Executive Directors.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board, results.
An Interim statement is published on the Companys website complies fully with Turnbull guidance and has been in place throughout in December and the Annual Report and Accounts is published in July.
the year under review and to the date of this report.
In addition, as required under Article 6 of the Transparency Directive, the Company issues an interim management statement during each The Audit Committee is delegated responsibility for reviewing the half year.
These reports and other announcements the Company effectiveness of the internal control process as detailed on pages makes from time to time can be found on www.
Annual General Meeting The key procedures that the Board has established and which are The Companys AGM will be held on 26 September 2013 at the designed to provide effective internal control for the Group are Companys registered office in Slough.
The Notice of Meeting is sent as follows: to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
The Directors encourage the participation of private shareholders at the AGM and are Identification, mitigation and monitoring of business risks available for questions both formally during the meeting and informally Identification of business risks is an integral part of the system of internal afterwards.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination control.
The potential existence of new risks is continually being assessed Committees are normally available to answer questions at the AGM.
through monthly operational business review meetings, monthly Board meetings and other ad hoc assessments.
In addition, on an annual basis, Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf the Board considers the principal risks of the Group and each of the business units.
This is done in conjunction with the annual strategy Clay Brendish review and the annual budgeting exercise.
Risk registers are documented Chairman and mitigation strategies are considered and implemented where 1 July 2013 possible.
These include the purchasing of insurance where appropriate.
Monitoring processes are also designed to ensure regular reporting of indicators and impacts of risks.
A whistleblowing policy is in place to enable the confidential reporting of possible malpractice or dishonesty.
Anite plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report Members of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the three Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee may invite others, including external advisers, to attend its meetings as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee met formally twice during the year.
The following Directors were members of the Committee during 2012 13.
Number of Member Appointed Attended meetings We made some changes to the operation of the Clay Brendish Chairman Nomination Committee this year following the since September 2012 October 2005 2 2 output from last years Board evaluation.
David Hurst-Brown August 2004 2 2 The most externally obvious change was that in accordance with Paul Taylor October 2009 2 2 recognised best practice I took over the chairmanship of the Committee Christopher Humphrey February 2003 2 2 from David Hurst-Brown following the conclusion of the last AGM.
The other changes involved a clearer separation of the work of the Nigel Clifford April 2009 2 2 Committee from the wider work of the Board and the functioning of the Board was recognised as being more effective in the most Clay Brendish took over from David Hurst-Brown as Chairman of the recent Board evaluation.
Committee in September 2012, following the last AGM.
The principal work of the Committee this year has been around Principal responsibilities of the Committee recruiting a successor to David Hurst-Brown as Chairman of the The principal role of the Nomination Committee is to advise and make Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
We were recommendations to the Board with regard to the size, structure and delighted on 2 July to announce that Patrick fide Smedt will assume composition of the Board, the appointment of new Directors and the that role following the conclusion of the AGM on 26 September 2013. reappointment of existing Directors and to evaluate the balance of skills, He brings an excellent balance of skills and experience to the Board to knowledge and experience on the Board and consider any conflicts of complement those we already have.
He is a Belgian citizen and, as an interest that may be reported by Directors of the Group.
The Committee ex-Microsoft executive of 23 years, has wide ranging experience of follows formal, rigorous and transparent procedures when appointing international software businesses which we look forward to drawing new Directors which include the preparation of a job description, the on.
He has also served as the Remuneration Committee Chairman use of external advisers to facilitate the search and the evaluation of of two other UK listed companies and so brings recent and relevant candidates according to objective criteria.
All shortlisted candidates experience of that important discipline to replace those of David.
are interviewed by at least two members of the Committee.
Patricks recruitment followed a process run by an independent Independence and conflicts of interest external recruiting company not connected to Anite.
The brief given The Board considers that during the year under review, all Non-Executive to the recruiters was to find a shortlist of individuals with the right Directors were independent of executive management.
For any Director skills, experience and cultural fit to perform the role required of the Company to be considered independent, the Board must determine to the best benefit of the Company.
Additionally they were asked that the Director has no material relationship whether financial, business, where possible to include individuals who address at least one personal or otherwise with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or of the gender and international background areas missing from affiliates, directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation the current Board composition.
which in turn has a relationship with them.
The Committee continues to believe that appointing individuals with the right skills and experience is the first priority of recruiting.
We recognise that the recent appointment does not address the issue of lack of female representation on the Board.
We will seek to resolve this in future appointments, whilst retaining the principle that appointing the right person is the most crucial consideration.
Clay Brendish Nomination Committee Chairman Anite plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Nomination Committee report continued The Board considers each of its Independent Non-Executive Directors 2 Gender diversity to be independent in character and judgement and there are no Without seeking to set a specific goal for female representation relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear on the Board and wider Group, it remains our commitment to to affect the judgement of such Non-Executive Directors.
In the case of maintain a high level of diversity, including gender diversity, within Clay Brendish and David Hurst-Brown who have served on the Board for the Boardroom, appropriate to and reflecting the global nature of the more than six years and for whom the Board has rigorously assessed their Company and the strategic imperatives the Board has agreed upon performance, the Board considers their wide experience and knowledge and the Board will look to remedy the gender balance for future makes them valuable members of the Board.
The Committee continues to believe however that appointing individuals with the right skills and experience is the In order to be considered independent no Non-Executive Director has first priority of recruiting.
during the year under review: been an employee of the Group within the last five years: For the Group as a whole, out of the 581 employees in the Group had within the last three years, a material business relationship with approximately 25% are female and approximately 20% of the the Group: managers in the Group are also female, which is in line with IT received remuneration other than a Directors fee: industry statistics.
had close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, Directors or senior employees: 3 Succession planning held cross-directorships or had significant links with other Directors The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to ensure through involvement in other companies or bodies: that Board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking and represented a significant shareholder, or new ideas, is sufficiently diverse with an appropriate mix of general has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of and specialist skills and Non-Executive Directors have the necessary their first election.
level of independence from the executive and each other.
Work during the year During 2011 12 a detailed succession planning exercise was 1 Recruitment of new Chairman for the Remuneration Committee conducted for positions immediately below main Board level.
David Hurst-Brown will have been a Non-Executive Director for more During 2012 13 the Board managed the appointment of a successor than nine years at the time of the forthcoming AGM and as such will no to the Network Testing Managing Director, who retired at the end longer be considered as being independent under the provisions of the of this financial year and also undertook succession planning for Code.
He has therefore indicated his intention to step down as Chairman the Executive Directors.
of the Remuneration Committee and as Senior Independent Director after the AGM.
He will however remain on the Board.
The Committee In the coming year the Committee will continue to support the has undertaken a rigorous search for a replacement through a reputable succession plans and development and training of both the Executive recruitment agency JCA Group, who has no connection with the Directors and key managers.
Company, and who was asked if possible to include individuals who address at least one of the gender and international background areas missing from the current Board composition.
The appointment of Patrick Clay Brendish fide Smedt, will however address the previous lack of international Nomination Committee Chairman representation on the Board.
