Anite plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The following Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee during 2012 13 and are independent in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Maximum number of Member Appointed Attended meetings Paul Taylor Chairman since October 2009 4 4 December 2009 The Committee has this year continued its principal David Hurst-Brown August 2004 4 4 responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Nigel Clifford September 2012 3 3 Groups financial reporting, internal control policies 1 Clay Brendish resigned 1 and procedures for the identification, assessment September 2012 and reporting of risk.
Details of the work carried out in the year are set out in the report below.
1 Clay Brendish also attended two meetings and Nigel Clifford attended one meeting by invitation whilst not members.
Acknowledging the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance The Board considers that Paul Taylor, who is a Fellow of the Association Code, whereby the Chairman of the Company should not also be on the of Chartered Certified Accountants, has recent and relevant financial Audit Committee, Clay Brendish stepped down in September as a experience to act as Chairman of the Committee.
Nigel Clifford, Independent NonExecutive Director was appointed to the Audit Committee in his place.
Details of the relevant experience of the other committee members are Our work in the year included the review of internal audit reviews detailed on pages 36 and 37. carried out by our Group finance team in respect of inventory management across the Group and followed the implementation over Having reviewed the composition of the Committee during the year and the past year of upgraded ERP systems in our Network Testing and in line with the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code Handset Testing businesses.
Our Project Management Director also that the Company Chairman should not also be a member of the Audit carried out further major contract software development governance Committee, Clay Brendish, the Groups Chairman resigned from the reviews in our Handset Testing and Travel divisions to ensure Committee and Nigel Clifford was appointed in his place.
The Board is governance on major developments was being adhered to.
satisfied the Committee has the skills and resources to fulfil effectively its roles and responsibilities, including those in connection with risk and We have also reviewed specific judgement areas in respect of the half year internal controls.
Members are offered relevant training where necessary and full year reporting which have included the fair value assessments and to ensure such skills are kept current and at appropriate levels.
accounting for the acquisition of the Propsim Channel Emulator business in January 2013: reviewing the revenue recognition policies on major contracts and stock provisioning policy in respect of our own hardware platform.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are increasing following the updated UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2012 and more recent announcements by the FRC and BIS.
These will result in the increased oversight it will need to have on key judgement areas, leading to more detailed disclosure in the Audit Committee report on financial reporting, audit and risk.
We believe the appropriate frameworks are in place and are targeting the appropriate areas for review in the coming year.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditors for more than ten years and the Board considers we have had good independent effective service from them over that time.
However, the Board will, in accordance with the latest guidance under the UK Corporate Governance Code, be reviewing whether it should carry out an audit tendering process during the coming year.
Paul Taylor Audit Committee Chairman Anite plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Audit Committee report continued Role, responsibilities and terms of reference Work during the year The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, which are During the period under review the Committee met four times.
The reviewed and updated annually and which can be found on the meetings were held to review the results of the external audit for the Companys website at www.
previous financial year: discuss and agree scope of internal and external audits and reviews for the year, including the review of The Committees main responsibilities include: key areas of judgement.
making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the Companys external auditors, assessing their The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial performance and independence, monitoring the provision of year as follows: non-audit services and any potential impact on independence: reviewing the annual and interim financial statements and results 1 External audit announcements of the Company, including reviewing the Companys The Committee has considered the independence and effectiveness accounting policies and where requested by the Board, providing of Deloitte LLP and during the period reviewed and approved the advice on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole scope of the interim review and final audit.
The Audit Committee is fair, balanced and understandable: considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and monitoring and reviewing the Companys systems of internal control remains satisfied with their independence and effectiveness.
and risk management, including the whistleblowing procedures: and reviewing the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the Non-audit fee work conducted by Deloitte LLP over the past year for external and internal auditors, the results of their work and the tax services, corporate finance advice and half-year review assurance response of management.
services amounted to 16% of the audit fee work.
The Committee considers that the level and nature of non-audit work does not Meetings compromise the independence of the external auditors.
There are no The Committee invites others, including the external auditors, the contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external Group Finance Director, and the Chief Executive, to attend its meetings auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for as appropriate.
The Group Financial Controller is the Secretary to money of the audit.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement The Committee meets with the external auditors without any Executive partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five Directors present, at least twice annually and more often if this is years and the current lead audit partner, Mr Peter ODonoghue, who considered appropriate.
was appointed in October 2008, has now completed five year-end audits and as a result will step down as audit engagement partner as of the signing of these accounts.
The Committee recognises that the current auditors and their legacy predecessors have been in place for more than ten years.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, and considering the FRCs guidance on aligning the timing of such tenders with the audit engagement partner rotation cycle, the Committee will be reviewing whether it should carry out an audit tendering process during the coming year.
Notwithstanding the above, the Committee has recommended to the Board and shareholders that Deloitte LLP should be reappointed as the Groups auditors at the AGM on 26 September 2013.
