Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Audit Committee report Membership and remit of the Audit Committee The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain oversight of the Mitchells & Butlers corporate governance, particularly with respect to financial reporting, internal control and risk management.
The Audit Committees responsibilities also include: Colin Rutherford Chair of the reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and Audit Committee internal control weaknesses: reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function: and overseeing the relationship with the external auditors.
Introduction from the Audit Committee Chair At the date of the 2013 Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprises Following my appointment as Chair of the Audit Committee in July 2013, three Independent Non-Executive Directors: Colin Rutherford Chair, I am delighted to present on behalf of the Board our Audit Committee Imelda Walsh, Stewart Gilliland and two further Non-Executive report for the financial year ended 28 September 2013.
I would like to Directors, nominated by substantial shareholders, Ron Robson and take this opportunity to thank Ron Robson for his efforts as Audit Eddie Irwin.
In accordance with Code provision C. 3.1 the Board Committee Chair over the previous two years.
considers that Colin Rutherford has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
Biographies of all of the members of the Audit Since my appointment, I have been committed to gaining a broad Committee, including a summary of their experience, appear on page 37. understanding of the Company, its operations and its challenges and have spent valuable time with key individuals across the Group who Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive have collectively provided me with an appreciation and useful insight Directors in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed into how the Company functions.
The main areas of focus since July 2013 with effect from 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference established, have been to consider the critical accounting judgements and the key in order to move more in line with Code requirements.
The Audit operational and financial risks facing the business.
Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
The full Board reviewed audit matters at three meetings during FY 2013 and the Audit A key area of the Audit Committees work going forward will be to Committee reviewed audit matters at its first meeting in September 2013. work closely with both the external auditors and the Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management.
This will enable me to gain an in-depth When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and understanding on how external audit works with Group Assurance to experiences of its members with advice from internal and external give comprehensive coverage on the overall audit process and how audit professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in it uses its resources if any additional assurance could be provided financial reporting.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by where necessary.
invitation, by members of the Board, the Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management and representatives of the external auditors, Deloitte The role of the Audit Committee is now more important than ever in LLP.
The Audit Committee also meets privately not less than twice reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, providing a year, without any member of management present, with the Director assurance on the Group risk management processes and assessing and of Group Assurance & Risk Management in relation to internal audit acting upon information received by external auditors and internal audit.
matters and with the external auditors.
As we work together as a newly formed Audit Committee, over time The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out we will develop a better appreciation for additional information that in the Report on Directors remuneration on page 59.
Committee members may need in order to maintain effectiveness and add value to the Group.
Terms of reference A copy of the Audit Committees terms of reference is publicly Colin Rutherford available within the Investor section of the Companys website: Chair of the Audit Committee http: www.
com pdf audit committee terms.
pdf The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are expected to co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Chair of the Audit Committee reports to the subsequent Board meeting on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Audit Committee report continued The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Disclosure of significant issues considered The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in } review the Companys public statements on internal control, the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are risk management and corporate governance compliance: described in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct financial statements on pages 73 to 98.
The Audit Committees review and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response included consideration of the following key accounting judgements: to any such occurrence: review managements evaluation of any change in internal Property the Groups freehold and long leasehold assets form controls over financial reporting: the vast majority of the 3.9bn property, plant and equipment review with management and the external auditor Company value on the balance sheet.
The Groups policy is to undertake an financial statements required under UK legislation before annual valuation of freehold and long leasehold properties based submission to the Board: on inspection of 20% of the sites by the Groups independent establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of chartered surveyors.
Significant accounting judgements are made the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, whose in respect of valuation multiples and in determining levels of fair objective is to provide independent assurance over the Groups maintainable trade.
This is a prime area of audit focus: significant processes and controls, including those in respect Pensions actuarial assumptions, including judgements in relation of the Groups key risks: to long-term interest rates, inflation, longevity and investment assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, returns, are taken on advice from the Groups pension adviser.
resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditor, The final calculations in respect of the defined benefit pension including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: scheme liability are performed by our pension scheme actuary.
pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external The Audit Committee also considered the restatement of the prior auditor and the fees to be paid for that work together with the period end pension deficit, as described in note 8 to the financial monitoring of the external auditors independence: statements: and oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by Taxation assessment of judgements made in relation to uncertain the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or tax positions, regarding the outcome of negotiations with and auditing matters and any confidential, anonymous submission enquiries from HM Revenue & Customs.
Judgements have been by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting made following discussion with the Groups tax advisers and or auditing matters: and internal review.
adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all corporate employees which is consistent with the Companys overall Effectiveness of internal audit statement of business ethics.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
The Audit Key activities of the Audit Committee Committee meets regularly with management and with the internal and Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls and risk throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
management and receives reports from the Director of Group Assurance The Audit Committee commissions reports from external advisers, & Risk Management on a quarterly basis.
the Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management, or Company management, either after consideration of the Companys major The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee risks or in response to developing issues.
During the year, the Board and kept under review on a monthly basis, by the Director of Group until July 2013 and the Audit Committee after July 2013 considered Assurance & Risk Management, in order to reflect the changing the following matters: business needs and to ensure new and emerging risks are considered.
The Audit Committee is informed of any amendments made to the audit the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: plan on a quarterly basis.
The FY 2013 internal audit plan was developed half year and full year financial results: through a review of formal risk assessments in conjunction with the the scope and cost of the external audit: Risk Committee and the Groups Executive Committee together with the external auditors half year and full year reports: consideration of the Groups key business processes and functions reappointment and evaluation of the performance of the external that could be subject to audit.
A similar approach has been employed auditor, including recommendations to the Board for approval in relation to the FY 2014 internal audit plan.
by shareholders, on the appointment of the Companys external auditors and approval of fees and terms of engagement: The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2013 were, non-audit work carried out by the external auditor and trends and remain for FY 2014: in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: are being managed effectively: the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its to confirm that controls over core business functions and resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal processes are operating as intended core assurance : and audit plan for FY 2013 regarding the level of achievement and to confirm that major projects and significant business the scope of the internal audit plan for FY 2014: change programmes are being adequately controlled.
periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group Assurance: During FY 2013, 24 audit reports were issued by the Group Assurance the Groups Risk Management framework for the identification function and reviewed by the Board or the Audit Committee.
Internal and control of major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation audit recommendations are closely monitored through to closure plan and the annual assessment of control effectiveness: via a web-based recommendation tracking system, introduced in compliance with the Companys Code of Ethics: FY 2013, which has improved the overall monitoring of internal audit corporate governance developments: recommendations to ensure these are successfully implemented in a the status of material litigation involving the Group: and timely manner.
A summary of the status of the implementation of internal reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing audit recommendations is made monthly to the Executive Committee procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures and quarterly to the Audit Committee.
including a summary of reports received during FY 2013.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Risk management framework The external auditor may carry out certain specified non-audit work, As disclosed in the Risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 to 20, in areas that have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee, up to the Risk Committee continues to meet on a quarterly basis to review a monetary limit of half the audit fee per transaction and subject to an the key risks facing the business.
The Risk Committee met on four annual total cap of no more than the audit fee.
Any other work for which occasions in FY 2013.
Membership of the Risk Committee, which management wishes to utilise the external auditor must be approved, includes representation from each of the key business functions, subject to a fide minimis limit, normally by the Committee or its Chair, is detailed below: for engagements up to a monetary limit of 50,000, subject to an annual total cap of 100,000 by the Finance Director.
Acquisition and vendor Company Secretary and General Counsel Chair due-diligence may only be provided by the external auditor if specifically Group Finance Director approved by the Committee on a case-by-case basis in advance of any Group HR Director engagement commencing.
The pre-approved services may be Operations Director summarised as follows: Director of Business Change & Technology Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed on a quarterly basis statutory accounts: and in terms of their likelihood and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, Map, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, the tax planning and tax advice.
Risk Committees review includes an assessment of the material relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of previously identified External audit annual assessment risks.
Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are followed up by the The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management.
The Audit Committee resources and independence of the Groups external auditors and reviews the quarterly Risk Committee minutes, in addition to a review the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Finance Director, Company of the Groups Key Risk Heat Map at least every six months.
Secretary and General Counsel, Audit Committee Chair and Director of Group Assurance & Risk Management meet with the external auditors to Confidential reporting discuss the audit and any key issues included on the Audit Committees The Groups whistleblowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise agenda during the year.
concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters and to do so without fear of reprisal.
Details of the policy are set out The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the external in the Companys Code of Ethics.
The Audit Committee receives auditors for the financial year 2013 and has satisfied itself as to their quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied qualification, expertise and resources and remains confident that their that the procedures in place are satisfactory to enable independent objectivity and independence are not in any way impaired by reason of investigation and follow up action of all matters reported.
No major the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
The Committee issues have been reported in FY 2013 major issues being defined for has recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders, the this purpose as matters having a financial impact greater than 100k.
reappointment of Deloitte LLP, as the Groups external auditors.
Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM on 30 January 2014 to External auditor appointment reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise Deloitte LLP were appointed as external auditors in 2011 following a the Directors to agree their remuneration for the FY 2014 audit.
The Audit Committee has considered the new guidance in relation to auditor rotation including the proposed transition Fair, balanced and understandable statement rules which will be considered when recommending the appointment of One of the key governance requirements of a Groups financial the external auditor in future years.
The Audit Committee considers that statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and the relationship with the auditors is working well and is satisfied with their understandable.
Therefore, in order for the Audit Committee and effectiveness and has not considered it necessary to require Deloitte LLP the Board to be satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and to re-tender for the external audit work.
There are no contractual clarity of the Annual Report, it is underpinned by the following: obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
Following their appointment as external auditor, Deloitte LLP were formal minutes of the year end working group: replaced in respect of the provision of internal audit services by clear guidance issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent  LLP.
approach: and formal review processes at all levels to ensure the Annual Report External auditors independence is factually correct.
The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the Groups Approved by the Board external auditors: details of the policy are summarised below.
The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and independence Colin Rutherford of the external auditors are not in any way impaired by reason of the Chair of the Audit Committee non-audit services which they provide to the Group.
25 November 2013 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
