1.1 Matters reserved for the Board Corporate governance statement For part of the year, while the Board understood which matters were reserved as matters for the Board, there was no formal schedule setting The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with the 2010 UK out these matters.
On 24 September 2013 the Board formally adopted a Corporate Governance Code the Code, which is issued by the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board based on the model issued Financial Reporting Council and which is available at www.
by ICSA in July 2013 but tailored to the individual needs of the Company This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an and the Company is now compliant with this provision.
appropriate balance of skills and experience represented on the Board and maintaining relations with shareholders.
2.1 Division of responsibilities For a few days at the beginning of the year, the Board did not comply A new edition of the Code was published in September 2012 and with the requirement of the Code for the Chairman and Chief Executive applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
As roles to be assumed by different individuals.
Alistair Darby was appointed our 2013 reporting period began before this date, we are continuing to as Chief Executive on 8 October 2012 and Bob Ivell resumed his role as report against the June 2010 edition of the Code, although the Board Non-Executive Chairman on 12 November 2012 following completion has adopted some of the new provisions in the revised code earlier of an induction period by Mr Darby and the Board has, since then, than required.
been fully compliant with provision A.
For our latest financial information go to: www.
6.3 Chairmans performance appraisal For part of the year, there were no Independent Non-Executive It gives me great pleasure to take this opportunity to update you on our Directors on the Board of the Company and as a result, the role of progress in corporate governance over the past year.
We have made Senior Independent Director remained vacant and the Company significant improvements during the year both to our Board structure did not comply with provision A.
The Board has only and our governance procedures and I am delighted to be able to report recently appointed further Non-Executive Directors and the Nomination that many of the compliance deficiencies that we highlighted in our Committee is still considering the most appropriate candidate to 2012 Annual Report, no longer apply.
We have appointed a Chief be identified as Senior Independent Director.
In the meantime, all Executive and three Independent Non-Executive Directors in order Directors will be available to shareholders, via the Company Secretary, to achieve a more balanced Board and we have updated the Terms to address any questions raised.
of Reference of all our Board Committees, which are now in line with current best practice.
Full details are set out below.
In light of the fact that the Company has no Senior Independent Director and has only relatively recently appointed Independent Non-Executive Bob Ivell Directors, an annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance was not Chairman conducted in the financial year.
Annual reviews of the Chairmans performance will be conducted as required by the Code and this has The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in been specifically included in the Boards forward timetable for the creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details are 2013 14 financial year.
set out in this statement of the Companys corporate governance procedures and application of the principles of the Code.
1.2 Composition of the Board and B.
2.1, C. 3.1, D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 Constitution of Committees Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code For part of the year there were no Independent Non-Executive For part of the year, the Board was not fully constituted in compliance Directors on the Board.
Three Independent Non-Executive Directors with the Code, which impacted governance in the form of Board and were appointed during the year, meaning that the Board moved Committee appointments and membership and the frequency of significantly further towards compliance with the provisions of the Code Committee meetings.
It meant that for part of the year, as described relating to Board composition.
While the Board does not comply fully more fully below, all Committee functions were undertaken by the with the requirement for at least half of its members to be independent, full Board.
it recognises and values the presence of representatives of its major shareholders on the Board and welcomes the interest shown by them Following the appointment of three Independent Non-Executive Directors in their investment.
The Board will continue to work closely with the in April and May 2013, Committee members were appointed with effect major shareholders to further the interests of the Company.
from 11 July 2013 in order to move more in line with Code requirements.
New Terms of Reference for the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination The absence of Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board for Committees and a Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board were part of the year meant that the Nomination Committee, Audit Committee adopted, based on the model Terms of Reference and Schedule of and Remuneration Committee were not constituted in accordance with, Matters Reserved for the Board issued by the Institute of Chartered and could not meet, conduct business or undertake the actions provided Secretaries & Administrators ICSA in June and July 2013 respectively.
for in, the Code and, during such time, all Committee matters were Full details can be found in the Companys Corporate Governance handled by the full Board.
Following the appointment of the three Compliance Statement which is available from the Company Secretary.
new Independent Non-Executive Directors in April and May 2013, the Company now has fully functioning committees as required by the Code.
The vast majority of the non-compliance issues highlighted in our 2012 The Committees are not fully compliant in that they include the presence Annual Report were resolved during the year ended 28 September 2013, of representatives of major shareholders: nevertheless the Board values as set out below.
There are some areas where the Company does not their contribution, does not consider this to be an impediment to good fully comply and we have set out our reasons below, as permitted under governance and looks forward to working with them on governance the Comply or Explain provisions of the Code.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 B.
6.2 Evaluation During the year, three new Independent Non-Executive Directors were Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided appointed to the Board.
Those newly appointed Directors have now with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were completed their induction, facilitated by the Company Secretary.
In July able to discuss issues arising direct with the Chairman.
There are 11 2013, the Board confirmed the composition of its Audit, Remuneration Board meetings currently planned for FY 2014. and Nomination Committees.
The Board, and each of those Committees, have now agreed their respective terms of reference and the Board has Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings adopted a series of corporate governance procedures, including a list of matters reserved by the Board for its own decision.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee In light of the fact that the newly constituted Board has only recently Current Directors who served during the year settled into a regular pattern of activity, the Board feels that a detailed Bob Ivell 10 10 1 1 evaluation, at this stage, would be premature.
However, as the Board Alistair Darby 10 10 1 Stewart Gilliland 2 3 1 1 1 1 and its Committees establish a pattern of activity, the Nomination Eddie Irwin 10 10 1 1 1 1 Committee, chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman, in conjunction with Tim Jones 10 10 the Company Secretary will review during the 2013 14 financial year the Douglas McMahon 8 10 most appropriate fashion for conducting a Board evaluation.
It is likely Ron Robson 8 10 0 1 0 1 that any externally facilitated evaluation will not be held until at least the 2 Colin Rutherford 4 4 1 1 1 1 FY 2014 15 financial year but this is still being kept under review.
2 Imelda Walsh 4 4 1 1 1 1 The information required by Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 47 to 49.
The Former Directors who served during the year information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this corporate governance Doug Evans 4 4 statement, other than that required under DTR 7.2.
Appointed 23 May 2013. the Directors report on pages 38 to 40.
Board composition Directors A table listing all changes to the Board during the year is in the table The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended opposite.
On 8 October 2012, Alistair Darby was appointed as 28 September 2013: Chief Executive, on 22 April 2013 Colin Rutherford and Imelda Date Date of Walsh were appointed as Independent Non-Executive Directors appointed change of role and on 23 May 2013 Stewart Gilliland was appointed as a further Current Directors who served during the year Independent Non-Executive Director.
Bob Ivell Independent Non- 09 05 11 14 07 11 1 Executive Director The Board 1 Interim Chairman 14 07 11 26 10 11 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, Executive Chairman 26 10 11 12 11 12 development and control of the Group.
It approves strategic plans and Non-Executive 12 11 12 annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment Chairman proposals and the performance of past investments and maintains Alistair Darby Chief Executive 08 10 12 an overview and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, Stewart Gilliland Independent 23 05 13 governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary financial and Non-Executive human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Director 2 Eddie Irwin Non-Executive 21 03 12 The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Director Non-Executive Director appointment with the Boards prior approval Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
3 Douglas McMahon Non-Executive 15 10 10 Director The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good 3 Ron Robson Non-Executive 22 01 10 information flows to the Board and between senior management and Director the Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment and removal of the Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Company Colin Rutherford Independent 22 04 13 Secretary is responsible, through the Chairman, for advising the Board Non-Executive on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Directors Director with their professional development.
This includes regular corporate Imelda Walsh Independent 22 04 13 governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of Non-Executive operational site visits and the provision of external courses where Director required.
The Company Secretary facilitated a comprehensive induction for the newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements Date Date and including guidance on requirements of, and Directors duties in appointed ceased connection with, the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other Former Directors who served during the year relevant legislation.
Externally facilitated Board training on legal and Doug Evans Director 26 10 11 31 01 13 governance development relevant to the Company is included in the Boards forward timetable of activities.
Independent while in the role specified.
Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida Limited.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc. During FY 2013 there were 10 scheduled Board meetings.
There was also one meeting of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
No meetings of the Nomination Committee were held.
The table below shows attendance levels at the Board and Committee meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets confirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend during the year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Corporate governance statement continued Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on Board Information and Training page 56 and on the Companys website.
The Chairman and each of the All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings in for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from of the Groups business is enhanced by business specific presentations at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
and operational visits to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and meetings with senior executives are also held throughout All the Companys Directors are required to stand for annual the year.
The training needs of Directors are formally considered on re-election in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the Code and the an annual basis and are also monitored throughout the year with Companys Articles of Association.
Their biographical details as at appropriate training being provided as required.
25 November 2013 are set out on page 37, including their main commitments outside the Company.
Committees Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by Chairman the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chairman on 26 October 2011 and reverted to the role of Non-Executive Chairman on For part of FY 2013 until 11 July 2013, the business which would normally 12 November 2012 following the completion of an induction period by be considered by Committees was considered by the Board as a whole.
Alistair Darby who was appointed Chief Executive on 8 October 2012.
The Chairman ensures that appropriate communication is maintained Audit Committee with shareholders.
He has responsibility for running the Board and Details of the Audit Committee are included in the Audit Committee for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant report on pages 47 to 49 and are incorporated by reference into to their roles.
Chief Executive Remuneration Committee Bob Ivell discharged the duties of the Chief Executive from Details of the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report on 26 October 2011 until the appointment of Alistair Darby on Directors remuneration on pages 50 to 64 and are incorporated by 8 October 2012, with a formal handover of responsibilities taking reference into this Statement.
place on 12 November 2012 following completion of an induction period by Mr Darby.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the The Chief Executive has responsibility for implementing the strategy approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is agreed by the Board and for the executive management of the Group.
also responsible for succession planning and reviewing the output of any Board effectiveness review.
A detailed description of the duties Senior Independent Director of the Nomination Committee is set out within its terms of reference The Board has not currently identified any of its members as Senior which can be viewed at www.
com Independent Director although this is a matter which the Nomination Committee is keeping under review in the light of the appointments The following were members of the Nomination Committee during of Independent Non-Executive Directors in April and May 2013. the year: Appointment Member at date 28 09 13 Non-Executive Directors The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.
Bob Ivell Chair 11 07 13 Y Bob Ivell was considered to be independent upon his appointment on Stewart Gilliland 11 07 13 Y 9 May 2011, in that he was free from any business or other relationship Eddie Irwin 11 07 13 Y Ron Robson 11 07 13 Y which could materially influence his judgement and he represented Colin Rutherford 11 07 13 Y a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
Since his Imelda Walsh 11 07 13 Y appointment as Chairman on 14 July 2011, as set out in the Code, the independence test is no longer appropriate to apply to his position.
During the year, the Company did not comply with provision B.
2.1 of the Code in respect of a Nomination Committee consisting of a majority Ron Robson and Douglas McMahon have been appointed to the Board of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Prior to the appointment of as representatives of the Companys largest shareholder, Piedmont Inc. Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford and Imelda Walsh, the Nomination and are therefore not regarded as independent in accordance with Committee was not fully constituted, no meetings were held and its role the Code.
was taken on by the full Board, so that there was at all times a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors Eddie Irwin has been appointed to the Board as a representative of the to the Board.
Directors did not attend the relevant meetings where Companys second largest shareholder, Elpida Limited, and is therefore their own roles were being discussed.
Following the appointment of not regarded as independent in accordance with the Code.
the three Independent Non-Executive Directors in April and May 2013, Nomination Committee members were appointed with effect from There are currently three Independent Non-Executive Directors on 11 July 2013, and revised terms of reference established, in order the Board, Stewart Gilliland, Colin Rutherford and Imelda Walsh.
to move more in line with Code requirements.
Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 59, the The Board considered the appointments of Colin Rutherford, Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company Imelda Walsh and Stewart Gilliland.
Independent advice was taken in during the year.
When Non-Executive Directors are considered for relation to their appointments from Spencer Stuart, an executive search appointment, the Board will take into account their other responsibilities and leadership consulting firm.
Any Director unable to attend a meeting in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their was provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting prospective directorship.
and was able to discuss issues arising direct with the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 General Purposes Committee Internal control and risk management The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures by an Executive Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to necessary to apply the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code for the the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
Such procedures are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Executive Committee The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive systems include: previously by the Chairman, consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives, namely Matthew Jenkins Marketing An overall governance framework including: Director, Gary John Group Property Director, Susan Martindale Group HR Director, Greg McMahon Company Secretary and i. clearly defined delegation of authority and reporting lines: General Counsel and Robin Young Operations Director.
a c omprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees are required to follow: and The Executive Committee meets at least every four weeks and has dayiii.
t he Groups Code of Ethics, in respect of which an annual to-day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops confirmation of compliance is obtained from all corporate the Groups strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets for Board employees.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant investment proposals.
Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of: This Committee monitors the financial and operational performance i. f inancial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by accounting and reporting framework: the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an ii.
s trategic plan achievement: appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower iii.
c apital investment and asset management performance, with planning and succession plans.
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews: and iv.
c onsumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats to Independent advice ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant.
Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal process The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee, for such advice to be made available.
Members of the Board also have which assists the Board, Audit Committee and Executive access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General Committee in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating, Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and its external auditor.
The Risk Committee, which met four times during FY 2013, is chaired by the Company Secretary Code of Ethics and General Counsel and comprises Executive Committee The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines describing members and other members of senior management from a cross the standards of behaviour expected from those working for the Company, section of functions.
Its primary responsibilities are to: via a Code of Ethics the Ethics Code.
Its aim is to promote honest and ethical conduct throughout our business, and it applies to all corporate i. a dvise the Executive Committee on the Companys overall risk employees.
The Ethics Code requires: appetite and strategy, taking account of the current and prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and financial compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply environments: to the Company and its officers including the Bribery Act 2010: ii.
a dvise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest risk exposures of the Company in the context of the overall risk between internal and external, personal and professional appetite and strategy: relationships: and iii.
promote the management of risk throughout the organisation: that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved, iv.
r eview and monitor the Companys capability and processes to with a presumption against its acceptance.
identify and manage risks: v. c onsider the identified key risks faced by the Company and The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has new and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of developed an extensive Bribery Policy.
The Ethics Code requires mitigation plans in respect of such risks: and employees to comply with the Bribery Policy.
w here mitigation plans are inadequate, recommend improvement actions.
The Company also offers an independently administered, confidential, whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any The Group risks identified by the processes that are managed by the Risk concern that they feel is inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
Committee are described in Risks and uncertainties on pages 18 to 20.
All whistleblowing allegations are reported to and considered by the Executive Committee and Board.
Examination of business processes on a risk basis including reports from the Internal Audit function, known as Group Assurance, The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical which reports directly to the Audit Committee.
matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Directors are made aware of and receive training in respect of such matters.
The Board is also responsible for the Companys internal risk management system, in respect of which more details can be found in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report, and below.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Corporate governance statement continued The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures, Board effectiveness evaluation for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting As explained above, in view of the recent changes to the Board, a and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems, policies detailed evaluation was not carried out during FY 2013.
It is expected and procedures: that during FY 2014, the Nomination Committee, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and General Counsel, will review the most govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in appropriate method for conducting a Board evaluation with the reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions: expectation that any externally facilitated evaluation will not take require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled, place until at least FY 2015. with monitoring by the Board: and provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded Going concern as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements The Directors statement as to going concern can be found on page 40. in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate.
In accordance with the Code, during the year the Audit Committee completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, in the opinion of the Audit Committee, the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and to the extent that weaknesses in internal controls were identified, the Audit Committee confirms that necessary remedial action plans are in place.
The Audit Committee is not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance from an external independent body, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Shareholder relations The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally updates the market on its financial performance at least five times a year, at the half year and full year results in May and November respectively, the interim management statements in January and July and by way of a pre-close trading update in September.
The content of these updates is available by webcast on the Companys website, together with general information about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its larger shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly report to the Board the views of larger shareholders about the Company, and the other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with larger shareholders.
The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46
