32 Directors report Governance Chairmans Introduction Roger Matthews A strong culture of governance has continued to underpin MITIEs activities during 2013.
In this governance section, we explain how the main principles of good governance are applied across the group and the principal changes we have made during the year to our board governance processes, systems of assurance, risk management and control.
The Board recognises that the manner in which the group is governed is critical to its long-term success, for which it is accountable to shareholders.
The Board confirms the group has complied with all the relevant provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code throughout the year.
During 2013, the Board, with the help of its committees, has continued to ensure that sufficient time is spent reviewing and discussing strategy, risk, performance, investor engagement and key matters of governance.
This is facilitated by effective planning to ensure that the right information is provided to support the decision making of the Board.
An overview of the activities and the effectiveness of each of our Board Committees is explained further on pages 41 to 44.
Key areas of governance that have been reviewed during the year include: Board composition The Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and its Committees and recommended the appointment of Crawford Gillies as a Non-Executive Director during the year.
Crawford adds considerable experience to the Board, particularly in relation to his breadth of strategic insight and global perspective.
Further, the Committee is proposing the appointment of Jack Boyer to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2013.
Jack brings broad, strategic and operational experience of entrepreneurial and international businesses to the Board.
All Directors, with the exception of Graeme Potts, will be standing for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting AGM with Crawford Gillies and Jack Boyer standing for election.
Risk management Our Enterprise Risk Management programme provides additional training and guidance and enhances the way in which risk is identified, managed, assessed and measured throughout the group.
Internal control processes The Board is responsible for confirming that the groups systems of risk management and internal controls are sound and appropriate for the group.
During the year the Board reviewed and updated this process to take the groups increasing scale and change in business mix into account.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
