Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 35 Governance Leadership Director Board Number of meetings held in year: 6 Chairman R J Matthews 6 Chief Executive R McGregor-Smith CBE 6 Executive Directors S C Baxter 5 W Robson 6 Non-Executive Directors C S Gillies 5 of 5 L Hirst CBE 6 D S Jenkins 6 T K Morgan CBE 6 G J Potts 6 1 I Stewart 1 of 1 Note: 1 Ian Stewart resigned on 21 May 2012 Responsibilities and activities of the Board All Directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with the Director concerned.
The Chairman The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is responsible for the effective running and leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness.
He liaises with the Company Secretary on the annual Board plan and sets and agrees the Board agendas.
Key matters covered at each Board meeting include: strategy, enterprise risk management, financial and management reporting, investor relations and corporate governance, with updates received from each of the Committee Chairmen.
He ensures that sufficient time is allocated to promote healthy discussion and open debate, supported by the right level and quality of information to assist the Board in reaching its decisions.
The Chairman encourages openness and regular communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, a culture which has been facilitated by meetings between the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the NonExecutive Directors contribute effectively and that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are aware of the views of major shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and for the effective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Executive Directors The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the group and its business within the authorities delegated to her by the Board.
She is responsible for developing and effectively implementing strategy following approval of the strategic and financial plan by the Board.
The Chief Executives remit includes proposing investment into new business and geographical areas and ensuring at all times that the groups risk profile is appropriately considered.
She ensures the timely and accurate disclosure of information to the Board and to shareholders.
She leads the Executive Directors and senior management team in the day-to-day running of the groups business under clear delegation of authority from the Board.
The Chief Executive maintains regular dialogue with the Chairman on all important Company matters and together they provide coherent leadership of the group.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36 Governance The Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement.
In reviewing the proposals for the strategic direction of the group, the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and probe the Executive Directors, offering a breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and are responsible for contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
The Non-Executive Directors monitor high level corporate reporting and satisfy themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key financial controls.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to make himself available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
The Senior Independent Director in particular reviews information on major shareholders and financial analysis to obtain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
Explained further below is the Senior Independent Directors role in succession planning and performance evaluation for the Chairman.
Board activities The Board is collectively responsible for the sustainable long-term success of the Company and accordingly reviews and agrees the strategy for the group, proposed by the Executive Directors, on an annual basis.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of key matters such as: market trends: competitive environment: private public sector approach: international aspects: finance: people and talent: and, the MITIE Model, ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to risk and internal controls.
Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include: setting group objectives and strategies: approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these: approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups including any material transactions outside of the normal course of business : approving the groups Half-yearly and Annual Report and Accounts: appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary: management of the groups risk profile: and, monitoring the groups corporate governance arrangements.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, there were six scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the review and approval of material transactions, key contracts, acquisitions and issues relating to shares and other administrative matters.
Effectiveness Board evaluation The Board is committed to reviewing the effectiveness of its performance and that of the Committees and individual Directors.
During the year, the current evaluation process has been objectively reviewed and considered by the Nomination Committee.
It was agreed that the Chairman will meet on a one-to-one basis with each of the Directors, which will enable more informative feedback on Board and Committee effectiveness.
The conclusions and recommendations of the evaluation review meetings are shared with the Board.
Evaluation of the Chairman is passed to the Senior Independent Director to discuss with the Chairman.
Whilst the Board is comfortable with its effectiveness and that of its Committees and Directors, there is a continuing need for the Board to focus on the strategic development of the group, particularly in reviewing the key growth sectors in the UK for outsourcing and the groups international strategy.
Consideration will be given over the coming year to the Code requirement to undertake an externally facilitated board evaluation every three years.
Director re-election The Board has considered the performance of each Director as part of the annual board evaluation and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and to demonstrate clear commitment to their roles.
All Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, except Graeme Potts who will be standing down.
Director induction All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to MITIE which includes visits to group and key client sites.
They receive an information pack, which includes: copies of MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association: latest Annual Report and Accounts: Committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board and Committee minutes: and, supporting papers.
Directors are given access to the virtual boardroom which, as well as holding all board reports, contains the Board Handbook detailing essential information about: the Company: Board and Committee terms of reference: Directors statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the groups approved delegated authorities: and, an overview of the groups insurance arrangements.
The Handbook is reviewed and updated regularly as and when regulatory developments arise.
Training and development for Directors continues to be a key focus and additional briefing notes are circulated on matters such as changes in the regulatory and governance environment.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 37 Accountability and assurance Risk management approach The effective management of risk is integral to the successful achievement of the groups strategic objectives and in delivering stakeholder value through sustainable, profitable growth.
The Board is accountable for the effectiveness of the groups risk management programme and systems of internal control which are reviewed on behalf of the Board by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives regular updates from the groups Enterprise Risk Director on potential material risks that may impact upon the group and the environment in which it operates.
Risk management processes Processes are in place to ensure that each operating division and supporting function identifies and assesses the risk in achieving its objectives, and identifies associated mitigation measures and the potential impact of the crystallisation of those risks.
During the year, formal risk management workshops were undertaken to ensure consistency in the risk identification and assessment process.
This information is captured in divisional, functional and business risk registers which are consolidated and summarised by the Enterprise Risk function in the form of the Group risk register.
This register is formally monitored on a regular basis by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and their teams to allow effective decision making and resource allocation in managing the groups significant risks, ahead of its submission to the PLC Board for review.
Responsibility for specific areas of risk flows through the business, with accountability and responsibility assigned to managers and employees at the relevant level of the organisation.
The Board confirms that this risk assessment process has been in place throughout the reporting year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, considers the nature and extent of significant risks in setting the groups strategy: these are detailed further in the principal risks set out on the following pages.
The changing nature of our diverse business means that risks and opportunities are encountered on a continuing basis.
The identification of risk allows us to manage and mitigate threats to our strategic objectives and to better exploit risk related opportunities as they arise.
Four broad categories of risk are identified, and specific risks mapped against these categories: strategic: operational: financial: and, regulatory.
Risk mitigation For each area of risk, a mitigation plan is developed with a defined owner and summary of the additional controls required to manage and mitigate that risk.
Assessment of the effectiveness of this control environment is undertaken at divisional and group level, with the Audit Committee formally reviewing performance annually.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve the objectives and strategies of the groups risk management mitigation plans and it will only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Risk management monitoring and review As part of the on-going risk management review process, newly identified risks will feature on the risk register and some risks may be removed.
Following the 2013 review, new risks relating to our increasing reliance on technology based solutions and, as we continue to grow in size, scale and complexity, the risk of damage to our reputation have been separately identified.
It should be noted that there are other risks identified as part of our risk management process, but these do not have a material impact on our groups overall ability to achieve our business objectives.
These risks are managed via the existing risk management process.
To further encourage a culture of risk management within the business, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, regularly reviews the programme of risk management undertaken across the group to demonstrate the importance of the management and assessment of risk at a senior level, and to take executive ownership of mitigation improvements where required.
Internal control and assurance The board has established an appropriate system of governance throughout the group, with a framework of internal control based around the three lines of defence model.
The first line of defence is provided by line management, who are responsible for implementing and monitoring specific controls, the second line is provided by specific functions such as Finance, Human Resources and Risk who provide assurance on the effectiveness of these controls, and the third line is provided by internal audit with certain internal audit work outsourced to specialist providers including Grant Thornton LLP.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over the principal risks as identified in the group risk register and is developed by the Enterprise Risk Director who reports independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the internal audit function, including review and approval of the internal audit programme, reviewing the findings of the internal audit reports from the Enterprise Risk function and reviewing plans to address identified areas for improvement arising from the audits.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
The Audit Committee also receives an update from the Enterprise Risk Director and the Executive Directors on the operation of controls within the business.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38 Governance Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are those considered to be of most relevance and material importance to the board by virtue of their ability to adversely impact our people, our operations, our financial performance and our reputation.
Risks are grouped in four categories: strategic, financial, operational, and regulatory.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the group or which could become material in the future.
These risks may cause the groups results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
Strategic risks Material contract management, performance and retention Risk Mitigation Large scale complex integrated contracts such as our integrated Executive oversight and approval for all large scale strategic bids facilities management contract for Lloyds Banking Group are occurs and continues throughout the mobilisation and operational becoming increasingly important to the group.
In this regard such phases.
We have experienced operational, financial, bid and contracts have a material impact on the performance of the group mobilisation teams across our business to support our contracts.
and effective contract management along with sound financial and Formal contract reviews are undertaken on a regular basis, both operational performance is paramount.
In some areas of our business internally and with the client, to ensure effective performance and and contract portfolio we are also increasingly delivering financial management.
sophisticated technological solutions for our clients which carry We have specialist expertise to manage complex technological higher delivery and operational risk than contracts in some of our solutions, with third party support available where required.
The groups ability to manage and retain Board governs and reviews the investment in and support for the its large and complex contracts is critical both as a business development and deployment of technical solutions and these differentiator and in order to maintain its strong financial position.
programmes have governance and review structures in place to monitor their on-going performance.
Developing new territories and markets Risk Mitigation To ensure that the group continues its strong record of profitable Our strategic plan addresses new market and new territory growth it is important that we develop the management and systems development.
We have identified requirements for local and sector infrastructure to identify new growth opportunities and in particular, resource, and our management systems have been adjusted to enable the development of our business in new markets and reflect our new market exposures and growing international territories.
Failure to do this will limit the growth of our business presence.
Entry into new business areas is controlled and requires and may be detrimental to our ability to retain existing work.
Protecting our reputation Risk Mitigation We recognise that our reputation is critical for the successful Our governance framework including dedicated policies and achievement of our strategic objectives and the growth of our procedures, monitoring and review processes, communication business.
As such we continue to formally manage potential methods and training programmes, addresses specific areas that exposures and business risks which may, if crystallised, have a may give rise to reputational impact.
These management systems significant impact on our reputation.
Failure to manage our continue to adjust to reflect the changing nature of our business and reputation may lead to a loss in market confidence in our ability to the potential for reputational damage that may occur as a result of retain or undertake new client work and may affect our financial a significant incident occurring.
In particular, we are conscious that a significant health and safety incident involving our people, our clients or the general public, inappropriate behaviour including bribery, corrupt practices and fraud, and the failure to meet the requirements of legislation and regulation, could have a material detrimental impact on our corporate reputation.
Such incidents may lead to our inability to win or retain contracts, to financial penalties or fines, or to our inability to attract and retain high quality people to work at MITIE.
Uncertain market conditions and economic climate Risk Mitigation MITIEs principal macro-economic exposure is to the UK market.
On the downside, instability in our core UK market has caused We also have limited exposures to certain other European economic programme delays and cancellations as well as a change in the conditions and our international growth aspirations have been viability of certain markets.
However, this is countered on the positive challenged by the continuing uncertainty in the global economy side by the increasing attractiveness of our core outsourced services more generally.
as a means to add value to our clients and provide growth for MITIE.
It is important that our business model adapts to the on-going We continue to maintain a diverse portfolio of clients across a range economic conditions.
The continuing uncertain economic conditions of sectors and are strategically moving away from more cyclical have led to a change in clients spending in some areas that both markets.
We moved into the healthcare sector during the year positively and negatively affects our business.
Our business is exposed 2012 13 and away from our traditional engineering and contracting to a broad range of sectors which, whilst adding resilience to our markets in order to increase the groups resilience to economic portfolio, means we are sensitive to the economic conditions that changes.
Our focus on the development of our long term contract influence the trading performance of our clients.
This effect can be portfolio reduces the groups financial exposure to rapid changes in both positive and negative for MITIE, providing growth opportunities the economic environment.
and potential threats to client spend levels and credit worthiness which could negatively affect our financial performance.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 39 2.
Financial risks Financial strength and access to funding Risk Mitigation Our financial strength makes us an attractive partner to our clients We continue to monitor our financial performance very closely via and stakeholders, including our funding partners.
Should our financial our mature financial governance arrangements, with daily performance deteriorate, our ability to access funding on monitoring of bank balances, weekly cash flow forecasting and competitive terms could be impacted, causing a restriction in our regular financial performance and balance sheet reviews.
We ability to grow organically and through acquisition and an increase continue to maintain our strong banking, debt finance and equity in the cost of borrowing which could affect our financial relationships, with a diverse portfolio in place to minimise risk.
During the year we increased the diversity of our funding sources Our most significant area of expenditure is staff costs, which have to and have extended the term of our US private placement loan note be paid regularly and at specific times.
Our ability to do this is reliant borrowings, whilst fixing interest rates into the medium and longer up on the continued availability of funding and on our ability to term.
This has given certainty to aspects of our longer term costs of manage our cash flow.
It is critical to the success and continuity finance and has further reduced our exposure to changes in the UK of our business.
Reliance on material counterparties Risk Mitigation Our business activities are dependent on a number of significant We have strategically developed a diverse and robust counterparty counterparties such as insurers, banks, clients and suppliers.
Effective base, limiting the dependency of any one counterparty and hence and on-going relationships with our material counterparties will the impact of any potential failure.
A formal review of material underpin the groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
The counterparty risk is undertaken by the Board and at divisional and failure of a key subcontractor, supplier, financing or other partner business level.
could have a detrimental impact on the operational and financial effectiveness of our business.
Operational risks Significant health, safety or environmental incident Risk Mitigation The scale and scope of our business activities, if not appropriately The Board has formal oversight of the groups health, safety and managed, have the potential to cause harm to employees, third environmental performance, it being the first item on every Board parties and the environment.
Managing this area of risk and the agenda.
We continue to operate formal quality, health, safety and protection of our people and the environment is a major priority environmental management systems, certified to the ISO 9001, 14001 for the group.
Failure to do so could result in a significant incident and OHSAS 18001 standards.
Our employee engagement including death, leading to regulatory action, financial impact programme Work Safe Home Safe!
continues to focus on and damage to our reputation.
promoting core values and safe working behaviours.
Our training programmes in core competency areas continue to address specific workplace hazards and environmental management.
Our incident, accident and insurance experience is utilised to inform our operating practices, risk mitigation strategies and levels of insurance cover to minimise the incidence and impact of this risk.
System, process or control failure may impact our operational performance Risk Mitigation Our business uses increasingly sophisticated systems, with Our internal control effectiveness is reviewed formally and we interdependencies, to support our operational activities, operate regular audits and self-certification on the operation of key performance management and business support functions.
Our policies and procedures are regularly success of these systems, along with our programmes of internal reviewed to ensure they remain compliant with the law and with our control and our policies and procedures is critical for the operation, requirements for sound governance practices.
We formally test our governance and control of our business and will play a major role business critical systems to ensure effective recovery following a in driving future operational efficiency and business performance.
potential disaster scenario and have in place an assurance Our control systems are designed to identify changes to legislation programme to test the adequacy of our mitigation activity.
and regulation, and to ensure our operational and financial Our IT steering group oversees all IT-related governance procedures, including areas such as employee vetting and right to arrangements, implemented via our IT policy and procedure work legislative requirements that affect all our people, remain framework, and we continue to implement an information security relevant and up to date.
In particular, our failure to comply with management system aligned with recognised international legislative or regulatory changes or to maintain controls that affect standards.
high transaction volumes could expose the group to material penalties, financial misstatements or errors.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40 Governance Retention and attraction of skilled people who work to our group values Risk Mitigation We understand that our ability to deliver our strategic objectives We continue to implement our talent management programme to relies on retaining our talented employee base, developing future provide career development and have in place succession plans for talent internally and attracting the best new talent in the key management.
We also continue to successfully operate our marketplace.
We aim to operate as a responsible group and executive management training programme at Cranfield University.
recognise that the appropriate ethical behaviour of our people Our focus on training and competency at all levels of the business is critical to the success and desired impact that our business has.
continues to ensure we develop our people to enable them to Failure to develop our people, attract new talent or to ensure our manage the changing profile of our business.
people always work to our values could result in the inability to We have a clear set of group values that describe our expectations deliver our strategic objectives and would place a restriction on for the way our business should be managed and how our people our ability to grow, particularly into new market areas.
should behave and there is a stated zero tolerance for fraudulent behaviour, bribery or corruption, implemented through our ethical business practices policy.
Our employee engagement programme continues to drive recognition of our core values and we operate a confidential whistle-blowing line for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
We have provided bespoke anti-bribery and corruption training for our management teams.
Regulatory risk Exposure to legislative non-compliance Risk Mitigation We are strongly focused on ensuring legal compliance in all of our Our management systems provide a framework for assessing legal business areas.
Failure to do this could lead to enforcement action, compliance and proactively recognising the requirements of new fines, adverse publicity and therefore potential damage to our legislation.
We obtain specialist technical advice where required to reputation.
support in-house expertise, train our management teams who have operational responsibility for ensuring compliance and have an audit programme in place to assess specific compliance areas.
Engagement The Board is committed to an on-going, proactive dialogue with institutional and private investors, to further encourage engagement between the Company and its shareholders.
A full programme, led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the Halfyearly and Preliminary Results announcements.
Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the groups performance, and as such the Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major movements in shareholdings.
The Board is also regularly updated and is provided with investor feedback, broker updates and detailed analyst reports following the Half-year and Preliminary Results presentations.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is made aware of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Board encourages an on-going dialogue between the Directors and investors and as such all Directors with the exception of David Jenkins were present at the 2012 AGM and made themselves available for direct discussions with shareholders.
Latest group information, financial reports, corporate governance and sustainability matters, half-yearly and preliminary results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the MITIE website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the electronic methods by which the Company communicates with its shareholders, not only allowing the latest information on the group to be provided more efficiently but recognising the environmental benefits.
The Board encourages each shareholder to join the growing number of investors electing to receive their information electronically and further details on how to register are provided at the end of this report.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 41 Committees of the Board The Board has five formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and the Results Committee, the work of which are set out on the following pages.
The duties and responsibilities of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee and the Results Committee are set out in the terms of reference available on the Investor section of MITIEs website: at www.
Audit Committee The Company has an Audit Committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered as being appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
The chairman of the Committee, David Jenkins, continues to be deemed by the Board, as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through his qualifications and on-going positions.
During the financial year, the Committee met 3 times.
Meetings may, by invitation, be attended by the Companys external auditors, the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Enterprise Risk Director.
Director Audit Number of meetings held in year: 3 D S Jenkins Chairman 3 C S Gillies 2 of 2 L Hirst CBE 3 T K Morgan CBE 3 G J Potts 3 Committee responsibilities and activities During the year, the Audit Committee considered and reviewed matters relevant to discharging its responsibilities, including: generally monitoring the groups corporate reporting process and the statutory audit of the annual group accounts: review of the Half-yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts and recommendation for Board approval: accounting policies and key areas of judgement: review of the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: the quality of external audit services for the group and the re-appointment of the external auditor: the effectiveness of the external auditor including the appropriateness and skills of the audit team: compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy and maintenance of auditor independence: review of the groups consolidated risk register prior to its approval by the Board: approval of the group assurance framework and the internal audit plan: review of key internal audit reports and findings: and generally monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, audit and risk management systems and functions.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors and the Enterprise Risk Director without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Governance Assurance In line with Turnbull Guidance and C. 2.1 of the Code, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In recognition of the growing size, scale and complexity of the business, a review of the internal control assessment process was undertaken during the year.
As part of this review, a redesign of the internal control questionnaire was implemented, in order to deliver a more targeted and comprehensive internal control effectiveness assessment procedure.
We have used the feedback from the internal control assessment to improve and strengthen the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the group and to consider other procedural improvements.
These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure that control changes are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
Furthermore, the Enterprise Risk Director attends each Audit Committee meeting to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and the results of the internal audit process.
Features of the internal control and risk management systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial reporting include: a culture of good governance, integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility: group level policies and procedures to support the business by providing an operational internal control framework to work within: clearly defined responsibilities, delegated in accordance with the groups delegated authorities and authorisation registers: and, a group function with a team of specialist resources.
External auditor Each year the Audit Committee reviews auditor performance in respect of audit services, audit related services and non-audit services and is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
During the year ended 31 March 2012, MITIE tendered its external audit services and concluded that Deloitte LLP should be appointed as external auditor given the relevant experience of their London team in both the PLC environment and support services sector.
Through the reporting period, Deloitte LLP have implemented their proposed execution of the audit plan, introducing improvements including an enhanced top-down approach to reporting on the outcome of the audit along with the introduction of an interim review at the half year.
The Audit Committee has assessed and recommended to the Board the continued engagement of Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor and has recommended their re-appointment at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP has expressed willingness to continue in office as auditors and accordingly the Board is recommending their re-appointment as external auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures the external auditor remains independent and objective throughout the provision of their external audit services and when formulating their audit opinion.
In order to retain the flexibility of utilising the external auditors to provide non-audit services, the following criteria must also be met.
These are such that the external auditors do not: audit their own work: make management decisions for the group: create a conflict of interest: or find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 43 The Non-Audit Policy identifies the various types of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be undertaken along with the level of authority required before the external auditor can be considered to undertake such services.
Further, the policy is consistent with the Financial Reporting Councils ethical standards policy.
When considering the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit work, the following factors are taken into account: the quality of work provided by the external auditor: representations provided by the external auditors regarding their independence and objectivity, along with internal controls implemented by them when providing non-audit services: the level of external auditors understanding of the group: the nature of the work being performed: and the commercial and practical circumstances of particular types of work required.
Non-audit services provided to the group during the year included corporate finances services associated with the acquisition of Enara for reasons of commercial confidentiality and efficiency, taxation advice and compliance services.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
Nomination Committee The Company has a Nomination Committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
Director Nomination Number of meetings held in year: 3 R J Matthews Chairman 3 C S Gillies 2 of 2 L Hirst CBE 3 D S Jenkins 3 T K Morgan CBE 3 G J Potts 3 Committee responsibilities The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies and to consider the adequacy of the skills, experience and diversity represented on the Board.
It leads the process for appointments to the Board.
During the year, the Committee undertook the search for two additional Non-Executive Directors.
After careful consideration of the skills and experience required it recommended the appointment during the year of Crawford Gillies and, with effect from 1 June 2013, of Jack Boyer to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Crawford brings extensive strategic and international experience in addition to exposure within a larger, FTSE 100 environment.
Jack will bring broad, strategic and operational experience of entrepreneurial and international businesses to the Board.
A detailed and personally tailored induction programme is undertaken for NonExecutive Directors joining the Board in line with MITIEs standard procedure.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the composition and chairmanship of the Board and each of its Committees and determined that all Non-Executive Directors were independent in character and judgement.
Following the widening of the membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to include all the Non-Executive Directors in 2012, the committee continues to be satisfied that its current composition is appropriate having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 Governance Board diversity MITIE welcomes, as a general principle, the updated Code requirement to consider diversity at Board level and sees this as an opportunity to consider the appropriateness of their approach to managing the diversity of ideas and skills on the Board.
The Board believes that setting aspirational diversity targets could drive a practice that is not necessarily in the best interests of the organisation and that the issue of Board diversity should be tackled in a manner that considers all areas of the diversity agenda such as skills and experience, as well as gender, race, disability or other aspects of difference.
Diversity of candidates at Board level has to be balanced against the required skills and experience and should be a consideration in any recruitment, succession planning and talent management process.
During the year, the groups Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy was updated to encourage diversity within the board room and within the group, and the Board introduced an annual review of the broader talent pipeline within the group.
The Board is keen to ensure that all aspects of diversity are considered in the promotion, retention and development of the talent pipeline throughout the group as well as at Board level, and a suite of diversity policies and procedures have been cascaded and embedded throughout the group.
Further details of the diversity of MITIEs people can be found in the sustainability report which is available on the companys website at www.
Board composition Board tenure Executive Female 67% 01 years 1 Male 33% 23 years 2 Non-executive Female 0% 46 years 1 Male 100% 79 years 5 Remuneration Committee Information about the structure and processes for the Remuneration Committee is included on page 45 within the Remuneration report.
Investment Committee The Investment Committee strengthens the groups governance framework and facilitates the internal approvals process by approving matters as delegated by the Board and referring recommendations for Board approval.
The Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as chairman, and Group Finance Director, met 7 times during the year and considered matters such as major bids and contracts, acquisitions, disposals, capital expenditure and MITIE Model investments.
Results Committee The Results Committee assists the Board in approving matters such as half-yearly and preliminary results announcements, other routine, non-material announcements, dividend payments and shareholder communications.
The Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, as chairman, and Group Finance Director, met twice during the year.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
