GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee Report Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation The Nomination Committee, having followed the procedure to the financial year ended 31 December 2013. outlined above for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, recommended to the Board during the year the appointment of Composition of the Nomination Committee Sally James and Robin Klein as additional Independent NonThe Nomination Committee comprises five of the Non-Executive Executive Directors, the appointment of Matthew Price as an Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Executive Director to replace Paul Doughty and, subsequent to the Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Sally James.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown will year end, the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown as Chairman succeed Gerald Corbett as Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the Company to replace Gerald Corbett.
In connection with these when Bruce becomes Chairman of the Company on 23 April 2014. appointments, the Company used Russell Reynolds as the external Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set search firm.
Russell Reynolds has no other connection with out on pages 22 and 23. the Company.
Operation of the Nomination Committee At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, The Nomination Committee met on six occasions during the year.
the Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are Company Secretary may attend meetings of the Nomination set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 29.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committees duties include: Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge independence of the Board.
it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Where necessary, considering and recommending to the Board The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
com and are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Boardroom diversity The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing The Boards Statement on Diversity is as follows: suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search firm.
com Group PLC welcomed the publication in February 2011 of the Davies Review on Women on Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have Boards.
com Group PLC is committed to enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of ensuring that any Board vacancies arising are filled by the most skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
qualified candidates and recognises the value and importance of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable become available, the Company will remain focused on ensuring candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will that a diverse range of candidates are considered whilst ensuring make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making that appointments continue to be based on merit, measured the final decision.
against objective criteria and the skills and experience the individual offers.
The Board has targeted a minimum female representation When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the on the Board of 25% by 2016.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, structure and composition of the Board including Board Gerald Corbett diversity, and reviewed the succession plans for the Board.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 3 March 2014 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35
