GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report Rob Rowley Chairman of the AuditCommittee The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the Operation of the Audit Committee financial year ended 31 December 2013.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings is set out in the Composition of the Audit Committee Corporate Governance Report on page 29.
The Audit Committee comprises five of the Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley Chairman, Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms, The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Sally James.
Rob Rowley, Michael Secretary, together with appropriate members of the management Wemms, Bruce Carnegie-Brown and Sally James are considered by team with responsibility for risk and internal control, and the the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by external auditor, will normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Board to be independent on appointment.
Bruce Carnegiethe Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditor is Brown will cease to be a member of the Audit Committee when he regularly invited by the Audit Committee to advise them of any becomes Chairman of the Company on 23 April 2014.
Biographies matters which they consider should be brought to the Audit of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 22 Committees attention without the Executive Directors present.
Rob Rowley is a qualified accountant and was formerly The external auditor may also request a meeting with the Audit finance director of Reuters plc and chairman of the audit Committee if they consider it necessary.
He is currently chairman of the audit committee at Taylor Wimpey plc.
The Board is satisfied that Rob The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
Rowley has recent and relevant financial experience.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent Terms of reference professional advice at the Companys expense.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters www.
com and are available in hard copy The Committee is responsible for reviewing the appropriateness form on application to the Company Secretary.
These include: of the Groups half-year reporting and annual financial statements.
Monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements of the It does this by considering, amongst other things, the accounting Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys policies and practices adopted by the Group: the correct application financial performance and any significant issues and of applicable financial reporting standards and compliance with judgements contained therein.
broader governance reporting requirements: the approach taken Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material by management to report the key judgemental areas of reporting financial reporting judgements contained in them.
and the comments of the external auditor on managements Advising the Board on whether the Committee believes this chosen approach.
Annual Report and the Financial Statements contained within it, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable During the year the Committee considered key accounting issues, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to matters and judgements in relation to the Groups Financial assess the Groups strategy, business activities and financial Statements and disclosures relating to: performance.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence Contingent Remuneration and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking The Group acquired the business and assets of into consideration relevant UK professional regulatory MoneySavingExpert.
com and a sole trader business from requirements.
As described more fully in note 3 Developing and implementing a policy on the level and amount to the Groups Financial Statements on pages 59 and 60, the of external auditor non-audit services.
remuneration is contingent upon various non-financial Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the performance criteria together with a discretionary element and the external auditor and the remuneration and terms of continuing employment for a period of three years of Martin Lewis.
engagement of the external auditor.
The judgement involved in estimating the benefit payable relates Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and to several aspects of MoneySavingExpert.
The Committee has reviewed the accounting valuations of the Reviewing the scope, activities and results of the Groups contingent remuneration and, in light of the performance to date internal audit function.
and anticipated future performance reported by management, Reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying agreed that the amount recorded in the Consolidated Statement out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the of Comprehensive Income and the Consolidated Statement of satisfactory operation of the Committee.
In addition, since this is an area Reporting to the board how it has discharged its responsibilities.
of significant audit risk, the Committee also received reporting from KPMG, detailing their views on the judgements which management have made.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32 GOVERNANCE Revenue External Auditor The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from success-based The external auditor attends all meetings of the Committee.
It is the commercial deals which compensate the Group for each product responsibility of the Committee to provide oversight of the external sold by a provider to a customer referred to it by the Group.
The audit process and assess the effectiveness, objectivity and Group recognises this revenue at the point at which a customer independence of the external auditor.
leaves one of the Groups websites, and clicks through to a provider site.
The Audit Committee reviewed the following in order to provide oversight of the external audit process: Management operates a number of key controls in relation to the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope the recording of revenue.
A completeness check is performed by of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement reconciling all click activity on the website and ensuring that an letter for the forthcoming year: invoice has been raised, or revenue has been accrued, where the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: appropriate.
A review is performed to compare accrued revenue the external auditors fee proposal: at the end of the previous month and actual revenue invoiced the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and during the following month, with significant differences their resolution: investigated to provide evidence that revenues are correctly stated.
key accounting and audit judgements and estimates: In addition a program of revenue assurance is operated by the the levels of errors identified during the audit: and Groups internal audit function.
This helps provide assurance that recommendations made by the external auditor in their revenues are correctly stated by reviewing provider systems and management letters and the adequacy of managements controls to ensure that sales made by providers resulting from response.
referrals made by the Group have been correctly identified and allocated in the provider systems.
In addition management The Audit Committee reviewed the independence of the auditor regularly reviews the quantum and aging of any accrued revenue having regards to: balances.
a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts An assessment of the Groups information system which records of interest: and the clicks, together with the reconciliation of revenue to cash the extent and nature of non-audit services provided by the receipts, therefore form a key part of the audit.
The results of external auditor.
KPMGs testing are included in the audit report prepared for the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures on Impairment testing of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, in accordance As more fully described on pages 66 to 68 of the Groups Financial with professional and regulatory requirements.
These policies are Statements the Group holds goodwill and intangible asset balances kept under review to meet the objective of ensuring that the Group arising from the acquisition of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge Group Limited by the Company immediately preceding its listing and experience of its auditor whilst also ensuring that the auditor on the London Stock Exchange, and the acquisition of maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
com and a sole trader business from Martin Consequently, any non-audit work to be undertaken by the auditor Lewis by a number of Group companies in September 2012. in excess of 50,000 is required to be authorised by the Chairman The judgments in relation to goodwill and intangible asset of the Audit Committee and the Chief Financial Officer prior to its impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the commencement.
Individual assignments of less than 50,000 are calculation of the value in use, primarily the achievability of the approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
The aggregate expenditure forecast growth of the related businesses and the risks or discount with the external auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Committee addressed these matters through examining reports received from management outlining the basis During the year the value of non-audit services provided by KPMG for the key assumptions used and was comfortable with amounted to 0.2m 2012: 0.8m.
Non-audit services amounted to managements justification.
The Committee gains comfort that 130% of the value of the audit.
A significant proportion of non-audit business plans have received Board approval.
This is also a services relates to the following: significant risk area for the audit, and therefore KPMG provide to Reviewing the Groups half year reporting: the Committee their comments on the approach taken by The provision of tax compliance services in relation to both management.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the direct and indirect taxation: Committee critically reviewed the analysis performed on goodwill The provision of advice in relation to the preparation and and intangible assets and agreed that the projected future cash submission of claims for Research and Development R&D flows from these businesses supports their carrying value.
Relief: and The provision of regulatory advice in relation to documentation UK Corporate Governance Codes and control.
The Board requested and the Audit Committee has advised that it believes that the Annual Report and the Financial Statements, taken The assurance provided by the Group auditor on the items above as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the is considered by the Group as strictly necessary in the interests of information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the Group.
The level of non-audit services offered reflects the performance, business model and strategy.
auditors knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Group has also continued with the appointment of other accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services to the Group in connection with tax and regulatory advice and anticipates that this will continue in 2014.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence and regulatory A rolling twelve month internal audit plan is reviewed and approved advice is permitted with the Committees prior approval in line with by the Committee at each meeting, and defines the scope of the the approval limits set out above.
The provision of internal audit work which the internal audit function will undertake.
The results of services, valuation work and any other activity that could result in this work are reported to the Committee at each meeting, and will the external auditor reviewing and relying on its own work and typically include an update against the audit plan, results from conclusions is prohibited.
KPMG was not engaged during the year audits performed since the last meeting including any to provide any services which may have given rise to a conflict unsatisfactory audit findings and related action plans, and progress of interest.
against findings from previous audits.
The Audit Committee considers the effectiveness of the external In addition the Committee meets with the head of internal audit audit process on an annual basis, reporting its findings to the Board throughout the year as necessary.
as part of its recommendation.
This process is completed through completion of a detailed questionnaire which includes Compliance consideration of the audit partner, the approach, communication, The Group has a compliance function which reviews regulatory independence, objectivity, and reporting.
This is completed by matters in relation to the various bodies that regulate a number members of the Committee and senior members of the finance of the areas that the Group operates in.
These include the Financial team who regularly interact with the external auditor.
The results of Conduct Authority FCA, the Office of Fair Trading OFT, the the questionnaire are reported to and discussed by the Committee.
Information Commissioners Office and the Office of Gas and It also assessed the cost effectiveness and value for money aspect Electricity Markets OFGEM which operates a voluntary code of the audit.
relating to energy price comparison that the Group subscribes to.
The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external In April 2014 those areas of the business currently under the auditor after each committee meeting to review key issues within regulatory regime of the OFT, namely unsecured lending including their sphere of interest and responsibility.
credit cards and personal loans, will come under the regulatory, control of the FCA, in addition to those areas, namely the Groups KPMG have acted as the auditor to the company since 2004. insurance businesses, that are already regulated by the FCA.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years to ensure independence.
The Committee considered the length of KPMGs An annual compliance plan is reviewed and approved by the tenure and the results of the detailed questionnaire when Committee and defines the scope of the work that the compliance assessing their continued effectiveness, independence and team will undertake.
The results of the work are reported to the re-appointment.
The Committee continues to consider KPMG to be Committee at each meeting and will typically include an update independent and when considering the most suitable timing for a against the compliance plan and the results of the work performed future audit tender, took account of FRC guidance concerning the since the last meeting.
alignment of the tender date with the rotation of the audit partner and the report from the Competition Commission, which is The Group recognises that regulation in general, and in particular expected to result in mandatory tendering at least every ten years.
the regulatory regime imposed by the FCA, will become an increasing feature of the price comparison market.
The Group has The Committee continues to remain satisfied with the work of invested, and will continue to invest, in additional skills and KPMG and that they continue to remain independent and objective.
resources in this area in 2014.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that a resolution is put to shareholders recommending their Risk Committee reappointment together with their terms of engagement and The Group has established a separate risk function in 2014 headed remuneration at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
by the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
A separate Risk Committee will be This will continue to be assessed on an annual basis.
established in 2014 to be chaired by Sally James.
It will operate separately but alongside the Audit Committee.
The principle Internal Control responsibilities of the Risk Committee will include: The Audit Committee monitors and reviews each year the Advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of tolerance, strategy and culture: internal control and risk management.
Overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy: The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, Reviewing and approving the Groups risk policies: and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and Keeping under review the Groups overall risk assessment risk management, including financial, operational and compliance processes: controls during the year.
In addition to this review, the external Reviewing the Groups capability to identify and manage new auditor provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive reports types of risk: and of the results of their controls testing as part of the external audit.
Reviewing reports from management on the effectiveness of On a half yearly basis, the Audit Committee also reviews the key the internal control and risk management systems.
risks facing the Group and the actions being taken by management to mitigate and manage them.
Audit and Risk Committee Effectiveness The Board, as part of its general review of its overall effectiveness, Internal Audit concluded that the Audit Committee was working effectively.
The Group has an internal audit function which reviews financial, operational and regulatory matters.
The Group has continued to This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: invest in this area during 2013 and will continue to do so in 2014 recognising that regulation in particular, as price comparison continues to become an ever more important part of the distribution chain of financial services, will become more important.
Rob Rowley The Group is committed to fully meeting its regulatory obligations.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 March 2014 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34
