GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report Darren Drabble Company Secretary maximum of up to three months notice within that period and also The Board of Directors Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Group subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to PLC Company is committed to high standards of corporate the removal of a Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, governance and supports the principles laid down in The UK including the Chairman, currently holds a letter of appointment Corporate Governance Codes published in June 2010 and reflecting this.
September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council Codes.
This Corporate Governance Report describes how the principles The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent on of the Codes are applied by the Company and reports on the appointment as Chairman and considers Michael Wemms, Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
Rob Rowley, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Sally James and Robin Klein to be independent, being independent in character and judgement Compliance and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to The Board considers that the Company has complied with the affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board does provisions of the Codes throughout the year ended 31 December not consider Simon Nixon to be independent.
2013 and to the date of this report except as set out below.
Conflicts of interest Board of Directors The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 The Board currently has ten members, comprising the Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to Non-Executive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, five Independent allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Bruce may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when Carnegie-Brown, Sally James and Robin Klein, one nongiving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to authorise Independent Non-Executive Director, Simon Nixon Deputy a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the Chairman, and three Executive Directors, Peter Plumb Chief conflicted Directors voting or without their votes being counted.
Executive Officer, Paul Doughty and Graham Donoghue.
In making such a decision, the Directors must act in a way they Michael Wemms has been designated as the Senior Independent consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success Non-Executive Director.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2014, The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate Gerald Corbett will step down as Chairman and as a Non-Executive authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Director of the Company, and he will be succeeded by Bruce Director or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review Carnegie-Brown as Chairman.
Paul Doughty will also step down as of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
During the year, this an Executive Director at the Annual General Meeting on 23 April procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
2014 and he will be succeeded by Matthew Price who will be appointed an Executive Director on 1 April 2014.
Relationship Agreement The single largest shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in each The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship financial year including a two day strategy conference.
To enable agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship the Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the between them Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year without capable of carrying on its business independently of Simon Nixon, the Executive Directors present.
and that transactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote arms length and on normal commercial terms.
sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Board are set out on pages 22 and 23 including details of the Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number significant commitments of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for as that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the to carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Davies as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the Review as part of a wider diversity discussion and has endorsed ordinary shares of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors a Board Diversity Statement.
The Board supports the aims, for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the objectives and recommendations of the Davies Report and in line ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will with the Codes will continue to make Board appointments on merit, terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of of the Company.
diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be Independence Non-Executive Directors observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed by The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and Simon Nixon to deal with potential conflicts of interest and the varied commercial experience to Board and Committee provision of confidential information.
The practice of the Company is to appoint NonAs at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, subject to a Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 GOVERNANCE Division of responsibilities The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the same individual, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance and meets regularly to review the operation and performance of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
These include the Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: acquisitions and disposals: and other major investments and capital projects.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and approval each year by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
At least one of the Boards regular meetings each year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the Groups strategic direction.
Board Committees The Board has four principal Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
They are also available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 32 to 48.
The Risk Committee was established by the Board in February 2014 and will meet for the first time in April 2014.
The Directors who serve on each of the Committees are set out below: Committee Chair Members Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Sally James Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley, Bruce Carnegie-Brown, Sally James Remuneration Bruce Carnegie-Brown Gerald Corbett, Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms, Sally James, Robin Klein Risk Sally James Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms With effect from the AGM on 23 April 2014, Bruce Carnegie-Brown will chair the Nomination Committee in place of Gerald Corbett who will step down as a Director, and Bruce Carnegie-Brown will cease to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Bruce will continue to chair the Remuneration Committee until a new Independent Non-Executive Director is appointed.
It is anticipated that a new Independent Non-Executive Director will be appointed during 2014 and will chair the Remuneration Committee in place of Bruce.
Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Peter Plumb 9 Paul Doughty 9 Graham Donoghue 9 Non-Executive Directors Gerald Corbett 9 4 6 6 Simon Nixon 8 Michael Wemms 9 4 6 6 Rob Rowley 9 4 6 6 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 4 6 6 Sally James appointed 11 April 2013 5 3 4 3 Robin Klein appointed 21 June 2013 3 2 Total number of scheduled meetings held 9 4 6 6 The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chair of the respective Committee.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report continued Directors Shareholder relations The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good appointed by the Board must retire and submit themselves for communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regularly following their appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association meet with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them further require that all Directors must retire and submit themselves informed of significant developments and to develop an for re-election at least every three years.
In accordance with the understanding of their views which are discussed with the Board.
Codes, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for covering the full year and half year results and the Company seeks re-election.
to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the Companys governance policies and procedures.
The Company The Company provides Directors and officers insurance cover Secretary generally deals with questions from individual for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the shareholders.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary The results and results presentations, together with all information to the extent permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
reported to the market via the regulatory information service, press releases and other shareholder information, are published Board evaluation on the investor relations section of the Groups website at The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, www.
com to be viewed and accessed its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken during by all shareholders.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael Wemms, appraisal questionnaire used in connection with the process was is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Codes, through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer covering both Board and Committee performance.
The Board or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such considered that an internally run exercise was most appropriate contact is inappropriate.
in the current year but agreed annually to give consideration to whether an externally facilitated evaluation may be appropriate.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the In 2014, it is anticipated that an externally facilitated evaluation forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairs of the Audit, will likely take place.
Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees will be available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and development contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more areas and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to operating effectively.
Individual performance was also appraised, raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of based on one-to-one interviews with the Chairman, or in the case the Company.
of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director following consultation with each of the other Directors.
The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual General Development Meeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution will be published The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for on the Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and will preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly be announced via the regulatory information service.
appointed Directors, including business related presentations by senior management below Board level, as well as guidance on their Internal control and risk management duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Every Director has access to appropriate training as required and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The following their appointment and is encouraged to develop their system of internal control is designed to manage rather than understanding of the Group.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Information material misstatement or loss.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in a timely manner in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
This The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk normally includes a detailed report on current trading and management are: comprehensive papers on matters where the Board or Committee A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Specific process, requiring Board approval, against which the Groups business related presentations are given by senior management actual performance and any significant variances are regularly below Board level when appropriate.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval to The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that organisational, compliance and capital investment issues.
Board procedures are followed and providing advice to the Board on An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of corporate governance.
Both the appointment and removal of the responsibility and delegation of authority.
Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Regular reviews of the key risks facing the Group to ensure key risks are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional An annual two day strategy conference to discuss and approve advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the any Director during the year.
Directors have the right to require that risks to achieving them.
any concerns they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board An internal audit and compliance function providing assurance or Committee minutes.
over key risks, processes and controls.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 GOVERNANCE In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Reports from the external auditor in relation to the Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Reports from the internal and external auditors in relation to the system of internal control and the reviews by the internal and external auditors of that system.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management during the year.
The Board considers that in the context of the control environment described above, the Groups system of internal control and risk management is effective and satisfactory.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in the Directors Report on pages 24 and 25.
Compliance with the Codes The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Codes except as follows: B.
1.2 Until the appointment of Robin Klein as an Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, did not comprise Independent NonExecutive Directors.
With effect from June 2013, the Company complied with the Code provision B.
The Board has commenced a process to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director which it expects to conclude during 2014.
6.2 An externally facilitated Board evaluation has not been undertaken in the previous three years.
Given the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown as the new Chairman of the Company, it is anticipated that an externally facilitated Board evaluation will likely be performed in 2014.
C. 3.1 During the year, Gerald Corbett was a member of the Audit Committee.
Upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 23 April 2014, Bruce Carnegie-Brown will cease to be a member of the Audit Committee.
E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with them.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Darren Drabble Company Secretary 3 March 2014 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
