DIrECTorS rEporT 57 rEporT oF ThE noMInaTIon CoMMITTEE Chairmans introduction ThE MaIn roLE oF ThE noMInaTIon having the right balance of skills and experience on the CoMMITTEE IS To LEaD ThE proCESS Board is fundamental to the long-term success of the Company.
refreshing the Board has been the Committees For BoarD appoInTMEnTS anD To MaKE key area of focus during the year, leading to the recruitment rECoMMEnDaTIonS To ThE BoarD on of three non-executive Directors.
appointments are made ThE appoInTMEnT oF nEW DIrECTorS.
on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, including gender.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board which is described in more detail below.
Andrew Shilston Committee Chairman Meetings The Committee met three times during 2013. information and support The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
nomination Committee terms of reference The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and updated to reflect the changes introduced by the September 2012 version of the Code.
The terms of reference are available to view on the groups website.
Andrew ShilSton CoMMITTEE ChaIrMan Main areas of work during 2013 The nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership needs of the group.
The work CoMMITTEE MEMBErS of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in respect of 2013 included: Led the search for new non-executive Directors, Andrew Shilston Chairman resulting in the selection and recommended Martin flower appointment of andrew reynolds Smith in May 2013 Andrew given and rob rowley and Douglas Caster in February 2014.
Simon heale reviewed the composition of the Board and its victoire fide Margerie Committees and succession planning.
Andrew reynolds Smith Conducted a rigorous review of the continued Mark robertshaw appointment of andrew given, non-executive Director, who, by the time of the 2014 agM, will have served Joined the Committee on his appointment as a Director on 10 May 2013. for six years since first election by shareholders.
Considered the reappointment of the non-executive a majority of members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors at the conclusion of their specified time in Directors.
office and Directors annual re-election at the 2014 agM.
reviewed, for recommendation to the Board, a policy on diversity.
finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 58 DIrECTorS rEporT rEporT oF ThE noMInaTIon CoMMITTEE continued Appointments to the board board diversity policy The Board discussed the groups approach to talent management and The Board firmly believes in the value of diversity of perspective, succession planning at senior levels within the business during December including background, nationality, experience, and gender, at all 2013.
Succession planning for appointments to the Board and for senior levels of the Company as well as on the Board.
as is not unusual management will be an area of focus for the Committee in 2014. in engineering or manufacturing businesses, diversity in gender is the hardest to achieve.
The process for appointing andrew reynolds Smith, Douglas Caster and rob rowley is described below: It is very gratifying, however, to see that at the graduate recruitment Following consideration of a number of leading firms, the level the group is now having great success in attracting good Committee appointed Egon Zehnder as external search agent.
candidates of both sexes and many nationalities.
42% of the In line with the Code, the Committee established that 2013 graduate intake were female.
at the senior level, 5% of Egon Zehnder has no other connection with the Company.
senior managers and one of the Board Directors are female.
In the light of its discussions on the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board, the Committee considered new appointments to the Board are made on merit, with a and formulated a candidate specification for the roles.
focus on international and industrial experience, but diversity of The external search agent produced long lists of candidates perspective and the mix of skills around the Board table are also for the roles.
taken into account when selecting potential candidates.
During the Interviews were held with the short-listed candidates and selection process for new non-executive Directors, the Committee all members of the nomination Committee participated has, and will, continue to use a search agent who has signed up in interviews with the preferred candidates.
to the voluntary code of conduct which ensures that diversity is The Committee selected its preferred candidates and considered when developing a candidate pool.
The brief to the recommended their appointment to the Board.
search agent is to put forward a long list of candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure that the best candidate is selected.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
non-executive Directors, including the When monitoring the development of leadership and considering Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time the succession planning for executive management, the Board will to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant take into account the need for talented leaders who will have the commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an skills needed to lead a global company with a growing presence indication of the time involved.
The Board is informed of any subsequent in the emerging economic giants of the future.
changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are taken.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include The Board will continue to monitor whether it is taking diversity a notice period.
into account when planning executive succession and appointing new Board members and the Board effectiveness evaluation process addresses diversity.
The Board has discussed whether a quota for female Directors should be introduced by a certain date, but feels this is unrealistic given the current gender composition of senior executives and the competition for female non-executive Directors.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS
