48 DIrECTorS rEporT CorporaTE goVErnanCE ChaIrManS LETTEr To SharEhoLDErS dear Shareholder It is my pleasure to address you following my first full year as Chairman.
I comment on some of the significant governance issues that have arisen during the year below: Stewardship of the group during the transition to the new regional one Morgan structure, ensuring the benefits of the new organisational structure were secured, has been one of the Boards key responsibilities during 2013.
To this end, the Board has received reports at each meeting specifically on the progress of the restructuring as well as reports from andrew hosty in his new role as Chief operating officer.
The process to recruit new non-executive Directors continued and I am pleased to recommend andrew reynolds Smith, appointed at the conclusion of the 2013 annual general Meeting agM, as well as Douglas Caster and rob rowley, both appointed in February 2014, for election at the 2014 agM.
Inducting the new non-executive Directors and working on the Board dynamic will be one of my priorities for 2014.
The Boards programme of work in 2013 was in part driven by the conclusions drawn from the 2012 Board evaluation process.
The performance evaluation process enables the Board to adapt to changing circumstances and to move forward to ensure it is effective.
Two areas where it was agreed that greater focus was needed were the groups approach to risk management, and getting to know key business leaders.
The way the Board implemented these recommendations is explained further below.
The recommendations from the 2013 Board performance review are set out later in this report.
one of the key areas of focus for the Board during 2013 has been to ensure the new approach to risk has been embedded.
The Board and the audit Committee have, between them, reviewed each individual group principal risk and have received reports at each meeting on the rollout of the new methodology for risk management.
I would also like to mention the Boards visits to different parts of the business during the year.
In June 2013, the Board visited the haldenwanger Technical Ceramics site at Waldkraiburg, germany.
The meeting in July 2013 was held at the Composites and Defence Systems site in Coventry, uK.
These visits were organised around scheduled Board meetings and incorporated a meeting with the local management team as well as a tour of the operations, which afforded the Board a good insight into the business.
Andrew ShilSton ChaIrMan Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 49 Statement of compliance with the uk Corporate Delegation of authority The Board has delegated responsibility for certain matters to three governance Code committees, namely the audit, nomination and remuneration Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company has been Committees.
The memberships, roles and activities of these committees in full compliance with the relevant provisions of the September 2012 are described in separate reports: the audit Committee report is version of the uK Corporate governance Code the Code which set out on pages 54 to 56: the nomination Committee report is set out applies to the 2013 financial year.
The Code is published by the Financial on pages 57 to 58: and the remuneration Committee report is set out reporting Council and is available on its website www.
The full terms of reference of the Board committees are available upon request and are also available on the groups website.
The main principles of the Code focus on Leadership, Effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with Shareholders.
This The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the group and statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles operational matters to the Chief Executive officer and the other of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Strategic report executive Directors the Chief Financial officer and the Chief operating and the Directors report on pages 8 to 45 and 46 to 84 respectively.
officer who, together with the group human resources Director and the Company Secretary, form the Executive Committee.
The biographies leadership of the members of the Executive Committee are set out on pages The role of the Board 46 to 47.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has The Board has delegated authority for certain other matters including met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the routine approvals to a general purposes Committee which meets Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its as required and at which a non-executive Director must be present.
dedicated strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to Board meetings be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and In 2013, the Board met formally nine times, of which eight meetings standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and were scheduled and one meeting was held by telephone.
Ethics policy, both of which are referred to on pages 23 to 25 of the Strategic report.
The october 2013 meeting included a dedicated session on group strategy.
Matters reserved There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board Attendance at meetings including setting the groups strategic aims and objectives, approving The attendance of each Director at Board and audit, remuneration significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or and nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
disposal of companies businesses, and treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be one meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the longer recorded in the Board minutes.
an appropriate Directors and officers term development of the group.
The Board reviewed and updated the liability insurance policy is in place.
schedule of matters during the year to ensure that it accurately reflected the work of the Board and the current version is available to view on the groups website.
The Board also reviewed the limitations of authority in the group following the transition to the one Morgan structure.
Board audit remuneration nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended andrew Shilston 9 9 5 5 3 3 Mark robertshaw 9 9 3 3 Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 andrew hosty 9 9 Victoire fide Margerie 9 9 5 5 5 5 3 3 Martin Flower 9 9 5 5 5 5 3 3 andrew given 9 9 5 5 5 5 3 3 Simon heale 9 9 5 5 5 5 3 3 andrew reynolds Smith 6 6 4 3 2 2 1 1 Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
appointed to the Board on 10 May 2013.
In relation to the Board and audit Committee meetings in october 2013, andrew reynolds Smith attended the Board session on strategy only due to a prior commitment with gKn plc.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 50 DIrECTorS rEporT CorporaTE goVErnanCE continued Summary of the Boards work during the year: effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has served for two review of performance against the groups three-year objectives three-year terms is subject to rigorous review prior to reappointment review and approval of the design and implementation of the for a further three-year term.
groups new regional organisational model to create a unified and consistent one Morgan business, and monitoring of progress By the time of the 2014 agM, andrew given will have served two review of growth opportunities within the business against a three-year terms as a non-executive Director since first being elected to backdrop of low or no growth in the macro-economic environment the Board by shareholders.
The Chairman conducted a rigorous review review of strategic organic growth strategy and initiatives prior to authorising andrew given to seek re-election at the 2014 agM.
review of bolt-on merger and acquisition opportunities This review took into account the need to retain experience on the Board Strategic review of the electrical carbon business given the departure during 2014 of two long-serving non-executive review of technology and innovation within the business and Directors and the appointment of one new non-executive Director resulting business opportunities in 2013 and two new non-executive Directors in February 2014.
In-depth briefing from the presidents of the regions and their key management NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE review and approval of the groups half-year report, interim % management statements and preliminary announcement of the final results approval of 2014 budget approval of capital expenditure and review of capital investment projects including investment in the groups fibre business review of group and regional business plans review of the groups principal risks review of environmental and health and safety performance and plans including the behaviour-based safety programme to be implemented in 2014 Consideration of major shareholders views on the groups performance and prospects Serving first three-year term Consideration of detailed feedback on the responsible Business Serving second three-year term programme training sessions held in the regions Serving third three-year term review of senior management talent pipeline review of the results of the employee survey Briefing on cyber security.
Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
andrew given will become Senior Independent Director following Chairman and Chief executive officer Martin Flowers departure at the conclusion of the 2014 agM.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the year.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive of the Board including setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient Directors met without the Chairman present.
time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues, for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive challenge, facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive effectiveness Directors and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive Board balance and independence and non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible The size, structure and composition of the Board were reviewed for the management of the group, including the delivery of the groups during the year, taking into account succession planning and the business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing need to progressively refresh the membership of the Board.
the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation of the groups policies.
andrew reynolds Smith was appointed to the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 agM, on 10 May 2013.
We recently announced the Following the groups transition to the new regional organisational appointments of Douglas Caster and rob rowley to the Board as structure, the management of the groups operations is now the non-executive Directors in February 2014.
Further information on responsibility of the groups Chief operating officer supported the process used to appoint the new non-executive Directors is by the heads of each region.
included in the nomination Committee report on pages 57 to 58.
The Chairman as at 13 February 2014, the Board comprises andrew Shilston, on appointment as Chairman on 1 august 2012, andrew Shilston Chairman: Mark robertshaw, Chief Executive officer: Kevin Dangerfield, met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Chief Financial officer: andrew hosty, Chief operating officer, and five independent non-executive Directors, Victoire fide Margerie, Martin Flower, andrew given, Simon heale and andrew reynolds Non-executive Directors Smith.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, main commitments, are set out on pages 46 and 47. subject to annual re-election.
The independence, commitment and Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 51 BOARD BALANCE The Chairman considers the individual training and development % needs of each Director, taking into account environmental, social and governance matters.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review and facilitates the ongoing training and development of all Directors as necessary.
non-executive Directors have access to management and staff at all levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites.
In addition to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
Performance evaluation With the aim of improving effectiveness, the Board undertakes a formal Executive Directors annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees Independent non-executive Directors and individual Directors.
Chairman an externally facilitated performance evaluation was conducted in 2011 Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement and an internal evaluation was conducted in 2012.
The 2013 process of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, was also conducted internally.
The process was led by the Chairman should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board and carried out by the Company Secretary.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence The process for the evaluation of the Board as a whole and its and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any Committees was as follows: relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material Development of tailored questionnaires, completed by all Directors, support from the Company.
which took into account the output from the 2012 performance evaluation process, the current dynamic of the Board, the work of the Board during 2013 and its current areas of focus.
Commitment Formulation of a report summarising the results of the prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, the questionnaires which was presented to the Board for discussion.
Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm that they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to In consequence, a number of recommendations were agreed by the the Company.
Board as follows: There should be increased focus on executive succession planning Information and support and improving the current bench strength in the businesses as The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring well as developing future leaders.
the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information There should be continuing focus on Board succession planning to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally to ensure that in the medium term there is structured Board made available electronically five working days before each meeting.
non-executive Directors also receive updates and information between The Board should take account of diversity in planning Board formal Board meetings.
Further consideration should be given to providing information The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company to the Board in the most suitable format.
Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations alongside the Board and Committee evaluation, each Director are observed.
a procedure is in place to enable the Directors to completed an individual questionnaire which invited them to reflect seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense on their own performance and contribution to the Board.
The in connection with their duties as Directors.
questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman, with any development needs being discussed with individual Directors.
Induction and professional development new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining The recommendations made following the 2012 Board performance the Board.
a new Directors experience and background is taken into review were implemented during the year.
account in developing a tailored programme.
Following his appointment to the Board on 10 May 2013, andrew reynolds Smith received comprehensive briefings to supplement the information on the groups business provided during recruitment.
The briefing for andrew reynolds Smith included further information on the business and its products and markets, brokers reports on the group, the Companys corporate governance structure and processes and key group policies.
The induction programme for andrew reynolds Smith included meetings with executive management, briefings from functional heads on governance, responsible business, key risks, human resources and environment, health and safety, visits to a number of operational sites and meetings with regional and operational management.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 52 DIrECTorS rEporT CorporaTE goVErnanCE continued rECoMMEnDaTIonS FroM ThE 2012 BoarD pErForManCE rEVIEW anD aCTIonS IMpLEMEnTED DurIng 2013 recommendation from 2012 Action taken progress made during 2013 There should be continuing focus on both shortand mediumThere has been particular emphasis during the year on shortand term succession planning, with particular emphasis on matching medium-term succession planning and, in light of this, andrew the skills and experience of the Directors to the groups strategy.
reynolds Smith was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on 10 May 2013, and Douglas Caster and rob rowley were appointed to the Board as non-executive Directors in February 2014.
Medium-term succession planning will continue to be an area of focus for 2014.
The Board should simplify how the group and its strategy are Within the context of the transition to the one Morgan structure, presented to external stakeholders.
the Board has simplified how the group and its strategy are presented to external stakeholders.
Embedding the groups updated approach to risk should be The Board has closely monitored the groups updated approach closely monitored.
to risk as detailed on page 19.
More opportunities should be found for non-executive Directors More opportunities have been found for non-executive Directors to get to know key business leaders, particularly where they are to get to know key business leaders, particularly where they are based outside the uK.
In addition to site tours and presentations from the managers of the haldenwanger site in germany and the Composites and Defence Systems site in Coventry mentioned in the Chairmans introduction above, the presidents of the north american and asian regions have given in-depth presentations to the Board.
The Board also received presentations from the Chief Technical officer and from the head of the fibre business.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Accountability met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans Financial reporting performance during the year, taking into account the views of the In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that the executive Directors.
annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Conflicts of interest to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy as The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of required by the Code.
the Companies act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
accordingly the Directors are required to a summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order annual report and the financial statements is set out on pages 83 to 84 to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict: and and the going concern statement is set out in the Strategic report on 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise page 45. to an actual or potential conflict.
Business model and strategy The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any Details of the groups business model, how it is working to generate conflicts disclosed and authorisations given, at least annually.
Should an and sustain long-term value and details of the Boards strategy for actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether ensuring the group meets its objectives are set out in the Strategic to authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys articles of report on pages 8 to 45. association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 53 Internal control performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a and of the Executive Committee.
a comparison of forecast and sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons and the groups assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
against budget and the prior year.
regional management teams The groups system of internal control has been in place for the year also meet regularly to review performance.
In addition, regular under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
risk management The identification of major business risks is Through the audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material system of internal control accords with the Financial reporting Councils risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the audit guidance on the internal control requirements of the Code Turnbull.
Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, This review covered all material controls, including financial, operational treasury, pension, legal, social, environmental and ethical risks from and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The regional presidents cover risk issues at their Committee and Board receive regular risk management reports covering management meetings.
Details of the groups risk management the full range of risks faced by the group and together they ensure there system are set out in the risk management section on pages 19 to 22. are adequate systems in place and evaluate their effectiveness.
risk factors Morgans businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are The Directors believe that the groups system of internal financial therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance: that the as described above and in the Strategic report, the identification assets of the group are safeguarded: that transactions are authorised and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls These are further discussed in the risk management section would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or on pages 19 to 22. irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Internal audit The groups internal audit function reviews internal risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, control and risk management processes.
The audit Committee environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports complements the groups management structure.
The main features of accordingly.
actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed the groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential with management.
The Internal auditor has direct access to the risks to which the group is exposed are summarised as follows: Chairman of the audit Committee.
Control environment The groups management processes include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties with documented relations with shareholders policies and manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, During 2013, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended health and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a the annual and half-year results presentations and the groups Capital schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The groups Core Markets Day.
This provided the opportunity to meet institutional Values Statement, Ethics policy and other supporting policies and shareholders and other attendees and to further develop an procedures set out the groups commitment to the highest standards understanding of their views.
of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The groups responsible Business programme includes Following the announcement of the groups results and after other relevant training and reporting and is part of the control framework.
significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed The Ethics hotline is available to employees and others in this regard.
and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board The presidents of each region and other senior operational and is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder functional management make an annual statement of compliance meetings on a regular basis.
to the Board confirming that, for each of the businesses for which they are responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have the Companys website includes details of the London Stock Exchange been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other group policies and procedures.
Financial reporting risk management systems and internal controls are in place in relation to the groups financial reporting processes Constructive use of the AGM and the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include The agM is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records representative of the external auditor.
at the agM held in May 2013, the which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of Chief Executive officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded are also invited to ask questions during the meeting and have the as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior accordance with International Financial reporting Standards IFrS management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
as noted above, proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are representatives of the business are required to certify that their released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the groups reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
of the business and its results for the period.
The audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and Information on share capital and other matters internal controls.
The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on pages 82 to 83 in the other disclosures section.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report
