54 DIrECTorS rEporT rEporT oF ThE auDIT CoMMITTEE Chairmans introduction ThIS IS ThE FIrST DEDICaTED rEporT The main purpose of the audit Committee is to assist the oF ThE auDIT CoMMITTEE, gIVIng an Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
I would like to highlight oVErVIEW oF ITS rESponSIBILITIES anD a number of key areas of focus for the Committee in 2013, hoW IT DISChargED ThESE, TogEThEr as follows: WITh InForMaTIon on ITS MEMBErShIp During 2013, we continued to monitor our internal controls closely and received a series of presentations anD goVErnanCE.
from the regions on their internal controls.
The presentations were delivered by the Finance Director of the business, which gave the Committee the opportunity to ask questions face-to-face and gain a real insight into the internal control environment of each business.
Following the outcome of the 2012 Internal audit effectiveness review, in which resource was identified as an area for improvement, the Committee had oversight of the appointment of an additional Internal auditor during the year.
We also approved an extended remit for Internal audit to include review of certain aspects of the responsible Business programme, the risk management process and IT, especially major IT projects.
Throughout 2013, the Committee monitored how the groups new approach to risk management was working.
We received progress reports in person at each meeting from the responsible Business programme & risk Manager in relation to the embedding of the new risk management processes.
Between the audit Committee and the Board, during the course of the year we reviewed each individual key risk by receiving a report containing information on the risk, controls and the effectiveness of those controls Andrew given and any recommended actions.
CoMMITTEE ChaIrMan Following the transition to the one Morgan structure, the Committee has reviewed the groups reporting format.
We received advice from KpMg audit plc on the application of current accounting standards, as well as on the classification of restructuring costs and CoMMITTEE MEMBErS other accounting matters arising from the reorganisation.
The audit Committee has implemented the new provisions of the Code which applied to the 2013 Andrew given Chairman financial year for the first time.
an account of how we Martin flower addressed our responsibility for advising the Board Simon heale on whether, taken as a whole, the 2013 annual report victoire fide Margerie is fair, balanced and understandable, such that Andrew reynolds Smith shareholders can assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is set out below.
Joined the Committee on his appointment as a Director on 10 May 2013.
I am pleased to present the audit Committee report all members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors for 2013. and andrew given, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
Andrew given Committee Chairman Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS DIrECTorS rEporT 55 Meetings The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according The audit Committee met five times during the year.
at the end to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of of each meeting the non-executive Directors who are members of the Company, but did not do so during the year.
The head of Internal the Committee also meet the external auditor, the head of Internal audit has access to the Chairman of the Committee and regularly meets audit and the responsible Business programme & risk Manager without with the Committee without other executives present.
the executive Directors or other members of management present.
Between meetings the members of the audit Committee keep in Main areas of work in 2013 contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive officer, During 2013, the Committee: the Chief Financial officer, the external auditor and head of Internal reviewed the groups 2013 half-year and full-year statements audit as necessary.
reviewed the scope of the external audit, and confirmation of information and support the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
The Committee may request the attendance at meetings of any assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and all Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered aspects of the service provided by the external auditor.
Completed the review of the groups approach to risk management and an in-depth review of certain material risks including The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information anti-bribery anti-trust, IT security and financial misstatement fraud.
it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented reviewed the effectiveness of and received reports from by regular presentations made by the regional presidents and Finance management on the groups internal audit and risk management Directors on the internal control environment within their respective systems and updates to the groups governance, risk and regions.
Training and development information is made available to compliance plans.
the members of the audit Committee when appropriate.
reviewed the remit of the Internal audit function and agreed to extend the scope beyond internal financial controls to other areas including IT and areas of regulatory compliance.
Audit Committee terms of reference approved the work and plans for the Internal audit function and The audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the monitoring of progress against the plan.
the year and updated to reflect the changes to the uK Corporate reviewed the systems of internal controls of the regions.
governance Code introduced in September 2012.
They are available appraised the groups whistleblowing process and related on the groups website and are summarised below.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board reviewed material litigation, crisis management plans and controls with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the in relation to joint ventures.
financial statements of the group, preliminary announcements, Monitored the level of non-audit work of the auditor, which half-year reports and any formal announcements relating to the in 2013 included services amounting to 0.2 million, mainly groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial in connection with tax services.
reporting judgments contained in them.
reviewed the impact of the one Morgan structure on the reviewing accounting policies used by the group and their reporting structure.
consistent application across the group.
reviewing whether the group has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking into account the views of the external auditor.
reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk management systems.
reviewing and monitoring the groups whistleblowing arrangements and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval at the agM, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity.
reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant uK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2013 annuaL rEporT 2013 Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS finAnCiAl direCtorS StrAtegiC overview StAteMentS report report 56 DIrECTorS rEporT rEporT oF ThE auDIT CoMMITTEE continued public reporting Audit Committee and the external auditor as mentioned, the Committee, on behalf of the Board, considered the The audit Committee has received confirmation from KpMg audit plc Code requirement to make a statement on whether the annual report that its general procedures support the auditors independence and and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
after considering such approached this as follows: procedures the opinion of the audit Committee was that the auditors considered the questions which need to be answered in order to objectivity and independence were safeguarded despite the provision evaluate whether the annual report and accounts meets the fair, of non-audit services by KpMg audit plc.
reviewed the methodology used to construct the narrative sections To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, of the annual report.
the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of reviewed the disclosure judgments made by the authors of each non-audit services by the external auditor is in summary as follows: section and considered the balance of good and bad news in the Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external annual report.
auditor, including the review of their own work: they may not received confirmation from external advisers that all regulatory make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality requirements are satisfied.
of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position received confirmation of verification of content from the authors of advocate.
any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external asked the Board to confirm that the Business Model and Strategy auditor with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be narrative accord with the agreed Strategy and Business Model.
approved in advance by the Chairman of the audit Committee.
received confirmation from the Company Secretary and Chief projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance by the Financial officer that the narrative reports and financial statements audit Committee.
Work which includes multiple phases is treated as are consistent.
a single project for approval purposes.
reviewed an advance draft of the annual report and accounts prior The prior approval of the audit Committee is required for any to the financial year end.
non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
The significant areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2013 Financial statements, and how these were During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit addressed, were: work relative to the audit fee was 13% 2012: 14%.
goodwill impairment testing The judgments in relation to asset impairment largely relate to the determination of the cash-generating The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the unit Cgu, particularly following the one Morgan reorganisation effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external in early 2013, and the assumptions underlying the calculation of auditors performance and independence before determining whether the value in use of each Cgu, primarily the basis of the financial to undertake a formal review of the auditor including a re-tender projections used and the macro-economic assumptions underlying presentation or whether to put the groups audit work out to full the valuation process.
The Committee has addressed this through third-party tender.
receiving and analysing reports from the Chief Financial officer and the Director of Finance and KpMg audit plc, explaining the basis The external auditor has processes in place to safeguard their of the new Cgus and the basis of the financial assumptions used.
independence and has written to the Committee confirming that, provisions and contingent liabilities The level of provisioning for in their opinion, they are independent.
The group last changed its known and contingent liabilities, including those arising from trading, auditor in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external environmental issues and litigation, is an issue where management auditor, which included a re-tender presentation, during 2007.
The and third-party judgments are important.
These are addressed external auditor rotated the partner responsible for the groups audit through the Committee and the main Board discussing with work in 2008 and 2013. having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit various members of senior management the key judgments made, process and all aspects of the service provided by the auditor, and taking supported, where appropriate, with relevant external advice.
account of the assurance given by the auditor as to their independence, KpMg audit plc also reports regularly on all material provisions and the Committee recommended to the Board that the groups audit contingent liabilities.
work should not be put out to third-party tender during 2013 and Tax provisions accounting for current and deferred tax involves a will further review the situation during 2014. range of judgments.
The Committee and the main Board address these issues through reporting from the Chief Financial officer and the Director of group Tax, supported as necessary with external professional advice, including from KpMg audit plc.
The Committee reviewed the content of the annual report and accounts and advised the Board on whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
