Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 79 Overview Key Board activities in 2013 Commissioned an independent, externally facilitated I am pleased to present the 2013 corporate evaluation of the Board.
Sound corporate governance Reviewed and monitored the Groups operational is fundamental to our long-term success.
performance with particular focus on the management The Board and I remain committed to ensuring ofcosts.
that the structures and procedures in place across Reviewed the long-term supply of key inputs, including the Group are reective of the best principles water and electricity, across the Groups operations.
of good governance and continue to develop Reviewed Group performance against KPIs, including safety indicators, and approved the implementation of a new as Antofagasta grows.
During 2013, we integrated health and safety system.
commissioned our first independent externally Reviewed and monitored costs across the Group with facilitated evaluation of the Board, the Audit particular focus on the centralisation of certain and Risk Committee, and the Remuneration procurement processes, the reorganisation of the Groups organisational structure and the optimisation of the Groups and Talent Committee.
This was a useful exercise corporate structure.
and we are implementing recommendations raised Approved key steps in the Groups growth plans, including in the reports, including strengthening the Boards the resumption of the development of the Antucoya project, focus on strategic issues.
the commissioning of feasibility studies for the Los Pelambres Marginal Expansion and the Encuentro Oxides Jean-Paul Luksic projects, and investment in the optimisation of the Groups Chairman existing operations.
Approved the acquisition of 40% of the Alto Maipo hydroelectric project.
Approved the $650 million Antucoya project nancing.
Reviewed the Groups ongoing capital management and approved $887 million of dividends that were paid out to shareholders during 2013.
Appointed Andrnico Luksic to the Board.
80 Governance Corporate governance report Antofagasta plc Board and Committees Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Antofagasta plc Board The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code available on the Financial Reporting Council website sets out governance principles and provisions which applied to the Company during the 2013 financial year.
The Company is committed to a culture of good governance, as embodied in the Code, and reports here on the extent to which it has Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code Committee Committee and and Talent and explains the reasons for any non-compliance.
Pages 85 Pages 88 Stakeholder Committee to 88 and 89 Management Pages 90 The Company complied with the detailed provisions contained in the Committee to 100 Code throughout 2013 except as follows: Page 89 the Board did not have a separately identied Chief Executive and hence at Board level there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive provision A.
Diego Hernndez is the Chief Executive of Antofagasta Minerals the Groups mining division, which represents nearly 95% of Business Divisions earnings.
As such, he is invited to attend all Board meetings and is Divisional Boards responsible for the activities of the Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee.
The Board considers that its predominantly nonexecutive composition, combined with the delegation of significant Transport Mining Water responsibility for operational management to Diego Hernndez and the Executive Committee within the mining division and to the divisional General Managers within the transport and water divisions, achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of Mining Division power in its Executive Chairman: and Corporate Centre performance-related pay measures did not apply to Board members principle D1 and provision D. 1.1.
The Board considers Executive CEO and Business this appropriate given its predominantly non-executive composition Committee Vice-Presidents Development and the role of the only Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
Performance-related Committee remuneration applies to all of the executives within the Antofagasta Minerals Group, including the Executive Committee, as described inthe Remuneration report on page 99.
Mining Division Subsidiary Companies Boards Group governance structure The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
It is responsible for the leadership and strategic direction of the Group, and for oversight of the Groups performance, its risks and internal control systems.
The Board is assisted in the performance of its responsibilities by its four committees the Audit and Risk Committee, As noted on page 76, the Groups mining division is managed the Remuneration and Talent Committee, the Nomination Committee by the Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre, under the leadership and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
of Diego Hernndez, the Antofagasta Minerals CEO.
Members More details on the role of the Board and its committees are set out ofthe Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee are responsible inthefollowing pages.
for the executive management of those elements of the mining business which fall within the scope of their own divisions, and collectively for themanagement of the Antofagasta Minerals business.
The Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee comprises the Antofagasta Minerals CEO, nine Vice-Presidents, and the General Managers oftheGroupsoperating mines and the Antucoya project asset outonpages 76 to 78.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 81 The Executive Committee reviews significant matters in respect of The Board is responsible for: the mining division and approves capital expenditures by the mining providing leadership: operations and the corporate centre within designated authority levels, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: leads the annual budgeting and planning processes, monitors the performance of the mining operations and promotes the sharing of ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the best practices and implementation of policies across the operations.
Groupto meet its objectives: approving significant transactions and capital investments: As part of a reorganisation of the Groups organisational structure, there have been some changes to the composition and responsibilities reviewing the Groups performance: of the Executive Committee during 2013.
Most recently, the Legal approving the Groups annual budgets: and Corporate Affairs Vice-Presidency has been separated into reviewing the Groups capital management including approval two functions to more closely align the Executive Committees ofdividends: and responsibilities with the strategic objectives of the mining division andfurther improve the Groups management structure.
This change determining the nature and extent of the significant risks that the isdiscussed in more detail in the CEOs Statement on page 07.
Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
Within the mining division there is also a regular Operational Performance Review process whereby the individual mining operations During 2013 the Board: report their results to the Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre, providing a regular, formalised process for monitoring and control regularly reviewed performance against safety indicators oftheoperations by the corporate centre.
and recommended and approved the implementation A Business Development Committee, comprising the Groups ofanew integrated health and safety system across Chairman, the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and a number of the theGroups operations: Antofagasta Minerals Vice-Presidents, focuses on the mining divisions approved an antitrust protocol which now applies growth opportunities.
The Business Development Committee reviews acrossthe Group: potential growth opportunities both internal projects and potential transactions, approves transactions and project expenditures within oversaw the review of the Groups organisational designated authority levels, recommends transactions in excess of structure and optimisation of the corporate structure to those levels to the Board for approval and monitors ongoing projects.
further align these with the Groups strategic objectives: Given the core role that Antofagasta Minerals plays in the management approved the acquisition of 40% of the Alto Maipo of the mining operations and projects, and that the mining division represents the large majority of the Groups business, the Antofagasta Hydroelectric Project, enabling the Group to secure plc Directors also serve as Directors of Antofagasta Minerals.
There are theprovision of energy to Los Pelambres: also Boards for all of the Groups operations and the Antucoya project reviewed possible opportunities for capital investment as which consider matters not reserved for the Antofagasta Minerals or recommended by the Business Development Committee: Antofagasta plc Boards.
There are divisional Boards for the transport division Antofagasta approved key steps in the Groups growth plans by Railway Company plc and the water division Aguas fide Antofagasta approving the resumption of development of the S. A., which consider matters specic to those divisions that are Antucoya Project, additional expenditure on the feasibility not reserved for the main Antofagasta plc Board.
Jean-Paul Luksic, studies forthe browneld expansion at Los Pelambres Ramn Jara and Gonzalo Menndez are members of the Antofagasta and the Encuentro Oxides Project and additional plc Board and the Antofagasta Railway Company plc and Aguas fide expenditure tooptimise the Groups existing operations: Antofagasta S. A.
continued to review and monitor the Groups operational performance with particular focus on the management The role of the Board ofcosts and securing the long-term supply of key inputsincluding water and electricity across the The Board met nine times during 2013.
Groupsoperations: The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the approved the Groups 2014 annual budget: Group.
The Chairman encourages an open culture where healthy challenge and debate are encouraged within the Board.
He will always continued to review the Groups ongoing capital attempt to persuade the Board to act as a single team by obtaining management including approving dividends of $887 consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, million, which were paid to shareholders during 2013 and decisions may be taken by majority.
There is a schedule of matters approving the $650 million Antucoya project nancing: and specically reserved for the Board.
reviewed significant risks associated with achieving the Groups strategic objectives and approved expenditure and the implementation of resources to address these risks.
82 Governance Corporate governance report The Board has delegated responsibility for implementing the Groups The Group does not have a Board member who is designated as strategic and financial objectives to the senior management within the Chief Executive.
The Board believes that the Company is not at risk Group.
Due to the importance of the mining division within the Group, from a concentration of power by Jean-Paul Luksic having executive the Antofagasta Minerals CEO is invited to attend all Board meetings responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion, it has taken and is responsible for directing and managing the Antofagasta Minerals into consideration the strong presence of independent Non-Executive Executive Committee.
Directors on the Board, the structure of the four Board Committees designed to devolve away from the Chairman the responsibility and The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to perform control of certain key areas of Board responsibility and the delegation certain activities as set out in their terms of reference.
They are the of operational management to a divisional level.
Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration and Talent Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Senior Independent Director Management Committee.
The activities of these Committees are set out in further detail on pages 85 to 89 of this Corporate governance William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior report and pages 90 to 100 of the Remuneration report.
The terms Independent Director provides a sounding board for the Chairman, ofreference of these Committees are available on the Companys ifrequired.
Where necessary, the Senior Independent Director can act website at www.
as an intermediary between the Chairman and the other members of the Board.
He is also an additional point of contact for shareholders: heprovides a particular focus for shareholders on the Groups Board composition governance and strategy, and also gives shareholders a means of raising concerns other than with the Chairman or senior executives.
Since his appointment, William Hayes has met with a number of the Board balance Groups largest shareholders, allowing him to provide his perspective on the Groups governance and strategy, and to obtain their direct As at the date of this report the Board has ten Directors, comprising feedback on the Group.
Shareholders were invited to meet with an Executive Chairman and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The Board WilliamHayes again during 2013. considers six of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
The Board considers that this predominance of Non-Executive Directors is valuable, both in terms of providing a range of outside Independent Non-Executive Directors perspectives to the Group, and also in encouraging robust debate Of the nine Non-Executive Directors, six are considered by the Board with, and challenge of, the Groups executive management.
to be independent Gonzalo Menndez, Juan Claro, William Hayes, The Board is also satisfied that the balance of the Board limits the Tim Baker, Ollie Oliveira and Nelson Pizarro.
William Hayes, Tim Baker, scope for an individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Ollie Oliveira and Nelson Pizarro meet the independence criteria set Boards decision-making.
out in the Code and the Board is satisfied as to their independence.
The Board is satisfied that Gonzalo Menndez remains independent During 2013, Andrnico Luksic was appointed to the Board.
He brings in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on an extensive experience across a range of business sectors throughout the Board for more than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a Chile, Latin America and Europe.
Non-Executive Director of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled by the Luksic family and some of its subsidiaries.
This is Of the ten Directors, six are based in Chile, three are based in North because he does not receive any remuneration from the Group other America and one is based in the United Kingdom.
Biographies of each than in a non-executive capacity, and his position in the Quienco of the Directors as at the date of this report are shown on pages 74 and group is also solely as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers 75 and demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining industry as Gonzalo Menndezs length of service to be of considerable benefit to well as significant international business experience.
Their biographies the Board given his wealth of knowledge and experience of the Group, also provide details of their Board Committee memberships as well Latin America and the mining industry, and therefore proposes him asotherprincipal directorships and external roles.
Chairman The Board is also satisfied that Juan Claro remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that the ninth anniversary Jean-Paul Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time of his appointment to the Board will fall in May 2014, shortly before Executive Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that the Annual General Meeting.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board prevent him from devoting sufficient time to this role.
He is responsible has noted that Juan Claro does not receive any remuneration from for leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the Group other than in a non-executive capacity.
The Board takes the agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the other Directors particular note of Juan Claros accumulated knowledge and experience and is responsible for chairing the Board meetings.
of Chilean industry, and therefore proposes him for re-election.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83 The Board does not consider Ramn Jara, Hugo Dryland or Board meeting attendance AndrnicoLuksic to be independent.
Ramn Jara provides advisory services to the Group.
Hugo Dryland has provided advisory services Board to the Group in his capacity as a Vice-Chairman at Rothschild, which Number Maximum remains a financial advisor to the Group.
Andrnico Luksic is the attended possible brother of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc and is Chairman of Quienco S. A. and Chairman or a Director of Quiencos Jean-Paul Luksic 9 9 other listed subsidiaries.
Jean-Paul Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez William Hayes 9 9 are also non-executive directors of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco is controlled by the Gonzalo Menndez 9 9 Luksic family.
Ramn Jara 9 9 1 Information and professional development Guillermo Luksic 3 All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
Juan Claro 9 9 This typically includes briengs on the Groups operations and projects, Hugo Dryland 9 9 meetings with the Chairman, other Directors and senior executives, briengs on the legal, regulatory and other duties and requirements Tim Baker 9 9 of a director of a UK listed company and visits to the Groups Ollie Oliveira 9 9 key operations.
Nelson Pizarro 9 9 The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, 2 Andrnico Luksic 55 the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other Nine meetings were held in the year.
changes affecting the Group as a whole.
1 Guillermo Luksic passed away on 28 March 2013 following a period of illness.
2 Andrnico Luksic was appointed to the Board on 9 April 2013.
The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly, both to Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
attend Board meetings and other meetings with management, and All Directors in ofce at the time of the Annual General Meeting attended that meeting.
for site visits to the Groups operations.
The Directors based outside the United Kingdom also regularly visit this country, normally at least once a year to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting held Performance evaluation in London.
During the year the Board receives briengs from external advisors on key changes to the regulatory and legal environment During the year, the Board commissioned an independent, externally impacting the Group.
facilitated evaluation of its effectiveness.
This complemented separate The Board and its Committees receive an analysis of the key matters externally facilitated reviews of the Audit and Risk Committee and the for consideration in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
Remuneration and Talent Committee earlier in the year.
They also receive regular reports which include analysis of key All of these evaluations were undertaken by Independent Audit Limited metrics in respect of operational, financial, environmental and social who has no other connection to the Group and involved face-to-face performance, as well as key developments in the Groups exploration interviews with all Directors, members of the Antofagasta Minerals and business development activities, information on the commodity Executive Committee, the heads of audit and risk management markets, the Groups talent management activities and analysis of and the Companys external advisors.
The evaluation also included theGroups financial investments.
a detailed review of Board and Committee papers to enable the evaluators to assess the quality and subject matter of information All Directors have access to management and to such further provided to the Board and the Audit and Risk and Remuneration information as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities andTalent Committees.
Relevant management will present to the Board and its Committees on the operational or development matters under More information on the evaluations of the Audit and Risk Committee consideration, allowing close interaction between the Board members and the Remuneration and Talent Committee can be found in the and a wide range of executive management.
relevant sections of this report on pages 86 and 96.
All Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice The review of the Board observed that the Board functions well as concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
a group of committed Directors who combine a good mix of skills The Company has appropriate insurance in place to cover the in line with the governance needs of the business and that a strong Directorsagainst any legal action against them.
awareness of the importance of taking minority interests into account is combined with a good understanding of required governance practices.
Improvements over recent years in the way the Board and Committees operate are now being reected through a movement to place less emphasis on reviewing operational matters and more on reviewing strategy and monitoring projects.
The Board spends a considerable amount of time in meetings to help ensure that these issues are fully covered.
84 Governance Corporate governance report The Board recognises, however, that this strengthening is a continuous The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders process and has committed to an action plan for the coming year to andsell-side analysts as well as potential shareholders.
This address some of the areas identied as needing further development.
communication is managed by the Investor Relations team, and These include: includes a formal programme of presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group following the continued development of the structure and content of the the announcement of the half-year and full-year results.
The Group Board information packs to help the Directors identify and focus also issues quarterly production gures.
Copies of these production onthe main issues and risks: announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by a review of the process for overseeing project lifecycles: the Company are available on its website.
The Group also publishes a separate Sustainability report to provide further information on its the introduction of a strategy away day to help strengthen the social and environmental performance.
The Board receives regular increased focus on strategic issues including the people and summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings held as part of management development approach: the investor relations programme as well as receiving analysts reports enhancement of the Board support team: and on the Company.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is also more frequent Director contact with operating teams on site.
used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and The results of the evaluation process will be used by the Chairman in private shareholders.
further developing the effective operation of the Board, and are also The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors used by the Nomination Committee when considering the overall and sell-side analysts throughout the year, which included an composition of, and appointments to, the Board.
international investor road show programme, presenting at industry conferences, asell-side analysts visit to Chile as well as individual investor meetings.
These were attended by various members of Relations with shareholders the management team, including Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Group, DiegoHernndez, the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of Alfredo Atucha, the Vice-President of Finance, Gonzalo Snchez, the the London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, in which Vice-President of Sales, and Alejandro Rivera, the Vice-President of members of the Luksic family are interested, controls 60.65% of the Corporate Development.
Shareholders were also invited to meet with ordinary share capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital William Hayes, the Companys Senior Independent Director, and other of the Company.
Aureberg Establishment, which is controlled by Directors were given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders the Companys Chairman, Jean-Paul Luksic, holds 4.26% of the and attend meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
ordinary share capital of the Company.
The majority of the remaining Issues of particular focus for investors during the year included: approximately 35% of the Companys ordinary shares are held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
the resumption of development and subsequent progress oftheAntucoya Project: Institutional shareholder location the Groups focus on browneld development projects and thepotential from longer-term growth projects: % the capital distribution policy of the Group: A F A England & Wales 36 cost reduction programmes implemented to control operating E B Scotland 6 andcapital cost ination: C North America & Canada 26 potential issues around the availability of key strategic resources D Rest of Europe 17 forthe mining sector in Chile such as water, labour and energy: and E Rest of World 9 general commodity market conditions.
D F Unknown 6 Feedback from investors is considered by the Board when B C Analysis of free-oat investors by geographical location making decisions.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 Audit and Risk Committee Role and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee Membership and meeting attendance Number Maximum The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee attended possible is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control.
The Committee is responsible for William Hayes 66 overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditor and Chairman monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk Tim Baker 6 6 management functions.
Ollie Oliveira 6 6 The Committee meets at least three times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
There is a rolling agenda which covers regular William Hayes matters such as the review of the year-end financial statements and half-yearly financial report, planning for the year-end reporting and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee external audit processes, monitoring the Groups tax strategy and processes, reviewing the internal audit work plan and reports from therisk management function, as well as providing time for ad-hoc matters requiring the Committees consideration.
The Committee heldsix meetings during 2013.
As the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, I am pleased to present the 2013 Audit and Risk The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and if necessary Committee report.
The Audit and Risk Committee further discuss the matters considered in detail by the Committee.
plays a central role in ensuring that the Groups During the year the Committee undertook a review of its effectiveness financial reporting is transparent and of highand of related management functions.
The review was externally quality.
We believe that quality reporting is critical facilitated by the governance specialists Independent Audit Limited.
to allowing the Groups shareholders to properly The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the understand and evaluate our performance and Companys website www.
The terms of reference goals.
We also oversee the Groups risk management have been reviewed and updated during the year, principally to reect changes introduced by the revised UK Corporate Governance processes to ensure that the Groups key risks are Code and the associated Guidance on Audit Committees issued in appropriately identied, monitored and controlled.
Key Board activities in 2013 Reviewed the Groups annual and half-year results, including Audit and Risk Committee consideration of the carrying value of the Antucoya project, membership and the accounting impact of the updated reviews of mine closure plans.
The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings of the Committee during the year are shown in the table above.
Reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including external auditor.
relevant qualications and experience, are set out on pages 74 and Reviewed the activities and key findings of Internal Audit 75.
All of the Committee members are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira during the year, and reviewed and approved the 2014 Internal are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee received briengs during the year on developments in Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management function financial reporting requirements and other relevant regulatory changes.
and the Groups system of internal control, including reviews of the Groups key risks and related mitigations.
Reviewed updates from the General Managers of the Groups operations in relation to their specic key risks and control activities.
86 Governance Corporate governance report significant issues in relation to the financial statements considered Committee review bythe Committee during the year were: At the beginning of the year the Committee commissioned an The carrying value of the Antucoya projects assets following independent evaluation of its effectiveness.
As noted above, this the impairment charge recorded in the 2012 year-end results, the was undertaken by Independent Audit Limited and involved a review carrying value of the Antucoya projects assets was reviewed as of committee papers and interviews with over 30 people including at 30 June 2013 and 31 December 2013 to ensure that no further Directors, managers and advisors.
impairment or reversal of the earlier impairment was appropriate.
The impairment recorded in 2012 is discussed in Note 4 to the The recommendations contained in the report prepared by financial statements.
Independent Audit were accepted by the Committee and resulted in Mine closure provisions review of the appropriateness of the the execution of a detailed plan for enhancing certain aspects of the provisions recognised in respect of future mine closure costs, in Committees work and processes.
Primarily this has involved: particular at Los Pelambres and Michilla where detailed updated a greater focus on the risk management process, including working reviews of the eventual mine closure activities and costs were with the new Head of Risk Management, to strengthen procedures performed during the year.
The Groups closure provisions are under the executive supervision of the Vice-President of Finance: detailed in Note 28 to the financial statements.
more frequent deep dives on the management of specic Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment and of project risk areas: costs consideration of the appropriateness of the capitalisation of significant project expenditure, in particular in respect of more emphasis on ensuring the development of a stronger internal the commercial viability of the project.
Details of additions to audit function under the management of a new Head of Internal property, plant and equipment are set out in Note 14 to the Audit, including a revised approach to reporting to the Committee financial statements.
onaudit findings: and further strengthening of the Committees liaison with the external auditors to reect increased demands on audit committees inassessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
External audit The Committee is satisfied with the progress made in executing the The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relationship detailed plan during the course of the year and expects to complete with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews and approves theplan duringthe course of 2014. the scope of the external audit and the external auditors terms of engagement and fees.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the external audit process and is responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditor.
The Committee is also Financial reporting responsible for making recommendations to the Board for the The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
It reviews whether the Groups accounting policies are appropriate, The Committee meets with the external auditor without management and managements estimates and judgements applied in the financial present at least once during the course of the year.
The Committee assesses risks which could impact the quality and effectiveness of the Groups financial Eectiveness of the external audit process reporting process.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit The Committee reviews the year-end financial statements and halfprocess during the year, including consideration of the following factors: yearly financial report, as well as other relevant external financial reports.
The Committee also reviews the going concern basis adopted the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan and the significant in the year-end financial statements and half-yearly financial report, risk areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance of the prior to its endorsement by the Board.
audit in line with the agreed plan: the technical skills and industry experience of the audit engagement At the request of the Board, the Committee considered the 2013 partner and the wider audit team: Annual Report and Financial Statements and concluded that, taken as a whole, this was fair, balanced and understandable, and provided the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee: the necessary information to allow shareholders to assess the Groups the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and Chilean performance, business model and strategy.
audit teams: the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between the Groups management and the external auditor: feedback from management, including questionnaires completed bythe operational finance teams in respect of the effectiveness ofthe unit audit processes: consideration of the auditors management letter and, in particular, the view this provides of the auditors level of understanding and insight into the Groups operations: and review of reports from the external auditor detailing their rms internal quality control procedures, as well as the auditors annual transparency report.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87 Independence and objectivity of the external auditor Internal audit The Committee monitors the external auditors independence The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and objectivity.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the The Company has a policy in place which aims to safeguard the Committee.
A new Head of Internal Audit was appointed during the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes year with the Committee approving the appointment.
The Committee measures in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, meets with the Head of Internal Audit without management present the types of non-audit services which the external auditor may and during the course of the year.
may not provide to the Group, and the approval process in respect of The Head of Internal Audit presents to the Committee several times permitted non-audit services.
Non-audit services which the external during the year.
The Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits auditor is not permitted to provide under the policy include internal plan of work for the coming year, including the departments budget, audit outsourcing, valuation services which would be used for financial headcount and other resources.
Internal Audit then reports to the accounting purposes, preparation of the Groups accounting records Committee on the departments performance of its work in comparison or financial statements, and financial information systems design and with the approved plan.
Summaries of the audits undertaken during implementation.
Certain permitted non-audit services always require the year are presented to the Committee, as well as follow-up on prior approval by the Committee, whereas certain other services managements response to Internal Audits recommendations.
require prior approval by the Committee when the related fees are All individual Internal Audit reports are also distributed to the Committee above specified levels currently $50,000 for a single engagement or members once they have been nalised.
In addition to this approval process for specic non-audit services, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors the total level of non-audit services to ensure that neither the objectivity nor the independence of the external auditor is put at risk.
Risk and compliance management A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 7 and internal control to the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Groups key which amounted to $0.3 million.
This mainly related to an evaluation of risks, as well as for maintaining sound risk management and internal the risk management process.
The Committee has reviewed the level control systems.
The Groups system of internal control is designed of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectivity and independence of the auditor is not impaired by reason objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute of such non-audit work.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect The external auditor also provides a report to the Committee at of risk and related controls.
As discussed in the Risk management least once a year setting out their rms policies and procedures for section on page 24, the Committee assists the Board with its review maintaining their independence.
ofthe effectiveness of the risk management process and monitoring Following the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process of key risks and mitigations.
The Chairman of the Committee reports and independence and objectivity of the external auditor during the to the Board following each Committee meeting, allowing the Board year as set out above, the Committee has recommended to the Board tounderstand and if necessary further discuss the matters considered that it should propose the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors at in detail by the Committee.
These processes allow the Board to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company in May 2014. monitor the Groups major risks and related mitigations, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks which arise from the Groups Deloitte LLP has been auditor of the Group since 2000, following a operations and development activities.
competitive tender process in that year.
The current lead audit partner will rotate off the engagement following the completion of the audit of Each year the Board, with the support of the Committee, performs the 2014 financial year, after five years in the role, and the Committee a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and has decided to undertake an audit tender process at that point.
In the internal control systems, in accordance with the revised Turnbull event that Deloitte is unsuccessful in that process, the Board will Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting appoint a successor with effect from the conclusion of the 2014 audit Council.
The review covers all material controls including financial, and shareholders will be invited to confirm this appointment at the operational and compliance controls.
During 2013, a review of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
If Deloitte is successful, shareholders risk management and internal control systems was performed by will have the opportunity to re-appoint the rm at the 2015 Annual theCommittee, with the Chairman of the Committee reporting back General Meeting.
tothe Board on the findings of the review.
The risk management function presents to the Committee several times during the year, including details of developments in the Groups overall risk management processes and key Group-level strategic risks.
The General Managers of the Groups operations also present to the Committee, with each operation typically presenting at least once a year.
The presentations include details of the operations most significant risks and related mitigating controls and any significant control issues that have arisen.
88 Governance Corporate governance report The Committee monitors that appropriate compliance policies and Role and responsibilities of the procedures are being observed throughout the Group.
The Committee is responsible for approving the nomination of the Groups Crime Nomination Committee Prevention officer and receives reports from the risk management function in respect of the Groups Crime Prevention Model, in The Nomination Committee is responsible for the process for new accordance with Chilean anti-corruption legislation.
It makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
whistleblowing arrangements, which enable staff and contractors, The Nomination Committee also periodically reviews the composition incondence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties or nonof the Board, including the balance between Executive and Noncompliance with the Groups Ethics Code.
The Committee receive Executive Directors and considers succession planning for the Board.
quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the procedures in place incorporate arrangements for the proportionate The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the and independent investigation of matters raised and for the appropriate Companys website www.
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and, in any event, Further information relating to the Groups risk and management atleast once a year.
systems is given in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on pages 24 to 27.
Appointments to the Board Nomination Committee In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee Membership and meeting attendance considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and identies potential candidates who would most benefit the Board.
Number Maximum attended possible It considers the candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining industry, Latin America, capital markets and the regulatory Jean-Paul Luksic 22 environment, and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the Chairman role.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
William Hayes 2 2 During 2013, Andrnico Luksic was appointed to the Board on the Juan Claro 2 2 recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
In this selection process there was due regard to diversity including gender, skills, Jean-Paul Luksic experience and other time commitments.
Andrnico Luksic brings Chairman of the Nomination Committee extensive experience across a range of business sectors throughout Chile, Latin America and Europe.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that it identied an appropriate candidate through its knowledge of the relevant industrial and As the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, geographical sectors and, accordingly, did not need to advertise thepost or use a search agency.
I am pleased to present the 2013 Nomination Committee report.
The Nomination Committee plays an important role in making recommendations to Boardroom diversity the Board on the appointment of new Directors and The strong and committed Board includes individuals with a diverse ensuring that appointments are made on merit and range of technical skills, backgrounds, expertise, nationalities and against objective criteria.
The Board does not yet have a female director, but a Committee recommended the appointment of suitable candidate is being sought.
Appointments continue to be made entirely on merit, whether at Board, executive or operational level and Andrnico Luksic to the Antofagasta plc Board.
the Group is confident that a candidate will be found who is selected The Nomination Committee continues to evaluate in line with this principle.
As explained in the corporate sustainability potential Board candidates to ensure that the Board section of the Strategic report on page 57, women are represented remains eective and diverse.
at every level of management other than on the Board and the Group continues to employ the highest percentage of female employees at our operations of any major mining company in Chile.
Key activities in 2013 Appointment of Andrnico Luksic as a new .
Ongoing review of the composition and balance of the Board, and Board succession.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89 Re-election Role and responsibilities of the In accordance with the Code, all Directors will be standing for reSustainability and Stakeholder election at this years Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2014.
Management Committee Having taken into account the results of the performance evaluation ofthe Board see page 83, the Board is satisfied that each of the The Board has ultimate responsibility for sustainability.
The Board Directors continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate has put in place procedures and management structures at a commitment to his role and is recommended for re-election.
Group and divisional level to ensure the implementation of its sustainable development principles and Antofagasta Minerals social Sustainability and Stakeholder and environmental strategy.
These arrangements are part of the overall Group governance arrangements described in the corporate Management Committee governance report.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Membership and meeting attendance Committee periodically visit the Groups operations to review performance and promote good practice, particularly in relation to Number Maximum safety.
The Chairman of the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management attended possible Committee periodically reports to the Board on the performance and Ramn Jara 55 activities in the matters of its competence.
The Board has strengthened Chairman the current procedures and management structures of the Group to ensure the implementation of its sustainable development principles Juan Claro 4 5 andAntofagasta Minerals social and environmental strategy.
Tim Baker 5 5 The Directors responsibilities, including those relating to risk management and control, are described in the statement of Directors Ramn Jara Responsibilities.
Chairman of the Sustainability The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee assists andStakeholder Management the Board in its responsibilities with respect to the Groups social responsibility.
The Board takes into account the community, social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions.
As the Chairman of the Sustainability and The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committees responsibilities include providing guidance in relation to sustainability Stakeholder Management Committee, I am pleased matters generally: reviewing and updating the Groups framework to present the 2013 Sustainability and Stakeholder of sustainability policies and strategies including safety, health, Management Committee report.
2013 was a environmental, social and stakeholder issues: monitoring and reviewing busy year for the Committee in which we visited the Groups performance in respect of sustainability matters, indicators and targets: escalating matters of concern to the Board and reviewing the mining divisions operations and projects and approving the Groups annual Sustainability Report, which is to specically review the Groups sustainability published separately.
performance and strategies to identify and address The Groups annual Sustainability Report provides further information areas of risk for the future.
on its social and environmental performance.
More information on sustainability is set out in the corporate sustainability section of the Key activities in 2013 Strategic report on pages 50 to 63.
Reviewed and approved the 2012 Sustainability Report and the corporate sustainability section of the 2012 Annual Report.
Requested the external verication of the 2013 SustainabilityReport.
Requested for all operational and project sites to be audited regularly by the risk management team with a particular focus on health and safety.
Reviewed and approved the new Group Health and Safety policy and reviewed health and safety performance reports for the Groups operations, projects and exploration projects.
Reviewed and approved the new corporate image for the Groups mining division.
Met on-site at the mining divisions operations and projects.
