CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Statement audit committee in October 2013 when John director appointments reported above Andrew Higginson Chairman of the Board McGuire will relinquish his role but also remain were made.
Dear Shareholder, Ivan Fallon and John McGuire will Simon Patterson will assume the chair remain as members of the board for the The board is committed to meeting a high of the nomination committee with foreseeable future as the board considers standard of corporate governance and immediate effect, taking over from that both still have much to offer in terms compliance with the principles in the UK Lord Stone of Blackheath and finally, of their knowledge and experience which Corporate Governance Code issued by Fiona Laird will become chairman of the will be of immense value to the new nonthe UK Financial Reporting Council in 2010 remuneration committee on 1 October executive directors.
2013 when Ivan Fallon relinquishes that role but remains on the board as a director.
In view of the foregoing, the board Statement of compliance with the Code considers that it now has a majority of For the year under review the board Alan White, Chief Executive Officer, indicated independent non-executive directors and considers that it and the company have at last years annual general meeting his that the composition of the board has complied with the provisions of the intention to retire from the company.
After the necessary balance of executive and Code except for provision B6.1 and B6.2 a search for suitable candidates, Angela non-executive directors to provide the as the board has decided that an informal Spindler was selected to become CEO and requisite skills, experience and judgement review of board effectiveness will join the company on 1 July 2013 and will appropriate for the requirements of the was appropriate.
All other provisions of be appointed a director after the 2013 annual business and full board effectiveness.
the Code have been complied with.
The following paragraphs explain how Pursuant to recent amendments to the the main principles of the Code have The board now comprises of ten members, Code, the company now requires all been applied.
The Remuneration Report eight of whom are non-executive.
There is directors retire and submit themselves for contains further details on pages 33 to 42. a clear division of responsibilities between re-election annually and, again this year, the Chairman, Andrew Higginson, who is each of the directors will again retire at In September 2012, the Financial Reporting responsible for the effective operation of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Council published a new edition of the UK the board and the Chief Executive, Alan All directors, including those appointed Corporate Governance Code, effective White, who is responsible for the groups since the last annual general meeting, from the companys next financial year the operational performance.
being eligible, will offer themselves for New Code.
The changes largely relate to reappointment at that meeting.
Accountability, Part C of the Code, which The board is sensitive to the need for covers areas such as financial and business non-executive directors to remain With the exception of Ivan Fallon and reporting, audit committees and auditors.
independent of the management in order John McGuire who are on a three month The intention of the board is that the to be able to exercise proper oversight rolling arrangement, all non-executive company will fully comply with the changes and effectively challenge the executive directors serve on letters of appointments introduced in the New Code in 2013. directors.
The non-executive directors stipulating three year terms.
All nonwho served during the financial year executive appointments are terminable, Board composition ended 2 March 2013 were: without compensation, on between A new non-executive chairman, Andrew three and six months notice by either Higginson, was appointed a director on Andrew Higginson Chairman : party and are subject to other early 3 July 2012 taking over as chairman from Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE: termination provisions, for example without Lord Alliance of Manchester, who remains Ivan Fallon deputy chairman and senior compensation in the event a director is not a non-executive director, on 1 September independent non-executive director : re-elected upon retirement by rotation in 2012.
Lord Alliance of Manchester was not John McGuire chair of audit committee : accordance with the articles of association, involved in the selection process for the and or at the annual general meeting.
appointment of Andrew Higginson as his Anna Ford.
Lord Stone of Blackheath resigned 2 The board, having carried out a January 2013 performance evaluation, considers that During the year there were a number of Nigel Alliance OBE resigned 2 January 2013 the performance of all directors and other significant appointments to the board their commitment to the role of director of directors.
As they had both served for Of these Ivan Fallon and Lord Alliance of continues to be effective.
terms beyond which the Code regarded their Manchester CBE are no longer regarded independence to be impaired, Lord Stone by the board as independent owing to Biographical detail of each director of Blackheath and Nigel Alliance stepped their length of service on the board and, in is provided on page 16 of this annual down from the board on 2 January 2013.
In the case of Lord Alliance, his position as report to enable shareholders to make March 2013 three new non-executive directors a major shareholder.
All of the other nonan informed decision on the re-election were appointed to the board effective 1 April executives are considered by the board to resolutions.
All appointments to the board 2013.
Ron McMillan joined the company as be independent.
are made on merit against objective criteria Senior independent non-executive director and with the intention of ensuring that in place of Ivan Fallon who will relinquish the In order to address any issues of all appointees have the requisite skills role of Senior independent non-executive independence and to bring board and sufficient time to devote themselves director later in 2013 but will remain on the composition in line with Code effectively to the business of the board board.
Ron McMillan will become chair of the requirements, the three new non-executive and to discharge their duties.
28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT Details of directors contract terms are The board is responsible for all major All board members are permitted to obtain shown in the Remuneration Report on policy decisions and for determining the independent professional advice in respect page 37.
In accordance with the Code, operational and strategic risks it is willing to of their fiduciary duties and obligations the company has made the terms and take in achieving its objectives.
The board and have full and direct access to the conditions of appointment of the nonhas delegated operational matters to those Company Secretary, who is a qualified executive directors available for inspection.
of its committees and sub-committees, solicitor and who sits on all board and the executive and operational directors committee meetings as secretary.
Diversity and senior officers, where necessary.
The Company Secretary regularly The board recognises the importance of The board is collectively responsible briefs the board on legal, regulatory diversity, including gender, at all levels for providing effective leadership and and compliance matters, shareholder of the company as well as on the board.
promoting the success of the group and engagement issues and the statutory The company is committed to equal works to a formal list of matters reserved duties and obligations of the directors.
opportunities and increasing diversity for the board a copy of which is available across our operations.
Since the last on the companys website, www.
In the last year as in previous years report two further female members have co. uk.
Matters reserved to the board the board has undertaken an informal been appointed to the board.
Fiona Laird include, amongst other things, decisions appraisal of its own performance and joined the board on 1 April 2013 as a nonon business strategy, the approval of effectiveness and also that of the executive director and Angela Spindler financial statements, the annual capital and Chairman and the boards committees.
was appointed to succeed Alan White operating expenditure plans, investment, The engagement of an external body as the companys new Chief Executive treasury and dividend policies, governance to manage the performance evaluation Officer with effect from 1 July 2013.
Once issues, major capital projects, overseeing process was considered but the board Angela takes up her post the board will the groups risk control procedures, board concluded that, in view of the changes to have female members equating to 30% membership and the composition of its the board composition and the advent of of its directors.
The board considers committees and the groups ethical, social a new chief executive officer it was not that significant progress has already and environmental policies.
appropriate to employ the services of an been made towards meeting the goals externally facilitated evaluator but that the of its diversity policy but will continue to In January of each year the members of approach adopted in the previous year consider how diversity can be enhanced the board meet with the operational board remained sufficiently robust, appropriate through the board and the senior members over a two day period to review and cost effective for the company.
management teams and across the group the progress being made against, and the The evaluation process consisted of the generally, whilst ensuring that it appoints future development of, the groups longindividual completion of a questionnaire only the most appropriate candidates to term rolling strategic plan.
containing 26 detailed questions ranging the board.
from the effectiveness of individual Day-to-day management of the group members, the size and number of board Board operation and evaluation is delegated to the operational board of reports, relationships with management, An effective board of directors leads and JD Williams & Company Limited, known the mix of skill-sets, individual contribution controls the group.
The members of the as the Home Shopping board, on which at board meetings to the effectiveness of board are shown on page 16 of this report.
both Alan White and Dean Moore sit the Company Secretary.
The questionnaire The board met eight times during the year.
as chief executive and finance director was completed by all directors in relation Directors' attendance at board meetings respectively.
to the board and also any committee of was as follows: which they were a member.
The process The board governs through clearly is designed to establish whether each Attendance mandated committees, accompanied by director continues to meet the boards robust monitoring and reporting systems.
requirements in terms of effective Andrew Higginson 5 Further detail is given below.
contribution, skills and devotion to the role.
Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE 8 The evaluation results were collated by Ivan Fallon 8 Board papers include detailed the Company Secretary for review by the Alan White 8 management reports from the Chief Chairman and then a joint review by the Lord Stone of Blackheath 5 Executive and the Finance Director, board.
The performance of the Chairman Nigel Alliance OBE 5 management accounts, broker analyses, was reviewed and appraised by the senior Dean Moore 8 compliance and regulatory briefings and non-executive director in consultation John McGuire 8 bespoke reports.
A comprehensive pack with the other board members.
The Chief Anna Ford 8 of papers is circulated to each director not Executives performance was reviewed less than seven days prior to each board and appraised by the Chairman and the resigned 2 January 2013 meeting.
Non-executive directors are non-executive directors.
The performance appointed 1 July 2012 encouraged to meet and talk to operational of the Finance Director the only other teams and the Home Shopping board and executive director on the board was undertake regular site visits to ensure that carried out in a similar manner to the they have the most up-to-date knowledge Chief Executive.
and understanding of the company and its activities and also so that the broader The evaluation concluded that the board population of the group can derive benefit and committees continue to perform from the skills and experience of the nonwell and are effective and that robust, executive directors.
free and frank discussion and challenge N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT to the operational directors and the established: the executive directors: executive directors exists at all levels.
audit committee: receiving and reviewing the annual The survey also found that the board and remuneration committee: and interim financial statements and committees continue to be effectively nomination committee: and reviewing the audit reports and auditled by their respective Chairmen and finance committee related reports provided by the external that information provided to the directors auditor: was comprehensive and sufficient After each committee meeting the reviewing and assessing the groups for the directors needs.
It was also chairman of that committee makes a system of internal risk control and concluded that each director is individually formal report to the board of directors sources of assurance: contributing to the overall effectiveness detailing the business carried out receiving reports from the company and success of the group.
No material by the committee and setting out its secretary on environmental, social or issues were raised.
governance issues: and making recommendations to the board Beyond the formal annual evaluation, Audit committee in respect of its findings in respect of all the performance of the executive directors The audit committee currently consists of of the above matters.
is continuously monitored throughout the the chairman John McGuire, Ivan Fallon year by the Chairman and the Deputy and Anna Ford.
Lord Stone of Blackheath In addition to the above scheduled Chairman.
served on the committee up to and meetings, the chairman of the committee including the date he retired from the also regularly attends the groups head The board acknowledges the provisions board on 2 January 2013.
Ron McMillan office to meet with the Finance Director of section B.
6.2 of the Code require that joined the audit committee on 1 April and, separately, the groups head of an externally facilitated evaluation be 2013 and will succeed John McGuire as internal audit.
carried out at least once in every 3 years chairman with effect from October 2013. and an external evaluation of board Fiona Laird and Simon Patterson also The audit committee also oversees the effectiveness will be carried out for the joined the committee with effect from 1 management of the groups whistleblowing financial year 2013 14.
April 2013. procedure which contains procedures for the committee to receive, in confidence, The Chairman reviews and agrees The chairman of the committee and a complaints on all operational matters.
with each director their training and sufficient number of other members of development needs.
the committee are regarded as having The committee has established a recent and relevant financial experience.
continuous process for identifying, Directors conflicts of interest By invitation, the audit committee meetings evaluating and managing the significant The articles of association of the company are also attended by the Chief Executive, risks the group faces.
This monitoring is give the directors the power to consider the Finance Director, the groups head principally based on reviewing reports and, if appropriate, authorise conflict of internal audit and the groups external from senior management to consider situations where a directors declared auditors.
whether significant operational risks are interest may conflict or does conflict with being identified, evaluated, managed and the interests of the company.
The committee met twice in the year under controlled and whether any significant review.
Committee attendance was as weaknesses exist which need to be Procedures have been set in place by the follows: addressed.
Again this year, the committee board to regularly report and record any members have received, considered and potential or actual conflicts which arise in Attendance approved an updated risk evaluation from a register which is then reviewed by the the operational directors.
Further details John McGuire 2 board at least annually.
are given later in the Risk Management Lord Stone of Blackheath 2 section of this report.
Ivan Fallon 2 No conflicts of interest were reported in Anna Ford 2 the year under review.
The board considers that the processes of the audit committee continue to be resigned 2 January 2013 Committees of the Board reasonably robust and effective and in The board has delegated specific compliance with the guidance issued by Fiona Laird, Ron McMillan and Simon authority to a number of committees the Smith Committee.
During the year Patterson joined the audit committee with to deal with specific aspects of under review the board has not been effect from 1 April 2013. management and to maintain supervision advised by the audit committee of, nor over the internal control procedures identified itself, any failings or weaknesses The audit committee is charged with of the group.
These committees meet in internal control which it has determined overseeing the nature and scope of the regularly and have formal written terms to be material.
groups audit process both internal and of reference which are available for external and their effectiveness.
The inspection on the companys website.
The audit committee periodically reviews committees work in the year includes: The minutes of the meetings of these the appointment of the external auditors committees are circulated to all as well as their relationship with the group, reviewing and approving the annual committee members in advance of the including monitoring the groups use of internal audit programme and resources: next following committee meeting, at the auditors for non-audit services and the meeting with the internal and external which they are ratified.
The following balance of audit and non-audit fees paid auditors both with and in the absence of committees of the board have been to the auditors.
Non-audit services are 30 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT generally subject to tender and decisions their willingness to continue in office and make recommendations to the board for on the allocation of work are made on the ordinary resolutions appointing them as appointments of directors including, when basis of competence, cost effectiveness, auditors and authorising the directors to appropriate, the Chairman of the board relevant legislation and knowledge of the set their remuneration will be proposed at and also directors of the operating board groups business.
Deloitte LLP has been the 2013 annual general meeting.
and other senior executive staff of the the groups auditor for a number of years.
Where appropriate, Having reviewed the independence and Remuneration committee the Chief Executive and Company effectiveness of the external auditor, the The remuneration committee consists Secretary attend meetings of committee has not considered it necessary entirely of non-executive directors.
to require them to tender for the audit work.
The current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
The other members are John McGuire The committee had a busy year in Deloitte LLP has during the year also and Anna Ford.
By invitation the chairman searching for, identifying and appointing provided some non-audit services to the Andrew Higginson and the Chief Executive replacements for the Chairman, the Chief company in the form of corporate tax, VAT Officer Alan White also attended committee Executive Officer and the appointment of and regulatory compliance advice.
The meetings during the year.
Lord Stone of three new non-executive directors.
In this audit committee is aware that providing Blackheath served on the committee up to task the committee was assisted in its audit and non-audit services could give and including the date of his retirement on executive search role by MWM Consulting rise to a potential conflict of interest.
Fiona Laird has joined the LLP.
MWM Consulting LLP has no other address this concern, the company has remuneration committee with effect from connection with the company.
also appointed independent advisers to 1 April 2013 and will succeed Ivan Fallon Andrew Higginson was announced as the provide advice on taxation, executive as the chairperson in October 2013.
Ron new Chairman at the last AGM at which remuneration, regulatory and pension McMillan and Simon Paterson also joined time it was also announced that Alan White matters where appropriate.
These advisers the committee with effect from 1 April 2013. would be retiring in the latter half of 2013. do not provide the group with any other Angela Spindler was chosen to replace services which could bring into question The remuneration committee met on three Alan White as the new chief executive their independence or provide any conflict occasions during the year.
Members officer and Fiona Laird, Simon Patterson of interest further details of other advisers attendance was as follows: and Ron McMillan were all appointed to are set out in the Remuneration Report on bring more independent oversight to the page 33.
Ivan Fallon 3 During the year fees paid to Deloitte LLP The nomination committee evaluates board Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 for audit and non-audit services were as candidates on merit, against objective John McGuire 3 follows:- criteria, taking into account the skills and Anna Ford 3 experience required to perform the duties Audit: 0.3m of the post with due regard to diversity resigned 2 January 2013 Non-audit tax: 0.9m and gender.
Where appropriate, external search consultants are engaged.
The remuneration committee reviews, The audit committee has considered formulates and determines the reward and The nomination committee was active in the level of fees paid to Deloitte LLP to remuneration package of each executive considering the Davies Report into Women enable it to consider and report to the director and other senior members of the on Boards and its response to the issues board any concerns it may have that company including the Home Shopping it raised.
The appointments mentioned the auditors independence is being board.
It also considers how the company above bring the female quotient on the compromised.
The majority of non-audit is applying the principles of the Code in board to 30%.
work was tax advisory services and it was respect of directors remuneration.
considered that Deloitte LLP was best The Company Secretary is responsible placed to provide such advice in view of its The Remuneration Report is included in for the induction of new directors.
New knowledge of the groups financial affairs.
this Annual Report on pages 33 to 42. directors are provided with a comprehensive The report will be put to an advisory vote pack of information including terms The audit committee has concluded that by the members at the companys 2013 of reference, information regarding the the committee has acted in accordance annual general meeting.
business and guidance on their roles and with its terms of reference and has duties as directors and meetings site visits addressed and reasonably ensured the Nomination committee with key employee contacts are arranged independence and objectivity of the The nomination committee was chaired as appropriate.
The Company Secretary external auditors.
by Lord Stone of Blackheath throughout provides an on-going programme of the year up to the date of his resignation briefings for directors covering legal and Ron McMillan will assume chair of the in January 2013.
Simon Patterson joined regulatory changes and developments audit committee on 1 October 2013. the committee and took on the role of relevant to the groups activities and chairman on 1 April 2013.
The other directors areas of responsibility.
There are no contractual obligations members are currently Lord Alliance During the year the nomination committee restricting the groups choice of external of Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon, John met on four occasions with full attendance auditor.
The committee has recommended McGuire, Anna Ford, Ron McMillan by the current members.
that the existing auditors, Deloitte LLP be and Fiona Laird.
The formal terms of reappointed.
Deloitte LLP have signified reference for this committee require it to N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 31 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT Finance committee activity.
Output from this process has also process in place for identifying, evaluating So that actions may be taken promptly been reflected in the annual audit plan.
and managing the significant risks a finance committee comprising the facing the group that has been in place chairman of the audit committee, the A risk committee has been established as throughout the year under review and to Chief Executive and the Finance Director a sub-committee of the audit committee the date of approval of the accounts.
together with such other non-executive on which the Chief Executive Officer, the This process has been reviewed by the directors as the board may appoint from Finance Director chair of risk committee, audit committee and the board, and time to time operates between scheduled the Company Secretary and head of accords with guidance appended to board meetings and is authorised to make internal audit sit, to focus on reviewing the Code.
The board has not identified decisions, within limits defined by the management's activities and to continually nor been advised of any failings or board, regarding certain finance, treasury monitor and manage the risks identified.
weaknesses which it has determined to and tax or investment matters.
Operational management is asked to be material.
present to the risk committee on a Corporate social responsibility cyclical basis on the progress of agreed Relations with investors committee actions against the major risks identified The company places considerable As reported in the Directors' report it is by the process.
The output from the importance on good communication with intended to establish a corporate social risk committee is then shared with the all shareholders, be they institutional or responsibility committee in 2013. audit committee and the board.
Institutional investors, committee met on two occasions during fund managers and analysts are kept Internal control the year and received presentations from informed of the companys overall strategy The directors have overall responsibility operational management covering group through regular meetings and investor for ensuring that the group maintains a security, information security including road-shows and site visits.
All nonsound system of internal control.
PCI compliance, risk management and PPI executive directors are kept informed There are inherent limitations in any regulatory compliance.
of shareholders views through detailed system of internal control and no feedback on surveys and polls and system can provide absolute assurance The board of directors through and analyst and broker reports are tabled and management against material with the benefit of the reports and at each board meeting.
The senior nonmisstatement, loss or failure.
Equally, recommendations of the audit committee executive director is available to meet no system can guarantee elimination of has reviewed the effectiveness of the with, and understand, the views of major the risk of failure to meet the objectives system of internal control for the year shareholders.
Against this background, under review.
The board through the audit the board has established a continuous committee discusses with the external The company aims to ensure that all process for identifying, evaluating and auditors and the internal audit department, shareholders have full and timely access managing the significant risks the group the results of audit work and any resulting to the information it discloses in the faces in order to give it reasonable internal control issues, including the annual report, the yearly and half yearly assurances regarding its operations and implementation of action points arising announcements and interim management compliance with laws and regulations.
statements and that shareholders have the opportunity to meet with the Risk management The internal audit function is independent executive management team and certain In order to ensure key business of management and the head of the members of the operating division developments and emerging risks are function has direct access to the chairman at the announcement of the groups appropriately factored into the groups of the audit committee and the chief results and also at the annual general risk management process, internal audit executive of the group.
Non-executive and executive facilitated two board-level risk sessions plans are discussed and agreed annually directors also attend meetings with in the year.
The Chief Executive Officer between the group head of internal audit shareholders on request.
As well as of the group and the Finance Director and the audit committee.
being provided with a copy of the annual along with operational directors identified, report and results announcements, the ranked and reviewed the key risks facing Appropriate internal financial controls group recently overhauled its website to the business and appraised the structure are in place throughout the group, some provide shareholders with up to date and of internal controls and identified current of which have already been referred comprehensive material about the group and proposed activities to mitigate these to in this statement.
Other examples and its activities and also real-time market risks.
The audit committee was provided include the existence of a well-defined information and prices.
Shareholders also with the output from this process and group organisation structure, with have the opportunity to ask questions, given the opportunity to conduct its own clear lines of responsibility and explicit make observations or represent their views assessment of risks across strategic, authority delegated to divisional boards to the board of directors by constructive financial and operational areas.
The results and executive management, and a use of the annual general meeting.
have been collated by internal audit and comprehensive financial reporting system used as a key driver in the annual internal which communicates plans, budgets audit plan.
and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
An enterprise wide mapping of activities across business functions was also The company has complied, and continues undertaken by internal audit during the to comply, with the provisions of the Code year to assess the level of risk within each on internal controls.
There is an on-going 32 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
