Corporate Governance Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Key matters reserved for Board approval Governance Code The Governance Report set out below is Group strategy and risk management designed to provide shareholders with a summary of the Groups governance policies Formulation and approval of long term objectives and practices and an explanation of how the Approval of changes to capital structure Company has applied the main principles Approval of major changes to management and control structures of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as relevant for the Company in 2013.
Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or geographical areas The Directors believe that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Financial and internal controls Code during 2013 save as described below.
A printed copy of the Code can be obtained Oversight of risk management and internal control framework free of charge from FRC Publications by Approval of financial statements and results announcements telephone 44 0 2082471264, email Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and notices of meetings cch@wolterskluwer.
Approval of the auditors remuneration and recommendations for their appointment removal As part of the Boards succession plans and Recommendation and declaration of dividends in order to ensure there was continuity, it was decided to ask Sir Andrew Foster to remain a Monitoring the Groups businesses against plan and budget Director until the 2015 Annual General Meeting Approval of major capital expenditure projects AGM.
With effect from 1 August 2013, Sir Approval of material contracts Andrew has served on the Board for more than nine years and is no longer deemed independent under the Code: however, it was Board membership and Committees felt important that with his significant experience Appointment of Directors he remain the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Approval of remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors Nomination and Audit Committees.
The Setting of Board Committees terms of reference intention is that Sir Andrew will continue to be a Approval of new share incentive plans member of these Committees until he stands down at the 2015 AGM: the composition of the Committees will then be brought into line with Corporate governance the Code requirements.
Undertaking formal performance reviews of the Board, Committees and individual Directors Determining the independence of Directors Receiving reports from the Companys major shareholders Policies Review and approval of Group policies, for example: health and safety risk management strategy environment charitable and political donations workplace rights human rights 56 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Reporting framework Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Group Board Nomination Committee Safety & Environment Committee Group Executive Committee UK Executive Spanish Executive North American Executive Board Committee Executive Committee Chairmans responsibilities Leadership The Board and its Committees have regular Chairing and managing the business The Role of the Board scheduled meetings and hold additional of the Board: The Board provides leadership of the Group meetings as and when required.
Directors are Together with the Group Chief Executive, and direction for management.
It is collectively expected, where possible, to attend all Board leading the Board in developing the responsible and accountable to the Companys meetings, relevant Committee meetings, the strategy of the business and ensuring its shareholders for the long term success of AGM and any General meetings.
The core effective implementation by the Executive the Group and for ensuring the appropriate activities of the Board and its Committees are management team: management and operation of the Group in documented and planned on an annual basis Ensuring effective dialogue with investors pursuit of its objectives.
and a list of matters arising from each meeting concerning mutual understanding of is maintained and followed up at subsequent The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives: meetings.
The timeline on page 59 shows the strategy, values and standards and ensuring the In conjunction with the Nomination main items of business addressed by the Board necessary controls and resources are in place Committee, taking responsibility for the during the year.
The Non-Executive Directors to deliver it.
To help discharge its responsibilities, composition and replenishment of the Board: also meet during the year without the Executive the Board has a formal schedule of matters Periodically reviewing with the Board its Directors being present.
specifically reserved for its decision, which working practices and performance: and The Chairman and the Group form the core of the Boards agenda.
The Ensuring there is an effective contribution Chief Executive Board has also delegated certain aspects of from the Non-Executive Directors and a The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief its responsibilities to the following Committees: constructive relationship between Executive Executive are held separately and the division the Audit Committee, the Remuneration and Non-Executive Directors.
of responsibilities between these roles is clearly Committee, the Nomination Committee and established as shown below.
The Chairman is The Chairmans other significant commitments the Safety & Environment Committee.
More responsible for leading the Board and ensuring are detailed in his biography on page 54. details about these Committees can be found its effectiveness.
The Group Chief Executive in this report.
is responsible for running the business of the Group and implementation of the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
com 57 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued Group Chief Executives responsibilities Senior Independent Director All Board Committees are authorised to obtain Communicating a shared purpose and the Tim Score was the Senior Independent legal or other professional advice as necessary, culture, vision and values of the Group: Director SID of the Company during 2013. to secure the attendance of external advisors at The development and implementation of As announced on 28 January 2014, Tim Score their meetings and to seek information required management strategy: stepped down from the Board on 25 February from any employee of the Group in order to The day-to-day management of the Group: 2014 and Jackie Hunt became the SID from perform their duties.
Managing the Executive management team: 26 February 2014.
As well as being available Reports of each of the Committees are Fostering relationships with key stakeholders: to shareholders whose concerns have not provided on pages 64 to 87, and include Leading the Group Executive Committee: been resolved through normal channels or information on each Committees membership, In conjunction with the Group Finance when such channels would be inappropriate, duties and work throughout the year.
Director, communicating the Groups financial the SID provides a sounding board for the performance to investors and analysts: and Chairman and serves as an intermediary for The Group Chief Executive heads the Group Liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective the other Directors, where necessary.
The SID Executive Committee which meets on a dialogue with investors and stakeholders.
also has responsibility for leading the annual monthly basis and is tasked with approving appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors UK, Spanish and North American Executives Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors constructively meet on a monthly basis and matters dealt with The Executive Directors are responsible for challenge and scrutinise the performance of at these meetings are reported to the Group the day-to-day management of the Groups management and help develop proposals Executive Committee.
businesses, implementation of its strategy, on strategy.
The terms and conditions of policies and budgets and its financial appointment of the Non-Executive Directors The reporting framework of the Board performance.
Executive management meetings are available for inspection at each AGM, on Committees and of the Group Executive comprise the Executive Directors and senior the Companys website and at its registered Committee and its sub-committees is shown management from the divisions and are held office during normal business hours.
The on page 57. regularly to discuss current issues.
Non-Executive Directors disclose to the Board The table below sets out the number of their other significant commitments.
The Principal committees of the Board meetings of the Board and its Committees procedure adopted by the Company in relation The main Committees established by the Board during the year and individual attendance to Directors conflicts of interest is detailed on are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration by the Board and Committee members page 88.
Committee, the Nomination Committee and at these meetings.
Each During the year the Chairman met on several Committee operates within defined terms occasions with the Non-Executives without the of reference, the full versions of which can Executive Directors present to allow informal be found on the Companys website at discussions on a variety of issues.
Each Committee reports its proceedings to the Board through the submission of reports and minutes as appropriate.
Number of Board meetings The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Safety & Environment Board meetings of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in 2013 7 3 1 4 3 Executive Directors Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 7 Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director 7 Non-Executive Directors Sir John Armitt 7 1 3 Joaqun Ayuso 7 1 2 Jorge Cosmen 7 1 2 1 John Devaney 0 1 Sir Andrew Foster 6 2 1 4 1 Jackie Hunt 6 3 3 Chris Muntwyler 6 2 3 Lee Sander 7 3 3 Tim Score 7 3 3 3 Company Secretary Michael Hampson also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1 Resigned from the Board on 31 January 2013.
Maximum possible meetings shown in brackets.
58 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Board activity throughout the year excluding standing items January 2013 Review of the Group Strategic Plan for 2013-2017 Capital investment German rail bids update February 2013 Capital investment Treasury funding update Approval of the Preliminary Results Announcement, Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 and Notice of Annual General Meeting Recommendation of the final dividend for financial year 2012 May 2013 Approval of the establishment of the National Express Giving Foundation in North America Approval of the international bid strategy Update on UK and German Coach businesses June 2013 Broker feedback Presentation on the UK Bus business Rail bids update Capital investment Approval of the new Revolving Credit Facility July 2013 Review of the North American HR strategy Capital investment Approval of the Half Year Results Announcement and interim dividend October 2013 Presentation on the Spanish and Moroccan businesses Presentation on the results of the Executive Committees Strategic Away Day Capital investment November 2013 Presentation on rail franchising by the Department of Transport Approval of the Essex Thameside rail bid Approval of the 2014 budget Presentation on Group succession planning Review of the results of the 2013 Board performance evaluation Presentation on the work of the National Express Foundation www.
com 59 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued As at 1 August 2013, Sir Andrew Foster had Following appointment Board oversight served on the Board as a Director for more than Business briefing meetings with the and benchmarking nine years, having been appointed on 1August Chairman, the Group Chief Executive 2004.
Sir Andrew has agreed to remain on and the Group Finance Director: The Board regularly and rigorously the Board until the 2015 AGM and the Board Meeting with the Company Secretary to reviews and benchmarks operational believe that it is in the best interests of the discuss the Group structure, the Companys and functional performance.
Company and shareholders that he should do constitution and Board procedures and terms At each Board meeting the Board so given his wealth of experience and to ensure of reference of the Board and its Committees: receives a report from the Group Chief continuity following the recent changes to the Meetings with senior management in the Executive on operational performance, Boards composition.
five divisions: and from the Group Finance Director on Meeting with the Director of Safety for an the financial performance of the Group As at 21 February 2014, Tim Score had overview of the Groups health and safety as a whole and each of the Groups served for more than nine years on the Board policy and safety record: and businesses individually.
meaning that for a short period of time until the Meeting with the Groups auditor.
The Board normally receives appointment of Jane Kingston on 26 February presentations at each of its meetings from 2014 the composition of the Board did not Information and support either a business Managing Director or meet the requirements under provision B.
1.2 Reports from the Executive Directors, which a functional head.
include in-depth financial information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Non-Executive Directors do not participate in Board meeting.
Senior management and Effectiveness any of the Companys share option or bonus advisers make presentations to the Board Composition of the Board schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
on significant matters during the year.
Every The Board consists of an appropriate balance effort is made to ensure that information Induction of new Directors of Executive and Non-Executive Directors reported to the Board is of high quality in On appointment, Directors are offered training who collectively bring a strong and in-depth terms of accuracy, quality, appropriateness, as appropriate and are thereafter encouraged mix of business skills and experience and comprehensiveness and currency.
Directors to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties considerable knowledge to assist with Board are able to seek clarification or amplification as a Director and to attend training courses decisions.
During 2013, at least half of the Board, All Directors have access to the advice and An induction process is in place for new excluding the Chairman, comprised services of the Company Secretary who Directors, the aim of which is to: independent Non-Executive Directors in is responsible to the Board for ensuring accordance with the Code.
build an understanding of the nature of the compliance with the Board procedures.
Group, its businesses and the markets in The Company Secretary is responsible for A list of the individual Directors, their biographies which it operates: advising the Board, through the Chairman, on and Committee memberships as at the date establish a link with the Groups employees: all governance matters.
Under the direction of of this report are set out on pages 54 to 55. and the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role build an understanding of the Groups main Independence includes ensuring good information flows within relationships including stakeholders and The Board considers all of the Non-Executive the Board and its Committees, and between customers.
Directors to be independent other than Jorge senior management and Non-Executive Cosmen, Sir Andrew Foster and Tim Score.
Sir Directors, as well as facilitating induction The following information is provided as part John Armitt was considered to be independent and assisting with professional development of the induction and ongoing training and prior to his appointment as Chairman.
The Company Secretary acts development of Board Directors.
as secretary to the Board and each of its Jorge Cosmen is not considered to be On appointment Committees.
The appointment or removal of the independent by the Board due to his close Governance information in relation to the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as links with the ALSA business and significant Group, including the terms of reference a whole.
As well as the support of the Company interests in the shares of the Company which of the Board and its Committees: Secretary, there is a procedure in place for are held through European Express Enterprises Guidance for Directors of British public any Director to take independent professional Limited.
Despite his non-independence, the companies generally including under advice where considered necessary.
Board feels that it benefits greatly from Jorge the law, the Code and the rules of the Cosmens extensive local market knowledge UK Listing Authority: and experience.
Board minutes covering the previous year: and Information on key Group policies.
60 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Performance evaluation The results of the 2013 internal evaluation were Re-election of Directors An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board discussed at the November Board meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Articles and its Committees is conducted annually.
The Boards discussions highlighted a number of Association, and the Code, all Directors of of areas of strength and it was felt that the the Company will offer themselves for either In 2011 an external evaluation of the Boards Board continued to work well.
Areas identified election or re-election at this years AGM.
Nonperformance was led by Geoffrey Shepheard for action from the 2013 evaluation include Executive Directors are appointed for specific of ICSA Board Evaluation, who had no other the following: terms, subject to re-election.
Non-Executive connection with the Company.
In accordance Directors will only be put forward for re-election with the Code it is the Boards intention that 2013 evaluation areas for action if, following performance evaluation, the Board the Board evaluation in 2014 will be externally believes the Directors performance continues Improve timing of Changes will be facilitated.
to be effective and demonstrates commitment delivery of Board considered when to the role.
In 2012 and 2013, internal evaluations of papers to Directors preparing the 2015 Board effectiveness were conducted by Board calendar to Accountability Stephen Connock, Group HR Adviser, via a ensure there is more Internal control statement questionnaire circulated to all the Directors.
time between delivery The Boards responsibilities of the Board papers Actions implemented from the 2012 evaluation The Board has overall responsibility for and the actual meetings are detailed below.
the Groups system of internal control and Allow sufficient time When producing for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board 2012 recommendations Actions for discussion of agendas, more time will maintains full control and direction over complex issues be allocated to such appropriate strategic, financial, operational and Increase focus on A list of matters arising agenda items compliance issues and has put in place an action plans arising from each Board and organisational structure with formally defined from Board decisions Committee meeting Ensure the Board This was addressed lines of responsibility, delegated authorities with clear is maintained with has the right balance through the current and clear operating processes.
The systems responsibilities and clear responsibilities of skills NED search process that the Board has established are designed to timescales for and deadlines for that resulted in the safeguard both the shareholders investment resulting actions completion and appointment of Jane and the assets of the Group, and are described followed up at Kingston as follows: subsequent meetings, Provide the Board with The Board meet the with actions remaining Key elements of the control framework greater contact with North American and on the list until they Financial reporting process Management senior management Spanish management are completed and specialists within the Finance Department teams once a year are responsible for ensuring the appropriate Further development Changes have and opportunities will maintenance of financial records and processes of Board succession been made to the be provided to give to ensure that all information is relevant, reliable planning including an composition of the the Board increased and in accordance with the applicable laws analysis of the future Board in 2013 exposure to the UK and regulations, and distributed both internally composition based management and externally in a timely manner.
A review of of the Board teams the consolidation and financial statements is Outcomes arising from this evaluation process completed by management to ensure that the will be further reported on in next years financial position and results of the Group are Annual Report.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
Performance management The performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the relevant Executive Directors at monthly divisional Executive meetings.
com 61 Corporate Governance Governance Report continued Annual fitness check process Group Board-level reporting on internal control Whistleblowing policy internal audit undertake an annual review During the year the Audit Committee reviews Whistleblowing policies are in place in at each operating company to assess the regular reports from the internal audit each of the Groups businesses and are integrity of the balance sheet and to check the function, the external auditor and Group also available on the Groups website, effective operation of key financial reporting and Executive management on matters relating www.
The Board information systems controls.
The results of the to internal control, financial reporting and risk supports the highest standards of corporate reviews are presented to both divisional and management.
The Audit Committee provides governance and ethical practices within all Group finance with any required actions agreed the Board with an independent assessment of its operations and continues to review its with the relevant divisional Finance Director.
the Groups financial position, accounting affairs policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has and control systems.
In addition, the Board endorsed a set of principles which establish Strategic and financial planning An receives regular reports on how specific risks the framework for how its businesses operate.
annual budgeting and strategic planning that are assessed as material to the Group Key to these is working in an open and honest process has been established whereby each are being managed.
The Group is committed to the highest division and constituent operating company standards of quality, honesty, openness and Review of internal control effectiveness assesses its competitive position and goals, accountability.
Employees are encouraged to The system of internal control and risk taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This raise genuine concerns under the policy either management, described above, has been strategy is translated into a financial plan with by contacting their line manager or telephoning in place for the year under review and up to clear milestones and performance indicators.
Any concerns the date of approval of this Annual Report raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly Capital investment A clear process is in and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to assess what action, if any, should be taken place for the approval of capital expenditure, to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risks and confidential records are maintained.
which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits inherent in achieving the Groups business The Company Secretary reports any matters of the proposed investment and any associated objectives, and can therefore provide only of significance to the appropriate committee.
Material capital expenditure requires reasonable and not absolute assurance against In 2013 there have been no cases relating Board approval.
The effectiveness to fraud or financial misconduct.
of this system has been regularly reviewed Health and safety Health and safety by the Directors in line with the Guidance on Going concern standards and benchmarks have been Audit Committees, published by the Financial The Groups business activities, together with established in all of our businesses and the Reporting Council in December 2010.
Where the factors likely to affect its future development, performance of operating companies in significant control failings or weaknesses have performance and position are set out in the meeting these standards is closely monitored.
been identified, appropriate corrective action Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Risk management reporting process has been taken.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Each division and operating company evaluates borrowing facilities are described in the Group Anti-bribery policy its internal control environment and key risks, Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 10 and A Group anti-bribery policy has been and the results are reviewed at management the Group Finance Directors Review on pages established and issued to all Group companies level and passed to the Audit Committee before 28 to 31.
In addition, note 30 to the financial and is also available on the Groups website at being presented to the Board.
This process statements includes the Groups objectives, www.
The policy is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the policies and processes for managing its capital: prohibits any inducement which results in validity and relevance of the key risks included its financial risk management objectives: a personal gain or advantage to the recipient in reports.
The review covers strategic, financial, details of its financial instruments and hedging or any person or body associated with them, compliance and risk management controls.
activities: and its exposure to credit risk and and which is intended to influence them to take These procedures are mandated and designed liquidity risk.
action which may not be solely in the interests to manage the risk in order to ensure that the of the Group or of the person or body The Group has a formalised process of operations achieve their business objectives.
employing them or which they represent.
The budgeting, reporting and review, which provides Internal audit The internal control system is prevention, detection and reporting of bribery information to the Directors which is used to independently monitored and supported by a is the responsibility of all employees throughout ensure the adequacy of resources available Group internal audit function.
The Group internal the Group.
Employees can report confidentially for the Group to meet its business objectives.
audit function reports to management and the any suspicion of bribery via an externally The Directors have a reasonable expectation Audit Committee on the Groups financial and facilitated whistleblower helpline.
that the Company and the Group have operational controls, and monitors and reviews adequate resources to continue in operational the extent to which its recommendations have existence for a period of at least 12 months from been implemented.
the date of signing the accounts.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
62 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance pp52-92 Institutional shareholders Private shareholders Remuneration The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and We welcome contact from our private The Directors Remuneration Report, including Group Finance Director have held a number shareholders and are pleased to answer their details of remuneration policy and service of meetings with existing and prospective queries.
We encourage our shareholders to contracts, is set out on pages 68 to 87. institutional shareholders during the year make use of our website to access Company Relations with shareholders as well as given presentations following the reports, Notices of meeting and general The Board recognises the importance of full year and half year results.
They have also shareholder and dividend information.
The maintaining good communications with the met and given presentations to research website also provides a direct link to Shareview Companys shareholders to ensure mutual analysts and stockbrokers sales teams.
co. uk which enables understanding of the Groups strategy, Companys appointed brokers and investor shareholders to view and manage their objectives, governance and performance.
relations advisors in turn have provided regular shareholder account online.
confidential feedback to the Company on the During the year shareholders are kept informed Annual General Meeting views of the major institutions.
of the progress of the Group through regular Notice of the Annual General Meeting and corporate communications: the Preliminary The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and related papers are sent to shareholders at Results Announcement, the Annual Report and other Non-Executive Directors are also given the least 20 working days before the meeting.
Accounts, the Half Year Results Announcement, opportunity to meet institutional shareholders Last years Annual General Meeting included the Notice of Annual General Meeting, Interim and are available by contact through the normal a presentation by the Group Chief Executive Management Statements and press releases channels.
During 2013 the Chairman met with on the progress of the business and an regarding any other significant developments, major shareholders to discuss the governance opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
as well as the dissemination of regulated and direction of the Company.
All of our Directors were available formally to information.
Such communications are made answer questions during the meeting and The Board is provided with regular updates on available to the London Stock Exchange and many circulated and talked to shareholders the views and issues raised by the Companys are simultaneously available on the Companys informally afterwards.
Voting on the resolutions investors.
During the year the Board received website, www.
Some 80% of external presentations from advisors on the shares in issue were voted and all the The Companys website houses a wide range shareholder and market perception of the resolutions were passed.
of information about the Group, including the Groups performance and strategy.
Formal Annual Report and Accounts, press releases, written responses are given to correspondence The results were published on the Groups share price data and links to subsidiary received from shareholders, as well as website shortly after the meeting.
bilateral engagement through the Group Chief forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2014 Executive, Group Finance Director and the Annual General Meeting and updating them on From time to time the Company invites Companys investor relations function.
the progress of the business this year.
research analysts and institutional investors to presentations and site visits that are designed Analyst coverage to provide more understanding of the strengths The Company is aware of 15 analysts who and capabilities of its business operations have published equity research notes covering and strategy.
National Express Group PLC during 2013 and we provide names and contact numbers of Shareholders can receive documentation their firms on our website.
such as the Annual Report and Accounts electronically and are also able to cast their votes by proxy electronically.
The Company also has an electronic proxy appointment service for CREST members.
