Strategic Report pp01-51 Strategic Report: Managing our relationships and resources Living our Values Our Vision and Values were launched three Safety Our Vision years ago as a fundamental statement of who Safety is our priority.
We have made significant To earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers we are as a business and how we operate.
progress in recent years but are aware there is by consistently delivering frequent, high always more to do.
For us safety is relentless, performing public transport services which They originate from the conviction of the Company it requires a continual focus on our processes offer excellent value that National Express wants to be.
than the potential gloss of Corporate Social Responsibility, the way we act as a business We have robust processes in place to manage embodies these Vision and Values.
In National Our Values performance, with ultimate responsibility lying Express view being a good and successful with Dean Finch, the Group Chief Executive.
Excellence company should be and are synonymous.
We review our health and safety strategy every three years, with objectives and targets Since their introduction their relevance has Safety set for each of our divisions reflecting the become ever more important.
In difficult fact that each business has its own unique Customers economic times our Vision to earn the lifetime challenges, each divisional head is responsible loyalty of our customers by consistently People for developing and managing appropriate delivering frequent, high performing public health and safety management systems.
transport services which offer excellent Community value has helped to ensure we carried We have seen significant progress since more passengers in 2013 than in 2011. we launched the Driving Out Harm safety programme across the Group in 2011.
Driving Underpinned by our Values of Safety, Customers, Out Harm sets out global safety standards for People and Community, the Vision and Values all our businesses and employees to follow.
have guided how we operate as a business and prioritised what we have focused on.
The programme is reviewed annually by independent assessors from Arthur D This year we have refreshed the Values to Little.
Their 2013 review found significant include a fifth: Excellence.
By being excellent progress in safety performance and the in all that we do we will meet customer further strengthening of safety leadership and expectations, deliver industry-leading services upgrading of processes for controlling key risks.
and act as a willing and constructive partner.
We will be reporting on our achievements under This progress is borne out by our performance.
the new Excellence Value in future years.
We have continued to promote our Driving Compared with 2010, across the Group Out Harm safety campaign, including responsible major injuries have fallen by 48%.
Ultimately, National Express firmly believes reinforcing the Golden Rules Total employee injuries are down by 39% and that these Vision and Values help us to deliver preventable accidents have reduced by 21%.
excellent services and drive growth in our business.
Safety performance 2013 2010 % Change Responsible major injuries 37 71 48% reduction Preventable accidents 578 729 21% reduction Total employee injuries 1,571 2,568 39% reduction Normalised, without National Express East Anglia.
com 19 Strategic Report: Managing our relationships and resources continued Again we see that this is delivering results.
Customers People In the last three years, improvements have Customers are at the heart of everything we Delivering on our Vision and for our customers been achieved in four of the five main businesses, do.
We continue to work to achieve their lifetime is only possible if National Express is a good with only UK Coach seeing a slight reduction loyalty through delivering excellent services.
National Express recognises that in customer satisfaction.
This was mainly due Our five Customer Golden Rules set out our workforce is our greatest asset and we want to a higher number of roadworks and delays a Group-wide standard which all employees each of our 42,000 employees to reach their full on major roads in the last year, impacting are required to follow.
potential and to give their best.
We are also embracing This approach is leading to some significant A renewed Group-wide people strategy has new technology to improve the customer achievements.
For example, c2c is currently been developed to further build employee experience.
Across the business we are using the most popular commuter train operator in engagement and to develop management mobile apps, Twitter and Facebook to provide London and the South East according to the capability to ensure we have the skill sets in real-time travel information for customers and National Passenger Survey.
c2c also has the place to drive operational excellence.
This new new ways for them to interact with us.
highest UK performance statistics in four of strategy will be rolled out during 2014, and will We have also established an annual Customer the surveys key categories: satisfaction with include a common employee benefits package Service Week, with all senior managers across the train 92%, punctuality 94%, transport making it easier for our employees to take the business working with operational staff and connections 88% and information provided advantage of discounts and offers.
We believe this first-hand at stations 88%.
And in Spain, an external This renewed strategy builds on encouraging experience across the business is crucial as survey by  has results in recent years.
Each business runs we deliver on our Vision of earning the lifetime ranked ALSA as one of the top customer an employee survey to measure engagement loyalty of our customers.
service providers in the country.
and gauge opinion on issues such as safety, We measure customer satisfaction across employee morale and relationships with all businesses.
These measures are used to managers.
These results are used to guide our set strategy and improve services in line with businesses actions and strategies to ensure customers expectations.
Our businesses are we are doing all that we can to ensure National aligning their own internal KPIs with those our Express is a good place to work.
customers tell us are most important to them.
Our UK employee surveys are carried out by the same firm, VaLUENTiS, which is widely used as an employee survey provider by the UK transport industry.
We are able to benchmark our engagement against the broader industry.
Overall customer satisfaction Our results for 2013 demonstrate that we have been making important strides forward.
The North Coach Bus c2c ALSA America result for corporate employees is amongst the highest engagement score for any business 2011 83% 80% 91% 74% 86% or part of a business in VaLUENTiS database.
2012 84% 82% 91% 77% 85% c2cs engagement score is the highest of any train company in VaLUENTiS database.
And 2013 82% 83% 92% 77% 92% UK Coach has registered the highest score in the UK Bus Coach section of VaLUENTiS database.
Businesses across the Group took part in As part of the Customer Service Week The Deputy Prime Minister, the Rt Hon Nick Customer Service Week in 2013 activities, Michael Hampson, General Clegg MP, visited our Birmingham Central Counsel and Company Secretary, met bus garage to highlight the importance of drivers at Baltimore apprenticeships 20 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report pp01-51 Our North American School Bus survey Community continues to produce strong scores.
In the As a transport company, we dont just move latest survey, 89% of employees say they vehicles.
We are proud to play a vital part in our enjoy working for the business.
communities whether thats getting people to work, taking them to see loved ones, effectively National Express has a number of policies in managing our environmental impact or, above place to protect and promote employee welfare, all, taking children safely to and from school.
such as the workplace rights and human rights policies, as well as disability, equal opportunities Both directly through the services we offer and and whistleblowing policies.
Any alleged through the jobs we provide and more widely, breaches of these policies are fully investigated we are making a difference in our communities.
by the Company and appropriate action taken We believe we have made significant strides Newman University, in Birmingham, was where necessary.
Wherever our employees in the last year.
one of the successful recipients of National choose to be represented by unions, National The National Express Foundation continued Express Foundation funding in 2013 Express actively seeks to maintain relationships into its second year, making more awards to based on mutual respect and transparency.
community groups and providing bursaries We are also committed to widening for students with challenging financial employment opportunities for young people.
Since its launch, the foundation We were delighted when this was recognised has helped around 2,400 young people through by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Rt Hon Nick supporting students at 6 further or higher Clegg MP, with a visit in November to meet education institutions and 15 community groups.
engineering apprentices at our Birmingham A third round of grants will be made shortly.
The UK Bus training team Following its success in the UK, work has have also worked with the Department for Work progressed to establish the National Express and Pensions to develop the first Sector-based Giving Foundation in the US.
As in the UK, this Work Academy for driving skills.
These initiatives new foundation is supporting students and form part of our Routes to Work programme community groups, but also has the remit to which is creating 1,700 job opportunities over support employees who are suffering hardship.
In addition to the foundations, each business Another example, from Spain, is the launch of continues to progress its own community the Muevete programme providing 80 trainees initiatives.
with work experience in ALSA, placing them in a stronger position to apply for jobs.
In Spain, 6,000 employees participated in the Kilos y Kilometres initiative in September which The Armed Forces provide a valuable source collected 10 tonnes of foodstuffs through of skilled recruits to our UK businesses.
50 collection points across the country.
The Recognising the importance of this pool donations supported the work of food banks of talent, we were proud to be the first UK across Spain.
company to sign the Governments Corporate Covenant.
Among other benefits, this provides The partnership between UK Bus and Transaid all suitably qualified ex-service personnel with expanded with the visit of two engineers to a guaranteed interview.
Our leadership here Tanzania to assess training needs of local staff has been recognised by the UK Government, at the National Institute of Transport.
This was including the Prime Minister, the Rt Hon David in addition to training inputs from four Driver Cameron MP.
Trainers in building the capability of local staff to deliver professional driver training.
The Special Olympics continue to be the main Employee, senior management charitable cause in North America.
We provided the transportation at a number of Special and director numbers by gender Olympics events throughout the US.
at end 2013 In the UK, the Employee Charity Panel made donations of almost 17,000 to 50 different Male Female charities and community groups.
The Panel only supports groups where an employee is Directors 9 1 personally involved in fundraising or volunteering, Senior Managers 53 15 and the awards it makes generate a huge amount of goodwill in the local community.
All employees 25,065 17,459 Across the Group, charitable donations totalling The gender split of the Board changed with the appointment of Jane Kingston as an independent 356,000 were made during the year.
Non-Executive Director on 26 February 2014, and the resignation of Tim Score on 25 February 2014. www.
com 21 Strategic Report: Managing our relationships and resources continued Managing our Performance area environmental impacts An important component of our Community Value is ensuring we meet our environmental KPI target by end 2013 On target responsibilities.
Our Group Property and Fuel 5% reduction in UK fleet Exceeded Environment Director works with the responsible consumption MWh 6.9% reduction director from each division to ensure we comply with relevant legislation, set ambitious targets Site energy 10% reduction in UK site electricity, gas Exceeded and deliver against them.
and oil consumption 11.28% reduction 2013 was a year of strong environmental Waste 40% reduction in UK non-hazardous waste Exceeded performance at National Express.
In the UK, going to landfill 93% reduction we set three-year targets in 2010 which we All KPIS from 2010 baseline achieved by the end of 2012, a year earlier than planned.
These targets were exceeded in 2013.
We improved our position in the UK Carbon For 2013 we are reporting our greenhouse gas We have also achieved the energy reduction Reduction Commitment Efficiency Scheme GHG emissions for the whole Group for the first targets through the use of energy efficient league table to become the best performing time.
In the UK we have already made significant heating, cooling, lighting and voltage public transport company and are now ranked progress in reducing our emissions.
21st of all companies reporting in the UK.
We our UK businesses have seen a 43% reduction We have made considerable progress with have also delivered energy reductions at our in emissions.
See panel on page 23 for more recycling waste across the Group.
We are determined to build on detail on how we report GHG emissions.
91.25% of all these achievements and consistently deliver waste produced at our stations was recycled, We have delivered these improvements through excellence in our environmental performance with many locations achieving 100% across improved management and investment.
example, we have rolled out telematics widely February 2014 saw National Express achieve across our bus and coach fleets.
Through the The Boards Safety & Environment Committee full compliance in the CRC Energy Efficiency review of driving styles and vehicle efficiencies reviews and monitors our environmental Scheme formerly known as the Carbon we have delivered the 5% reduction target in systems and processes, and makes Reduction Commitment, which provides fuel consumption a year early.
Further a clear demonstration that we are actively We have invested in a renewables programme.
information on its role and responsibilities can responding to the climate change agenda New solar panels generated, on average, 7% of be found on page 67.
The Committee will set in our development and drive of energy site energy at the six locations where they are new Group-wide targets for 2014-2017 in the and carbon management strategies.
In total 244,540 KWh of renewable coming months.
A priority for the Group has We are fully engaged with the Carbon energy was generated in 2013.
This amount been to improve its environmental reporting Disclosure Project and it is helping us manage would be sufficient to power the Milton Keynes and these new targets will fully incorporate carbon usage and our impacts on climate coach station all year.
our Spanish and North American businesses change.
You can find out more about our for the first time.
work in this area on our Group website.
UK greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2013 tCO e 2 tCO e 2 Coach owned and 3rd party 107,174 13% Bus incl.
We look to forge close Building strong relationships External view relationships with local boards to create National Express believes that building partnerships that deliver the services we all strong relationships is crucial to our ability both want to see.
That is why we are so proud of to deliver our Vision of consistently excellent our customer service scores and testimonials services for our customers and win new such as that from the school board at Racine contracts in our existing and new markets.
But as our Community Value makes clear, seeking to forge strong relationships is also This is an approach that we are taking into new an important part of who we are as a business.
We have worked very closely with the relevant authorities in North Rhine Public transport services require many Westphalia as we prepare for the start of our institutions and organisations to work closely services there next year.
together to ensure their delivery.
This is why we seek to build genuine partnerships to help Being an active partner in the areas we ensure we can deliver our Vision.
Our Transforming Bus Travel partnership serve also means looking beyond day-towith National Express is genuinely industry day business activity and playing a broader Our ability to deliver excellent rail services leading.
It sets tough targets that make sure community role.
That is why we launched the requires a strong relationship with Network Rail both organisations work together to achieve National Express Foundation.
We recognised that is why we were the first Rail company to the best deal for bus passengers and deliver that as Birminghams largest employer we had form an alliance with Network Rail and have a the quality of service customers expect.
This a responsibility to the community we served.
Joint Control Centre in Upminster.
We believe is only possible because of the strength of We were proud to be the first company to sign this partnership approach has been crucial in our relationship.
up to the UK Governments Military Corporate delivering c2cs industry-leading performance.
See External View Community on Geoff Inskip Our ability to deliver excellent bus and coach page 10.
Our North American business has Chief Executive, Centro services and grow patronage requires a strong supported the Special Olympics for a number of relationship with the relevant authorities.
And we are active supporters of projects why, for example, we have signed the industryrun by UNICEF in Morocco and Transaid in leading Transforming Bus Travel 3 agreement Tanzania.
There are many other examples of with Centro see right.
As the majority of our partnership and support.
UK Coach journeys are on the Strategic Road External view Being a trusted partner is good business.
But Network, we are working in partnership with the as with our Vision and Values, National Express Highways Agency to help deliver our punctuality believes that being a good partner is the sign of and reliability ambitions.
Our aim is to provide safe, excellent North America School Bus services that meet the needs of children and parents, but also the Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2013 Global GHG emissions data for calendar year 2013 Emissions from: Tonnes of CO e 2 Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities GHG Protocol Scope 1 765,526 We have worked in partnership with Durham School Services since 2000 and Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 61,808 the level of safety, delivery, and customer GHG Protocol Scope 2 service we have received is outstanding.
Other upstream emissions GHG Protocol Scope 3 7,158 The team is knowledgeable, responsive and customer service driven, consistently Total 834,492 looking for ways to provide efficient and Intensity metric tonnes CO e million revenue 441 2 reliable service.
Patrick Starken Transportation Supervisor GHG reporting methodology the latest emission factors from recognised public Racine Unified School District, Wisconsin We have reported on all of the emission sources required sources including, but not limited to, Defra, the under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
have responsibility for any emission sources that are not We have used a materiality threshold of 5% and have included in our consolidated statement.
accounted for all material sources of greenhouse The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions gas emissions.
is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Analysis of our GHG emissions is carried out externally Reporting Standard revised edition, together with by Ecometrica.
