com Audit Committee Report Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, The Audit Committee has continued to work over 2013 to improve the Companys risk management and reporting.
In this report of the Audit Committee as regards the year ending 31 December 2013, we have made every effort to provide detailed information as to the activities of the Committee over the course of the year, noting the purpose of such activities and their results, as well as to give shareholders some insight into the judgment calls made by the Committee and the basis upon which they were made.
The Committees primary responsibility is to review the financial information provided to shareholders on behalf of the Board, to review the Companys internal financial controls and to oversee its relationship with the external auditors.
The main agenda items at the four meetings of the Committee in 2013 included reviewing the regular financial reports made to shareholders, monitoring and reviewing the internal audit programme, and reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Details of the further work carried out by the Committee are given in the report that follows.
The Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are invited to all the meetings of the Committee, however the Committee also meets when appropriate with the external auditor without the presence of the Executive Directors or management.
In addition, during 2013, Deloitte assisted the Audit Committee with its internal audit function.
In order to do this, the internal auditor prepared a risk report, on the basis of which work commenced on various internal audit projects, regarding which the audit committee received periodic updates.
During 2013, the internal auditor produced three reports on issues of importance to the Group, which were received by the audit committee for comment and two of which have been finally approved.
The audit committee has further prioritised a list of internal audit issues to be examined by the internal auditor in 2014.
In October 2013, the Financial Reporting Council FRC issued a report on the reporting of audit committees, providing further insight from companies and investors on effective approaches to audit committee reporting in light of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee has sought in this report to include more detail on the specific matters raised by the FRC as well as generally to increase the visibility of shareholders to the activities of the audit committee.
Amos Pickel Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 March 2014 Stock Code: 888 31 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Audit Committee Report } Receipt and discussion of the internal audit program and Membership reports from Deloitte, in its capacity as the Companys The Audit Committee is chaired by Non-executive Director internal auditor, as well as prioritizing the internal audit Amos Pickel.
John Anderson also served on the Committee program for the upcoming year: throughout the year.
The members of the Committee are considered independent by the board, having no day-to- } Review of the legal and regulatory risks faced by the day involvement with the Company.
The Board is satisfied Company and the manner in which such risks are that Amos Pickel has sufficient recent and relevant financial monitored and addressed on an ongoing basis by the experience to chair the Audit Committee.
Normally, by Board: invitation, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief } Review of the going concern position of the company.
Financial Officer and, where appropriate, representatives of Considering all relevant factors, the Committee the Companys external auditors attend the Audit Committee determined that the Company remains a going concern.
In addition, the Committee meets with the external auditors in the absence of the Company Executive Directors The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the and management.
external audit process by establishing schedules and agendas for regular meetings with the auditors, supervising the audit Roles and Responsibilities function directly to ensure that the auditors are independent The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the and objective in their findings, meeting with the auditors Companys website, www.
to assess their plans for the audit, and working to ensure Work of the Committee comprehensive audit coverage to meet the risks and demands posed by the Companys business.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and During the year, the Committee fulfilled this role by carrying internal audits and controls, including reviewing 888s annual out the following: financial statements, considering the scope of the annual audit and the extent of non-audit work undertaken by external } Meetings with the auditors at the planning stage and at auditors, approving 888s internal audit programme, advising completion of their review of the interim accounts, at the on the appointment of external auditors and reviewing the planning and final stages of the year end audit.
Within effectiveness of internal control systems.
There is an ongoing these meetings, areas of significant interest that were process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant discussed were as follows: risks faced by the group that was in place for the year under } Review of the impairment tests applied to intangible review and up to the date of approval of the report, which is assets in light of the future cash flows expected from regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Turnbull such assets on the balance sheet and calculation of the guidance.
The Board is responsible for the groups system of appropriate discount rate: internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to } Revenue recognition policies of the group and the achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable systems and controls around the recording of income and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or in the accounts: loss.
We disclose below a summary of the processes the board } Taxation position of the group: and its committee applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the system and dealing with material internal control aspects of } The appropriateness of the accounting in respect of any significant problems disclosed in the report and accounts.
the joint venture arrangements entered into by the Group in the USA: During the year, the Committee fulfilled this role by carrying out the following: } Considering the adequacy of the Companys procedures for safeguarding the objectivity and independence of the } Review of the terms of reference of the Committee external auditor: and to ensure that they correctly reflect the roles and responsibilities of the Committee in light of the recent } Considering the implications for the Company of the Code developments: as to putting the external audit out to tender at least once every ten years.
It is noted that this audit is provided under } Review of the Companys interim and annual financial a joint arrangement within the same international firm statements and the published interim management structure and the relevant firms audit partners have been statements, with particular focus on ensuring that taken rotated every five years with the next individual partner as a whole the statements were fair, balanced and rotation due in 2014.
The Committee is considering the understandable, and provided the information necessary requirement to put the external audit out to tender in the for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, near future.
In this respect, the Committee considered the adequacy of the systems and controls on which management relies in preparing the accounts, including procedures to ensure accuracy and completeness of information and to ensure consistency with information provided to the Board throughout the year: 32 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 10 Governance www.
com The appointment or reappointment of the external auditor is put to the vote of each Annual General Meeting.
Prior thereto, the Audit Committee considers the auditors performance during the year, and forms a view as to whether to recommend that the present auditor be re-appointed or an alternative be proposed.
As regards 2013, the Audit Committee formed the view that the external auditors performed their role in a professional manner and recommended that the auditor be re-appointed for 2014 at the next AGM in May 2014 and, if so appointed, that they will hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid.
BDO LLP and BDO Limited were appointed as the Companys external auditors in 2004.
Whilst the Code requires companies to comply with the requirement to put the external audit out to tender once every ten years, or explain their failure to do so, the Financial Reporting Council put forward some possible transitional arrangements, including suggesting that companies which appointed their auditor post-2000 may defer the tender process until after one more audit partner term.
In addition, the Competition Commission proposals published in October 2013, which are expected to pass into law in October 2014, also provided for transitional arrangements which will require companies which have not tendered since the beginning of 2005 to tender two years after the present partner rotation period ends: as well as European regulations approved in December 2013 and which are expected to come into law within two years in the United Kingdom, but which currently contain no such transitional arrangements.
Neither BDO LLP nor BDO Limited provides any material non-audit services to the Company.
The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Companys auditors are objective and independent by monitoring the appointment of the auditors for any non-audit work involving fees above US$0.1 million.
In 2013, the external auditors carried out non-audit work for the Company involving fees in the aggregate amount of US$0.1 million.
