com Corporate Governance Statement 888 Holdings plc is admitted to the UK Official List and its Independent Director is to provide a sounding board for the shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange under a Chairman, to evaluate the Chairmans performance and lead the Premium Listing.
As such, despite being incorporated in Boards succession planning, and to serve as an intermediary for Gibraltar, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code the other Directors where necessary.
During 2013, the Chairman applies to the Company and is available at www.
and Non-executive Directors fulfilled the functions of a Senior A new edition of the Code was published in September 2012 Independent Director.
and applies to the 2013 reporting period.
The biographical details of all of the Directors are given on page 21.
The service contracts of the present Non-executive Directors Statement of Compliance were renewed for an additional three year period on The Board remain committed to the principles of corporate 1 March 2013.
In doing so, the Company rigorously reviewed the governance in the Code which it considers to be central to the performance of its Non-executive Directors, taking into account effective management of the business and to maintaining the the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
This report explains how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
Board Strategic approach The Board focuses upon the Groups long-term objectives, During 2013, the Company materially complied with the Code, strategic and policy issues and formally and transparently other than as regards the following: considers the management of key risks facing the Group, as well } The Company did not have a Senior Independent Director as determining the nature and extent of significant risks it will serving on the Board of Directors during 2013.
The take in achieving its strategic objectives, maintaining sound risk functions of a Senior Independent Director were fulfilled management and internal control systems and reviewing annually during 2013 by the Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
the effectiveness of the companys risk management and internal control systems.
The Board is responsible for acquisitions and } Board evaluations have been conducted internally over divestments, major capital expenditure projects and considering the past three years by facilitation of the Chairman in Group budgets and dividend policy.
The Board also determines coordination with the Companys legal adviser, Herzog key appointments.
The Board receives regular updates on Fox & Neeman, who may not be considered an external shareholders views.
The Board has an established calendar of facilitator.
This covers the financial calendar, strategic planning, Board Composition annual budgets and performance self-assessments, as well as The Directors consider it essential that the Company should be the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis both led and controlled by an effective Board.
for effective integration of business activities as between the Board and its principal Committees see pages 28 and 29, which During 2013, the Board consisted of five Directors, as follows: individually consider their own operating frameworks against two independent Non-executive Directors, a Non-executive the Boards business programme.
The Board plans to meet six Chairman, and two Executive Directors, being the Chief times a year.
During 2013, the Board met six times.
Set out below Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
are details of the Directors attendance record at Board and Committee meetings in 2013.
At present, there is no Senior Independent Director on the Board.
During 2013, the Board appointed executive search firm Odgers Berndtson to undertake a search for new Nonexecutive Directors.
A process of identification of potential candidates and interviewing has taken place.
It is noted that Odgers Berndtson is independent of the Company and has no other connections with the Company.
The role of the Senior Total number of meetings held during the year ended December 2013 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nominations committee Total held in year 6 4 3 1 Richard Kilsby 6 N A N A N A Brian Mattingley 6 N A N A N A Aviad Kobrine 6 N A N A N A John Anderson 4 3 2 1 Amos Pickel 6 4 3 1 Stock Code: 888 27 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Corporate Governance Statement John Anderson did not attend some meetings as noted above, Division of responsibilities due to a period of illness, from which he has now recovered.
The responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and formally defined, with the Chairman being responsible for the effective The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for operation of the Board as a whole, leadership of the Board Board meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued to in achieving a culture of constructive challenge by NonDirectors sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate both executives, regularly agreeing and reviewing each Directors informed debate and timely decisions.
training and development needs, and supporting key external Non-executive review and performance appraisal relationships.
The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with Conflicts of Interest the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors Conflicts of interest of the Directors are dealt with in being present.
The Non-executive Directors meet once per accordance with the procedures set out in the Companys year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Articles of Association and are monitored by the Chairman.
performance of the Chairman and taking into account the Such procedures operated effectively during the year.
views of the Executive Directors.
It is part of the role of Senior Independent Director to lead this process.
Presently, the Board Succession Planning is in the process of appointing a new Senior Independent The Board considers succession planning matters on an Director: during 2013, the Chairman and Non-executive ongoing basis, with particular focus on succession planning for Directors fulfilled the functions of a Senior Independent the CEO role as well as for senior management.
The Directors have wide-ranging business experience, the Board has prioritized the recruitment of experienced Nonand no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the executive Directors.
Other issues The Board considers that John Anderson and Amos Pickel All Directors have access to the advice and services of the satisfy the independence criteria of the Code in 2013.
The Company Secretary and the Companys nominated advisers, Board is satisfied that, upon his appointment as Chairman, who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are Richard Kilsby met the independence criteria of the Code.
Directors are able to seek independent professional other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2013 advice, if required, at the Companys expense provided that are detailed in his biography on page 21.
The Board considers they have first notified their intention to do so.
that Mr Kilsbys other commitments do not interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Group and is satisfied The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Company matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and The Board has established a formal process for the annual transparent procedure for the induction of new Directors, which evaluation of its performance, its committees and individual has been formulated with the guidance of the Nominations Directors.
The evaluation process covers a range of issues Committee.
such as Board processes, Board roles and responsibilities, The opportunity to hold office as Non-executive Directors of Board agendas and committee processes.
The internal Board other companies enables Directors of 888 to broaden their evaluation relating to performance in 2013 was carried out in experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
March 2014, and included evaluation of the performance of the Executive Directors may be allowed to accept non-executive board as a whole as well as evaluation of individual Directors appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long as and the Chairman.
Pursuant to the evaluation, the Board was these are not likely to lead to any conflict of interest.
Executive satisfied that the Non-executive Directors continue to be Directors may be required to account for fees received from effective and to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Chairman in coordination with the Companys legal adviser facilitated the evaluation process.
A detailed questionnaire was The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of used covering various aspects of the Boards functions, and legal actions against its Directors.
To the extent permitted by particular focus was given to the overall quality of decisionGibraltar law, the Company also indemnifies the Directors.
making and performance of the Chairman.
Following analysis Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a of the questionnaire responses, a detailed discussion was held Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
by the Board of the results and the Companys legal adviser provided external feedback.
On the whole, the results of the Re-election and Appointment of Directors evaluation were positive, with the key follow-up action being All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders on to progress the recruitment of additional experienced Nonan annual basis in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director of the Reserved powers and delegation company and such Director shall hold office only until the next A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has been adopted AGM, when he or she shall be eligible for re-appointment by and its content is reviewed to align it with operational needs the shareholders.
and the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, Audit Committee approve matters of substance to the Group as a whole.
Details of the Audit Committees functions, together with its Senior executives have given written undertakings to ensure specific activities in 2013, are set out in the Audit Committee compliance within their business operations with the Boards Report on pages 31 to 33. formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision or approval.
com Nominations Committee Risk Management and Internal Control During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised two The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the independent Non-executive Directors: Amos Pickel Chair and Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on internal John Anderson.
control and risk management, and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control and risk management.
It is managements The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging role to implement Board policies on risk and control, including its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The system of internal control is designed to manage The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and identifying and recommending suitable candidates for appointment as Directors.
The Nominations Committees terms The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee of reference are available and are included on the Companys to review the appropriateness and adequacy of systems website, www.
of internal control and risk management in relation to the financial reporting process on an ongoing basis and to make During 2013, the Board appointed executive search firm Odgers recommendations to the Board.
During 2013, Deloitte Limited Berndtson to undertake a search for new Non-executive Gibraltar carried out the Companys internal audit function, Directors.
A process of identification of potential candidates reporting to the Audit Committee.
Details of the internal audit and interviewing has taken place.
function are included in the Audit Committee Report on page 31.
The Nominations Committee is also responsible for implementing the Boards policy on diversity within the 888s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, scope of its mandate, including setting measurable objectives has developed stringent payment risk management and and monitoring progress on achieving such objectives.
The team makes use of external considering new Board appointments, diversity including and internal systems to manage the payment risks.
Detailed gender diversity is one of the criteria considered by the procedures exist throughout the Companys operations and Nominations Committee.
The Companys statement regarding compliance is monitored by operational management and the diversity is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of internal audit function.
the Business Review on page 18.
The Directors annually review the effectiveness of the Groups Remuneration Committee systems of internal control and risk management.
The review During the year the Companys Remuneration Committee considers individual risk control responsibilities, reporting lines comprised two Independent Non-executive Directors: Amos and qualitative assessments of residual risks.
Such a review was Pickel Chair and John Anderson.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the Relations with Shareholders and framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
It is Key Financial Audiences required to take account of any recommendation made by the The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration, with principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side benefits and employment packages of the Executive Directors analysts through a planned programme of investor relations and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
The outcome of these meetings The Directors Remuneration Report, which outlines the is reported to the Board.
The programme includes formal Remuneration Committees work and details of Directors presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly release remuneration, is on pages 34 to 48.
The Remuneration of Interim Management Statements, analysts conference calls Committees terms of reference are available and are included and periodic road shows.
on the Companys website, www.
Shareholders are free to contact any Non-Executive Director to address any issues where contact with the Chairman and Chief Financial Officer is inappropriate or where such contact has failed to resolve the issue.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2014 Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 14 May 2014 and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
The Chairmen or nominated members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees will attend the meeting and be available to answer questions.
Stock Code: 888 29 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 888 Holdings plc Holdings plc Annual R Annual Report & A eport & Ac cc counts 20 ounts 2013 13 Corporate Governance Statement Compliance with Statutory Provisions As the Company is registered in Gibraltar, it is subject to compliance with Gibraltar statutory requirements.
The main legislation relevant to companies in Gibraltar is the Gibraltar Companies Act, which is based on the UK Companies Act 1929.
The Company is in full compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
Going Concern After careful review of the Groups budget for 2014, its medium-term plans, liquid resources and all relevant matters, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are disclosed in the Business Review on pages 19 to 20.
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for monitoring corporate social responsibility within 888.
The Board receives periodic reports on the Groups activities in this area from the Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 16 to 18.
Whistleblowing Policy The Companys whistleblowing policy sets out the overall responsibility of the Board for implementation of the policy, but notes that the Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for overseeing and implementing it to the designated whistle-blowing officer.
The policy provides that where an employee is not comfortable making a disclosure to his her respective direct line manager, disclosure can be made to the designated whistle-blowing officer whose details are provided.
If the subject of the disclosure in any way involves the designated whistle-blowing officer, the disclosure may be made directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or to another member of the Groups senior management.
Whilst employees are permitted to make disclosures anonymously, disclosing employees are encouraged to reveal their identity to the designated whistle-blowing officer in order to allow a full and proper investigation to take place: measures can be taken to preserve the confidentiality of the disclosure where appropriate.
The Board commits to investigating all disclosures fully, fairly, quickly and, where circumstances permit, confidentially.
Undertakings are made to employees who raise genuinely held concerns in good faith under the procedure that they will not be dismissed or subjected to any detriment as a result of his her action.
During the year, all employees of the Group were sent a reminder regarding the whistleblowing policy as part of a general refresher of various Group policies.
No reports of incidents under the whistleblowing policy were received in 2013.
Diversity Policy Details of the Companys diversity policy and involvement of women in management of the Group are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review on pages 16 to 18.
