Corporate Governance Report Governance framework The Company operates within a traditional governance framework Chairman.
Board Group Company Secretary Board Committees Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Clinical Governance Committee Nominations Committee CEO and senior management The roles and responsibilities of each of the individuals and groups above, and their role in the overall governance framework, are set out in the remainder of this Governance section.
How the Board Operates The role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall conduct of the Groups business and the performance of management and of the Group.
The Board has the powers and duties as set out in the Companys articles of association and the relevant regulations applicable to the Company as a registered public listed company registered in England and Wales.
The Board is primarily responsible for: determining the strategic direction of the Group: approving major capital projects, acquisitions and divestments: setting the annual budget: monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets: approving annual and half-year results and monitoring shareholder communications: promoting good governance within the Group, and seeking to ensure that the Company meets its responsibilities towards all stakeholders: and demonstrating leadership and focussing on matters that affect shareholder value.
The Board seeks at all times to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between short term and long term considerations and objectives of the Group.
56 The Company has an agreed formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which includes approval of strategic plans, financial statements, budgets, material investment decisions, acquisitions and divestments.
The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and is assisted by the Audit Committee in this respect.
As part of the terms of their appointment, each director agreed that they will act collectively with the rest of the Board to ensure the success of the Group.
The Board delegates authority in relation to matters which it has not reserved to the CEO who is responsible for delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
Board composition The names of the directors and their biographical details are set out on pages 46 to 48.
The Board of the Company comprises seven directors, six of whom have served throughout the year: the Non-Executive Chairman two Executive Directors one Non-Independent Non-Executive Director three Independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom was appointed during the year The Non-Executive Chairman and the three independent Non-Executive Directors are all UK based.
The two Executive Directors and the Non-Independent Non-Executive Director are based in Abu Dhabi.
The Senior Independent Director with effect from 21 January 2014 is Jonathan Bomford, who is available to shareholders should they have any concerns that they do not wish to raise with the Company or the Chairman directly.
The Senior Independent Director can be contacted through the registered office of the Company at 23 Hanover Square, London W1S 1JB.
The Board considers that the extensive and diverse business, cultural and operational experience of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, and their UK listed company experience, ensures that appropriate corporate governance procedures are considered in all aspects of Group decision making and control.
These attributes also enable them to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of: strategy, including constructively challenging the strategic direction of the Group: scrutinising and challenging the performance of the Group: assessing risk and controls operating within the Group and in its decision making: and standards of conduct and governance and other matters presented to the Board.
Process for Board changes during the year and diversity Mr Jonathan Bomford was appointed by the Board on 27 June 2013.
The decision to appoint Mr Bomford was considered by the Board as a whole and the Nominations Committee did not operate a formal process in relation to his appointment: the Company did therefore not comply with the provisions of B.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant having previous significant financial experience as a senior partner with Ernst & Young in the Middle East region, including the UAE.
Given the lack of formal financial expertise on the Audit Committee prior to June 2013, and Mr Bomfords financial and culturally aware background in the region, the Board considered it appropriate to appoint him to the Board and as Chairman of the Audit Committee notwithstanding that a Nominations Committee process was not undertaken.
Mr Bomford met various members of the Board prior to the consideration of his appointment as a Director.
As a result, given his particular experience, no external search was undertaken.
As a result of Mr Bomfords appointment, the Board considers that the Company now more fully complies with the requirement of provision C. 3.1 of the Code in relation to financial expertise on the Audit Committee.
The constitution of the current Board is diverse in terms of gender and in relation to its cultural and racial mix.
The Board will consider both gender and cultural balance when reviewing whether the future make-up of the Board is appropriate to ensure the Group is managed appropriately on behalf of shareholders.
However, neither the Board, nor the Group businesses, have formal diversity policies in 57 place in relation to board and employee appointments.
The Board considers that in addition to considering gender and race in relation to future Board appointments, it is important to consider the appropriate skills and character of potential new Directors to ensure that the Board acts effectively on behalf of shareholders.
The UAE does not have legislation in relation to gender or racial equality, but is a culturally and racially diverse country with many different nationalities working across all sectors of the countrys workforce.
Given local practice, the Group does not believe that it is appropriate to have a formal diversity policy in the region within which it operates.
However its recruitment processes ensure that the most appropriate candidate is appointed to each available role having consideration of his or her experience, skills and with consideration as to how the new employee would fit culturally into the team into which they are recruited.
Board independence For the purposes of the Code, the Board considers Mr Mark Tompkins, Mr Jonathan Bomford, Lord Clanwilliam and Mrs Heather Lawrence to be independent.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors met separately to the other directors on five occasions, as well as having a number of other ad-hoc meetings and discussions, during the year.
During their meetings the Independent Non-Executive Directors discussed various board related matters and other matters which, given their position as Independent Directors, they considered were of interest to them.
The Board did not classify His Excellency Saeed Bin Butti who served during the 2013 financial year as an Independent Director for the purposes of the Code because of his significant shareholding in the Company.
However, His Excellency has a detailed knowledge of the UAE and its culture, as well as having good connections within Abu Dhabi, both of which were of significant value to the Group and the Board.
Tenure of independent non-executive directors Provision B.
1.1 of the Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor in determining the independence of non-executive directors.
The table below therefore shows how long each of the Independent NonExecutive Directors have been members of the Board.
Date of appointment Full Term years to Considered to be 2014 AGM independent by the Board H J Mark Tompkins 7 March 2012 2 Yes Jonathan Bomford 27 June 2013 1 Yes Lord Clanwilliam 7 March 2012 2 Yes Heather Lawrence 19 March 2012 2 Yes Key roles and responsibilities in the governance structure The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are separate.
Chairman The Chairman was appointed to the Board in March 2012 in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
The Chairman is responsible for the proper functioning of the Companys Board of directors who oversee the strategic direction of the Group including: the effective operation and governance of the Board setting the agenda and coordinating the style and tone of Board discussions ensuring the directors receive accurate and timely information 58 Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for identifying, with the senior management team, opportunities that are deemed appropriate and in line with the Boards strategic objectives.
He is also responsible for delivering the key strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is assisted in this task by the senior management team who meet regularly to review the performance of the business, the progress of key capital projects, new development opportunities as well as other material matters arising within the business.
Members of senior management attend Board meetings, as appropriate, to highlight and debate, with the Board, developments within their areas of responsibility Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors as required.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not managed to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or who feel that such contact is inappropriate for the concerns that they may have.
Group Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the Board Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and in organising induction programmes for new Directors.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The biographical details of the Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director can be found on page 46-48.
The biographical details of the Group Company Secretary can be found on page 50.
Conflicts of interest Given the history of the Group as a private business, the Board is aware of the interest that the Executive Directors have in other businesses in which they have invested.
Any conflicts of interest that may arise are monitored by: The list of the other interests of each Executive Director being circulated to the Board at each of its Board Meetings: Each of the Directors are asked to confirm that they have no other interests which would conflict them for the purposes of any item to be discussed at the meeting: where such conflict is reported, the respective Director is not permitted to take part in the consideration of that matter by the Board: Each Director discloses to the Board any related party transactions in which they are connected, and such transactions are reported in the Groups financial statements.
Whilst Directors on the Board have other business interests, the Board do not consider that these, nor the time commitment that they require, materially affects the ability of such Directors to undertake their role or comply with their statutory obligations, directly or through their designated nominees.
Board meetings The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in finalising the agenda for each Board meeting and ensuring that appropriate papers are provided from the management team in a timely manner for circulation in advance of Board and committee meetings.
This is to ensure that fully informed decisions can be reached.
The Board considers the following standard matters at each of its Board meetings: Operational performance through the CEOs report Financial performance, including monitoring current and forecast trading, cash and debt levels against its expectations presented through the CFO report 59 Progress being made on the Groups key capital development projects Legal and regulatory matters Investor relations, including an update in relation to activity in the Companys shares and principal movements of its shareholders During the course of the 2013 financial year the Board has also considered, as appropriate: the Groups half-year and full-year results interim management statements updates from the Chair of discussions held at each of the Board Committees the proposed budget for the following financial year the Groups future strategy monitoring the progress of succession planning procedures which are in the process of being implemented in relation to senior management of the Group the changes made in the Corporate Governance environment the replacement of the Groups Term Debt Facility changes in the way in which the Groups capital development projects are managed changes proposed by management to the Groups IT environment, including a new Hospital Information System and a new financial system, the implementation of which are both underway.
Board effectiveness Director Induction On appointment, directors have the benefit of a personalised induction programme which is undertaken during the first few months of their tenure as a director.
Each induction programme covers a number of different areas including: briefings and presentations from management to understand the business operations and financial drivers their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors opportunities to visit the Groups key facilities and new capital development project locations meeting privately with the Companys key advisors Board information and professional development The Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst themselves and with senior management, which ensures that Non-Executive Directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups business.
Following an initial induction process, it is important that the Non-Executive Directors meet with management and undertake visits to operational facilities each year in order to further understand the way the business operates and any change within the business.
Each of the NEDs have visited the UAE a number of times in 2013, with particular emphasis on monitoring progress in relation to the Companys key capital projects and to oversee the implementation of improving controls and governance within the Group.
As part of their overall training and development needs, all of the non-executive directors have attended externally provided seminars and discussion forums relating to their areas of Board responsibility during the period and also met individually with a number of industry specialists to increase their current knowledge of key investment issues in the healthcare sector.
Given the significant changes in the governance framework and reporting requirements for companies listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange, all of the Directors have either attended specific seminars or received presentations and documentation covering all aspects of corporate governance.
All Directors also received a comprehensive file of documents towards the end of 2013 designed to increase their specific knowledge of the implementation of new governance requirements for London Stock Exchange Premium listed companies.
60 In early 2014, a formal process of reviewing each Directors training and development needs has commenced.
This review, undertaken by the Chairman with individual Directors, will set the framework for each Directors professional development in any particular financial year.
Performance evaluation As mentioned above, the Board did not undertake an evaluation of its own performance during the year to 31 December 2013.
It is the Boards intention to formally evaluate the performance of directors individually and collectively during the first half of the 2014 financial year and to advise shareholders of the findings of that review in the 2014 Annual Report and audited financial statements.
Re-election of directors All of the directors of the Company submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on 26 June 2014, with the exception of Jonathan Bomford who will seek election at his first annual general meeting as required by the Companys articles of association.
Each resolution for re-election of a retiring director, or the election of a new director, will be proposed as a separate resolution.
Whilst a formal performance evaluation has not taken place, the Board have confirmed that the contributions made by each director to board deliberations continues to be effective and that the shareholders of the Company should support their re-election or election.
Independent advice Each of the directors is permitted to obtain independent legal advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
This would normally be managed through the Group Company Secretary.
All directors, and the Board as a whole, also have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who, under the Chairmans direction, is responsible for ensuring that good Board procedures are followed.
Indemnification of directors The Company has put in place a Directors and Officers Liability Insurance policy which provides all Board members with insurance cover in respect of liabilities that may arise against the Directors collectively or individually.
The Directors do not benefit from any form of qualifying third party indemnities made by the Company.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, a Clinical Governance Committee and a Nominations Committee.
Further details in relation to these Committees are set out on pages 63 to 73.
The terms of reference of each committee are available on our website at www.
Board and Board Committee attendance in the 2013 financial year During the period under review, the Board met on nine occasions: six of these meetings were scheduled as full periodic board meetings and three meetings were either brief meetings on matters requiring board approval or ad-hoc matters which arise.
Scheduled periodic Board Meetings are planned in each financial year to be split, where possible, evenly between London and Abu Dhabi.
61 The attendance of the Directors at each of the Board and Committee meetings during the period was as follows: Director Board Audit Remuneration Clinical meetings Committee Committee Governance note Committee Mr H. J.
Mark Tompkins 8 9 3 3 3 3 2 2 H. E. Saeed Bin Butti 0 9 - - - Mr Khalifa Bin Butti 6 9 - - - Dr B. R. Shetty 9 9 - - - Mr Jonathan Bomford 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 Lord Clanwilliam 9 9 4 4 3 3 1 2 Mrs Heather Lawrence 9 9 4 4 3 3 2 2 Mr Justin Jewitt 5 5 2 2 2 2 1 1 Mr Keyur Nagori Alternate 3 5 - - - Director to H. E. Saeed Bin Butti Note: The number of meetings that each director could have attended during the period under review is noted in brackets.
The Nominations Committee did not meet during the year.
During 2013, given his other commitments, H. E. Saeed Bin Butti was not able to attend any of the board meetings held.
His Excellency kept up to date with key matters relating to the Group outside of the formal Board Meeting environment through meetings with other board directors.
His valuable time commitment to the Board and the Group, and fulfilment of his duties as a Director of the Company, were provided in this way.
Given his other commitments, during the year His Excellency decided to appoint an alternate, Mr Keyur Nagori, who attended the majority of the Board Meetings held since his appointment in June 2013.
Mr Nagori also attended a number of Board Meetings as an invited attendee before his formal appointment as an alternate director.
His Excellency contributed to the Board process and to the effectiveness of the formal Board process, through his alternate.
On 24 February 2014, H. E. Saeed resigned as a Director of the Company and nominated Mr. Abdulrahman Basaddiq to be appointed as a Director.
The Broad approved his nomination on 24 February 2014.
62 Audit Committee report o Audit Committee Chairman foreword This is the first Audit Committee report since my appointment as Audit Committee Chairman.
Following my appointment in June 2013, my induction process included elements specifically connected to financial and key risks matters, which are increasingly important in the Governance environment.
2013 has seen significant changes in various aspects of UK listed company reporting requirements, and I am pleased to report that both management and the audit committee have been committed to ensuring that they have a good understanding of these new requirements.
This report sets out the work of the Committee, significant matters addressed by the Committee during the year and the responsibilities of, and work undertaken by, the external and internal auditors.
o The Audit Committee Membership The Audit Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
The Audit Committee members who have served during the year are: Audit Committee Position Period of membership during 2013 Member Jonathan Bomford Audit Committee Member and Chairman of Audit Chairman and financial Committee from 27 June 2013 until end of expert the year Lord Clanwilliam Independent NonMember of Audit Committee throughout Executive Director the year Heather Lawrence Independent NonMember of Audit Committee throughout Executive Director the year H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent NonMember of Audit Committee from Executive Chairman beginning of the year until 14 December 2013 Justin Jewitt Previous Audit Committee Member and Chairman of Audit Chairman Committee from beginning of the year until 27 June 2013 During the 2013 financial year until 27 June 2013, there were no Chartered Accountants on the Audit Committee.
During this period, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Jewitt, and its members had general financial experience gained through their previous employment and board experience.
From 27 June 2013 to the date of this report, the new Chairman of the Committee and the Committees financial expert is Mr Jonathan Bomford.
Mr Bomford is a Chartered Accountant and his biographical details and experience are set out on page 48 of the annual report.
On 14 December 2013, Mr Tompkins resigned as a member of the Audit Committee.
Code provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance states that the Chairman of the Company should not be a member of the Audit Committee.
Following the Companys IPO in 2012, it was decided that it would be appropriate for all the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be members of the Audit Committee as the Group implemented new policies and procedures and enhanced its Corporate Governance environment.
Following the change of Audit Committee Chairman in June 2013, Mr Tompkins remained on the Committee to assist the new Committee Chairman during the transition period following his appointment, but in compliance with best practice as determined by the Code, Mr Tompkins has now resigned as a member of the Committee.
63 Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to ensure that the integrity of published financial information by the Company, and the effectiveness of both external and internal audit processes, are appropriate to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are protected.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in: discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audits and controls: reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Annual Report and audited financial statements: monitoring the independence and extent of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of external auditors and the level of their remuneration: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities and internal policies: Overseeing the Groups compliance processes: and Undertaking reviews of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is required to report regularly to the Board of Directors in relation to its findings on the above.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements and the half yearly reports remains with the Directors of the Company.
Committee meetings The Audit Committee met formally four times during the year, which will be the normal frequency in a given financial year unless otherwise as requested by any member of the Committee.
The Meetings are scheduled to align with the Groups reporting timetable with planning meetings in advance of both the half-year review and full-year audit, and approving meetings shortly in advance of the announcement of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Meetings are normally attended by the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Strategy and Investor Relations.
The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee also meets separately with the external auditors, the internal auditors and management with the other parties not present.
Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Committee has focussed significantly on areas of corporate governance and management of risk.
The listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange has required significant change management in the Group, in particular in the way that formal reporting is undertaken to the Board and the formal documented policies and procedures within the businesses.
The significant items which the Audit Committee focussed on and discussed during the year included: - The implementation plan for the new ERP financial accounting system.
The Group is in the process of implementing a new accounting IT system which is designed to ensure a less manual working environment than has previously been in existence when the Group was in private ownership.
Implementation of the new system commenced in 2013, but completion will now be delayed following managements decision to switch from instant Go-live to a phased roll-out of the new IT system, to enable full testing and the integration of the new Oracle version..
The revised implementation plan for the roll-out of the new system was reviewed by Internal Audit who found that there are no material concerns in relation to the implementation of the new system.
The new financial system 64 is in the process of being rolled out into the Groups operations and will be fully functional by the end of H1, 2014.
- Revenue recognition The Group has a number of revenue streams across both its Healthcare and Distribution businesses.
Whilst the Group ordinarily acts as principal in relation to its sales, there are a number of areas within both businesses where the recognition of revenue has been reviewed to ensure that the correct treatment of principal versus agency revenue has been adopted in all business areas.
There is a risk that incorrect accounting treatment could be adopted within a particularly business unit, for example agency revenue being treated as principal revenue.
Any error of this nature would affect the Revenue and not the EBITDA of the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the different treatment adopted by management in each relevant business unit and is comfortable with the accounting for revenue across the Group.
- Trade receivables and other receivables The time taken for payers to settle invoices in the UAE is generally longer than would normally be expected in other parts of the world.
In addition, within the Healthcare division, the vast majority of healthcare customers settle their invoices through medical insurance claims.
The Group therefore experiences delays in payment as a result of the time taken to process claims through insurance companies and to arrange settlement of the claim.
In the distribution business, payment delays are experienced from bulk retail sales customers and delays in processing bulk discounts and rebates achieved from key customers have an additional effect on receivables and working capital.
The level of both trade and other receivables has been improving following a number of actions undertaken by management, but this will continue to be a key focus for the audit committee particularly to ensure that adequate bad debt provisioning is made.
- The internal audit programme - this was designed to review areas of the business which the Committee determined to be of the highest risk to the Groups operations, and the mitigation of those risks.
The internal audit programme is working well and importantly, has been helpful to both the Committee and to management.
Due to the Groups stage of development, the internal audit plan has to date been partly transaction based, rather than wholly strategic based.
From 2014 onwards the internal audit plan will be strategic risk based to ensure that those areas of key and strategic risks are more closely and independently monitored.
This transition of methodology will be closely monitored during 2014.
- The implementation of new reporting and additional corporate governance requirements.
Having prepared the Companys inaugural annual report as a listed company for the 2012 financial year, the implementation of so many new regulations and governance provisions after just one year as a listed company, and after a period of significant governance change throughout the Group, has been a challenge which the Audit Committee and the Board wished to prepare for.
Members of the Audit Committee, the CFO and the Group Company Secretary have all attended seminars and met with advisers to consider to effect of the new environment on the Groups governance environment and on the 2013 annual report.
The Board have also received a comprehensive pack of all documents making up the governance framework with which the Group should comply, as well as attended a presentation on the same from the external auditors.
During the 2014 financial year, the Audit Committee is intending to continue to closely monitor the roll-out of the Groups new financial system, which the Committee sees as the one key element of the Groups future internal control environment.
o Internal control The Committee has reviewed the process by which the Group evaluates its control environment.
The CFO provides a report each year to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and confirms to the Committee whether or not he is aware of any significant fraud that may have occurred within the business.
The internal auditors also undertake a review across a 65 wide range of control areas to give the Audit Committee and the Board assurance on the internal control environment.
o Risk Management The risk management process is primarily driven by scrutiny of the register of significant risks which is retained and reviewed by management and the Internal Auditors.
This risk register, which is produced in discussions with the Groups operating facilities, is the basis for the list of principal risks and uncertainties which are set out on pages 31 to 34.
Whilst the Internal Auditors already focus on areas of key risks identified by the business, the risk management of the Group, and the maintenance of the register of significant risks, will be enhanced further by the change in methodology of the Internal Audit Programme which, as outlined above, will be a more strategic risk based approach from 2014. o Internal audit A review of the work undertaken by the Groups internal auditors is an agenda item for each Audit Committee meeting.
The internal auditors report to the Committee their findings together with action plans to resolve any matters which they believe require to be addressed.
The action plans are graded with key high risk matters taking priority to be resolved.
o External audit and auditor independence The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the external audit is dependent on the identification of key risks during the financial year under review.
Ernst & Young LLP hereinafter referred to as EY produces and discusses with the Committee a detailed audit plan identifying these key risks and the work to be done to test managements assumptions and accounting treatment in these areas.
The Committee meets separately with the External Auditors to ensure that an independent dialogue is maintained in relation to monitoring key business and financial risks and to ensure that management have not restricted the scope of their audit.
The Audit Committee Chairman also meets with the lead audit partner on a number of occasions during the year outside the formality of Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee discusses separately with management matters arising from the audit process and also to assess their view of the effectiveness of the audit work being undertaken.
The Committee has not undertaken a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit, although discussions were held at the June 2013 Audit Committee meeting where a review of any FY2012 audit recommendations was undertaken.
The audit in relation to the 2012 financial year was the Companys first as a listed company and management and the external auditors discussed the audit process, including matters which had worked well and areas of improvement in audit process for FY2013.
The Committee believes that it will be appropriate to undertake a formal review of the effectiveness of the external audit following the Companys second audit as a listed Company, which has just completed.
This review will be undertaken in advance of the interim review for FY2014.
Auditor fees and appointment EY were appointed as auditor to the Company at the time of the Companys IPO in April 2012.
As reported in the 2012 Corporate Governance Report, the Company agreed a basis for audit fees for the three year period of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and agreed that, subject to their annual re-appointment by shareholders, EY would remain as Auditors to the Group for those financial years.
The level of audit fees paid in relation to the 2013 financial year is set out in note 125 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Committee has considered further its intentions in relation to the tender of the provision of external audit services following a review of new guidance in the year.
Having considered 66 this guidance the Committee believes that the earliest that a tender for the provision of external audit service is likely to be undertaken will be subsequent to the 2015 financial year end audit.
Non-Audit fees During FY2013, the level of non-audit fees, excluding the fees for the half-year review, amounted to a total of US$ 0.1m.
This figure is much reduced from FY2012, as the amount in that year included US$4.9m paid to EY, or its associate firm in the UAE, in relation to fees for their role as Reporting Accountants in relation to the Companys IPO.
The FY2013 nonaudit fees were paid to EY, or its associate firm in the UAE, in relation to a number of oneoff projects in assisting the NMC finance team with a number of business process related matters and for tax compliance services.
The Audit Committee believe that the level of nonaudit fees in 2013 were acceptable in the first full financial year following the Companys IPO.
The Audit Committee has adopted a non-audit fees policy whereby it will only permit such fees in circumstances where they feel that use of the Auditor firm is necessary, appropriate or efficient, and has delegated authority to the CFO to agree such projects subject to a strict cap on fees in relation to each financial year.
Auditor Independence The Audit Committee formally reviewed the independence of the Companys auditor, EY, during the period under review.
The review took account of the relationship between management and the audit team, the processes that EY have in place internally to ensure objectivity and independence and also the level of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
As part of this review the Committee reviewed the potential threats to auditor independence as a result of: - auditor self-interests, being those areas where the auditor may have a financial or other interest in the Company: - auditor self-review, being areas where the results of non-audit services are reflected in the amounts included or disclosed in the financial statements: - management threats, which may occur if partners or employees of the auditor take decision on behalf of management: and - Other threats, such as familiarity and intimidation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that in all areas sufficient safeguards were adopted by the auditor and that the independence of EY and of the audit engagement partner had not been compromised.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of the Auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements.
Jonathan Bomford, FCA On behalf of the Audit Committee 67 Clinical Governance Committee The Clinical Governance Committee was established by the Board in June 2013 to provide assurance to shareholders that the key operational risks of the business are considered by a Committee of the Board and to ensure that the key risk of clinical care and quality associated with the Groups healthcare business is independently monitored.
The Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the period under review.
The Clinical Governance Committee members who have served during the year are: Clinical Position Period of membership during 2013 Governance Committee Member Heather Lawrence Clinical Governance Member and Chair of Clinical Governance Committee Chair Committee since its establishment Lord Clanwilliam Independent NonMember of Clinical Governance Executive Director Committee since its establishment H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent NonMember of Clinical Governance Executive Chairman Committee since its establishment Jonathan Bomford Independent NonMember of Clinical Governance Executive Director Committee from 27 June 2013 until the end of the year Justin Jewitt Previous Independent Member of Clinical Governance Non-Executive Director Committee from its establishment until 27 June 2013 Meetings of the Committee will be scheduled for three times per financial year.
In addition to the Clinical Governance Committee members, the Group Medical Director, Chief Operating Officer and Vice President Quality and Standards attend each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
o Key role and responsibilities The key role of the Committee is to oversee governance structures, processes and controls in place within the Group healthcare operations.
This is to ensure that the risks associated with clinical care are mitigated in the interests of the Company and its stakeholders, including shareholders.
Specific responsibilities of the Committee include: - Ensuring processes and controls are in place across the NMC Healthcare hospitals to promote safety and excellence in patient care and manage risks arising from clinical care on a continuing basis: - Review the systems of clinical governance, monitoring that they operate effectively and that action is being taken to address any areas of concern: - Review clinical performance indicators quarterly to gain assurance: and - Review compliance to local Health Authority requirements and standards.
The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee was undertaken as a result of an appreciation of the clinical risks faced by the Group.
As a result the Committee is a key aspect of the Groups internal control environment.
The Chair of each of the Audit Committee and the Clinical Governance Committee therefore intend during 2014 to consider the ways in which the two committees interact providing an overall control and governance framework to manage the Groups key risks.
Heather Lawrence, OBE For and on behalf of the Clinical Governance Committee 68 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, its membership and its role and responsibilities, is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 98.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee has consisted entirely of independent non-executive directors during the year under review.
The Nominations Committee members who have served during the year are: Nominations Position Period of membership during 2013 Committee Member H. J.
Mark Tompkins Nominations Committee Member and Chairman of Nominations Chairman throughout the year Lord Clanwilliam Independent NonMember of Nominations Committee Executive Director throughout the year Heather Lawrence Independent NonMember of Nominations Committee Executive Director throughout the year Jonathan Bomford Independent NonMember of Nominations Committee from Executive Director 27 June 2013 until the end of the year Justin Jewitt Previous Audit Committee Member of Nominations Committee from Chairman beginning of the year until 27 June 2013 The Nominations Committee has a role to assist the Board in: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to its structure, size and composition: reviewing succession planning in place for senior management: determining the appropriate skills and characteristics required of directors: identifying individuals qualified to become Board members and recommending such individuals to the Board: recommending individuals to be considered for election as Directors at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or to fill vacancies: and preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee will also undertake annual reviews of the composition of the Board and assess various attributes of each Board member, including reviewing annually the time required from a nonexecutive director and assesses whether he or she contributes effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Nominations Committee did not meet during 2013 but did meet early in 2014.
A full senior management succession planning process is underway and the Committee met to consider this process and to ensure that a rigorous succession plan is being implemented.
The Committee will meet further in 2014 to review progress on the succession planning implementation as well as the results of a board appraisal and any effect the results of that appraisal has on the structure of the Board.
Other than in relation to specific matters which the Nominations Committee will be required to discuss, it is expected that the Nominations Committee will meet at least once in each financial year, or otherwise as requested by any member of the Committee.
The Committee would expect to meet to consider appropriate candidates to fill any vacancy created on the Board should such a vacancy arise or be considered appropriate given other skills and experience on the Board.
The duties and activities of the Committee during the year will be disclosed in the Companys Annual Report and audited financial statements each year.
69 Shareholder engagement The Company is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders and to be available to meet with shareholders who require additional explanation of any matter which is of concern to them.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are also available, either through contacting the Company Secretary or at the Companys Annual General Meeting, to discuss any matters within their areas of responsibility or where individuals do not feel it is possible to discuss these matters with management.
During 2013, the Company has increased its formal program of investor interaction including one-toone meetings with institutional investors, investor days and attendance at investor conferences.
As part of this increasing shareholder interaction, the Company appointed a full time executive during 2013, Mr Roy Cherry as Head of strategy and Investor Relations.
In relation to the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company issued its half year unaudited results, two interim management statements and a pre-close trading update prior to entering the close period at the end of each of the half year and full year periods.
Aside from direct shareholder meetings, the principal ongoing communication with shareholders will be through the publication of the Companys Annual report and audited financial statements, Interim Results and Interim Management Statements, together with the opportunity to question the Board and Committees at the AGM.
Financial Results presentations are made available on the Companys Investor Relations website.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and if unable to do so are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Chairman and other board members meet regularly with the Companys brokers and or other healthcare sector specialists to remain up to date with shareholder views and sector developments.
The Chairman has also met with, or spoken to, a number of the Companys principal shareholders and discussed with them their views on the Company.
The Company has an investor relations section on its corporate website, www.
This has been, and will continue to be, updated regularly with information that the Company considers relevant to its investors.
Additionally, the Company continues to communicate with the market in respect of the Groups performance and prospects through the release of appropriate press announcements and other updates.
Internal Control and risk management Financial and operational reporting The Group has for nearly 40 years grown into a substantial business and a leader in the provision of private healthcare, as well as operating a substantial distribution business, in the United Arab Emirates.
The Group is a regulated business operating many clinical and quality controls processes.
Not unusually for a Group which was until recently a private business, whilst the financial and operational performance was monitored closely by the senior management team prior to IPO, formal written policies and governance procedures were not what might have been expected of a Company listed on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
As reported in the 2012 Corporate Governance report, the management team, with the support of the Audit Committee, has been progressively incorporating additional key internal controls into its financial and operational processes as part of an overall process to improve the Governance structure within the Group and to improve the Groups formal internal control processes.
The internal control environment has improved further in the year with: The implementation of new policies and procedures covering all aspects of the Groups accounting policies and controls: and The Groups internal audit function being in place for a full financial year.
70 Other than items connected with the implementation of the Groups new financial accounting system which is now due to be implemented in H1, 2014, all financial reporting procedures recommendations made at the time of the Companys IPO have been implemented.
The key elements of the Groups internal controls are as follows: - An annual budget and updated long-term forecasts for the Group that identifies risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
- A monthly executive meeting at which the senior management team review Group financial and operational performance, progress on capital projects and other principal functional areas of the business.
- A system of internal monthly operational and financial reporting which includes monthly comparison of results and against budget and forecast, a review of KPIs, each discussed with additional management commentary and the reporting of key matters arising within the business during the month under review.
The Group has a very flat organisational hierarchy resulting in an easy flow of information throughout the organisation structure.
Communication of exceptional items happens naturally.
- A defined process for controlling capital expenditure, including appropriate authorisation levels, which is monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate.
- Medical Directors meetings to monitor clinical governance procedures.
- The establishment of the Clinical Governance Committee at which the Committee, on behalf of the Board, independently review performance against a range of key KPIs based on clinical quality and safety metrics, and thus acts as mitigation against clinical risks.
- An effective independent internal audit program which independently assists management in identifying key risks to the Group and monitors those risks through a program agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
- An appropriate approach to decentralisation within the Group.
Each healthcare facility has a Medical Director and Head of Administration who are accountable for the operation of the facility.
Both Healthcare and Distribution divisions are managed through fundamental activities of planning, executing and checking.
The strategic direction of all operations is governed by the corporate office.
All banking, treasury and payment processing is centralised in the Group finance function but accounting for payments is decentralised.
The management team believes that these divisions of responsibility provide a natural check and balance across all internal control areas.
- The delegation of authority provides that very few individuals within the organisation have payment approval authority.
Access to cash is also restricted to very few individuals.
All material payments are restricted to the senior management team.
Risk appetite The Senior Management Team and the Board have considered their business approach to risk.
The Board acknowledges that elements of risk are inherent within all business operations and that the Groups approach should be to encourage the exploitation by management of appropriate profitable business opportunities but through controlled and disciplined business and financial activities.
The Healthcare division operates a zero tolerance policy to the taking of risk in relation to clinical and safety matters.
The Group operates in an emerging market which means that, by definition, the natural risk profile of the Groups business and financial operations is moderate to high.
The Boards approach in reviewing the Groups operations is to ensure that this natural risk profile is not increased above this level.
The Boards governance and risk mitigation processes are set and operated accordingly.
71 Approach to risk mitigation As a regulated business, the Group operates within a framework of managing all elements of risk which arise within the Group.
As a result there are a number of ways in which the Company monitors its keys risks.
In 2012, the Company appointed Crowe Horwath as Internal Auditors to the Group.
The Internal Auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee but work in conjunction with the CFO.
Their initial reports to the Audit Committee are received and discussed at Audit Committee meetings twice a year, in June and December.
The significant risks faced by the Group were reviewed prior to the Companys IPO and again by the Internal Auditors in conjunction with management towards the end of 2013.
The work undertaken by the Internal Auditors, alongside the improvements undertaken in the formal documenting of policies and procedures and the current implementation of new IT systems, are the main focus of the Audit Committee as it seeks to improve the mitigation of risks associated with the Groups internal control environment.
The key strategic and business risks faced by the Group, the potential effect and the mitigation of those risks, are set out on pages 31 to 34.
The consideration by the management team of the key risks faced by the Group is crucial to the work which will be undertaken by the Internal Auditors during 2014.
The internal auditors have discussed with management, and have obtained agreement of the Audit Committee, their planned areas of focus during the coming financial year.
Following the completion of each review, the internal auditors identify areas for remedial action and the required action plans are discussed and agreed with management.
The internal auditors present the reviews and the agreed management plans for any remedies to the Audit Committee and then monitor the implementation of any required changes on behalf of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board on internal audit matters.
During the year, the Clinical Governance Committee was established.
Aside of financial risks, the Board is aware that as a significant healthcare business it is subject to a range of risks related to clinical care and quality.
The work of the Clinical Governance Committee, and how it fits into the Groups overall control environment and risk mitigation, is set out on page 68.
Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control, and on behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has been engaged in the process of ensuring that management have established continuous processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
These processes include the reporting from the finance department on Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems and for conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
A system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls in place during the year, the Audit Committee considered, amongst other matters, manual controls in place, the independence of the separate operating units, the delegation of authority, the balance of centralised and decentralised systems and the reporting process in relation to exceptional items.
72 The Audit Committee has noted that the Group does not operate under a fully integrated high end IT environment and therefore an element of manual intervention is prevalent within the Group.
The Board has approved the implementation of a new Hospital Management System which, together with the implementation of the new ERP financial system in the first half of 2014, will result in a new integrated IT system becoming fully functional during the 2014 financial year.
The Group continues to enhance its Internal Control practices and environment and as part of that progression have also implemented formal policies and procedures in relation to accounting policies and controls in 2013.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the 2013 financial year, in light of the key elements of the Groups internal controls outlined above.
Given the additional internal controls that have been incorporated into the Groups financial and operational reporting process, such that sufficient internal controls were in place to monitor the Groups key risks, the Board believes, having evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, that these were effective during the period covered by this report.
The Board also believes that the process undertaken by the Board and the Audit Committee to monitor the internal control environment, accords with the guidance provided in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Other governance matters Whistleblowing Policy A confidential whistleblowing procedure is in operation allow employees to raise concerns of possible improprieties in relation to either operational or financial conduct.
Employees have been provided with a copy of this policy and are aware of the significance of it.
New employees receive training on all company policies and procedures as part of their induction program.
A copy of the policy is included on the Companys employee intranet.
Bribery Act 2010 The Group has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy which applies to all directors and employees of all Group Companies.
The Policy, which has been communicated to all employees, includes clear statements setting out the Groups Anti-Bribery measures and Anti-Corruption culture.
Practical guidance has been issued in relation to specific circumstances considered to be most relevant to Group employees.
These include guidance notes for clinical staff attending pharmaceutical and training and development conferences in relation to entertainment and other possible inducements, as well as guidance notes in relation to the receipt of free products and equipment and how such products and incentives may affect clinical judgement.
Specific guidance has also been provided in relation to the provision of sales incentives to senior sales and marketing staff within our Distribution division.
The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 56 to 73 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: H. J.
