Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 69 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Non-audit work under the policy: The Companys policy is that in certain limited areas it is in the Companys and its shareholders interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services.
To protect auditor objectivity and independence, the provision of any non-audit services provided by the external auditors requires prior approval for non-audit work as set out in the table.
Approval thresholds for non-audit work Approver Over 10,000 and up to 30,000 per engagement Chief Financial Officer Over 30,000 and up to 100,000 per engagement Chief Financial Officer and Audit Committee Chairman Greater than 100,000 per engagement, or if If the value of non-audit fees to audit fees reaches a ratio of 1:2 as a result of a new Audit Committee engagement, any engagement regardless of value Certain types of non-audit service are of sufficiently low risk as not to require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, whereas others are of such high risk as to be prohibited in all circumstances.
Low risk activities are the audit-related services which are generally of an assurance nature for example, review of interim financial information.
The prohibited services are those that have the potential to conflict directly with the auditor role, such as the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
Non-audit work undertaken during the period: The significant non-audit work undertaken by PwC during the period included assurance work on the Groups carbon disclosures, advisory work on the Morrisons agreement and review of the Groups half-year accounts.
The detail is set out in note 2.1.
3 of the consolidated financial statements on page 127.
The total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid to PwC during the period is set out in the table below.
The Audit Committee received a regular report from management regarding the extent of non-audit services performed by PwC.
PwC also provided a report to the Audit Committee on the specific safeguards put in place for each piece of non-audit work confirming that it was satisfied that neither the extent of the non-audit services provided nor the size of the fees charged had any impact on its independence as statutory auditors.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the quantum of the non-audit fees relative to the audit fees together with the other measures taken by the Company and the auditors meant that the auditors independence from the Group was not compromised.
2013 2012 Percentage change 2012 to 2013 % Audit fees 183,000 172,000 6.4% Audit related services 26,000 3.8% 27,000 Non-audit fees not including audit related services 40,000 49,000 18.4% Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit fees 21.9% 28.5% Audit fees: The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of audit fees payable in respect of the audit services provided was appropriate and that an effective audit could be conducted for such a fee.
The Audit Committee compared the proposed fees with the prior years fees in drawing this conclusion, noting the increase in fee was mostly attributable to the increased complexity of the Group following the Morrisons agreement.
The existing authority for the Directors including the Audit Committee to determine the current remuneration of the external auditors, as noted above, is derived from the shareholder approval granted at the Companys annual general meeting in 2013.
At the annual general meeting in 2013, 99.96% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of granting the Company this authority.
Tendering external audit contract: The 2012 Code requires that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
As PwC has audited the Groups accounts since 2001 and has not re-tendered for the contract since then, the Audit Committee considered whether the audit should be put out to tender.
Given that the Company became a listed company following its IPO in 2010, that the audit engagement partner had changed in 2012, and that the Audit Committee remained satisfied with the independence and effectiveness of PwC, it decided not to recommend a re-tender at this time.
Recommendation to reappoint: Following its consideration, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC.
The Board has accepted this recommendation and a resolution for its reappointment for a further year will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
At the annual general meeting in 2013, 99.91% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of reappointing PwC as auditors.
com Stock Code: OCDO Nomination Committee Report In light of the various changes to the make-up of the Board, we took the opportunity to review the composition of the Board Committees.
Dear Shareholder, A significant change to the leadership of the Board was made during the period.
Following Lord Grades announcement of his intention to retire, Sir Stuart Rose was appointed as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate.
Sir Stuart took over as Chairman at the Companys annual general meeting on 10 May 2013, when Lord Grades retirement became effective.
In addition, Wendy Becker left the Board in January 2013 following her appointment to a new executive position at Jack Wills Limited.
These Director changes saw the Board reduce from 13 to 12 Directors.
In light of the various changes to the make-up of the Board, we took the opportunity to review the composition of the Board committees and made various changes, outlined below.
Given Jason Gissings retirement from the Board effective at the AGM, the Nomination Committee discussed, following year-end, the succession plans and again reviewed Board composition.
Further details on the Nomination Committees work are set out in the following report.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Nomination Committee.
David Grigson Chairman of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings The membership of the Nomination Committee together with the appointment dates, is set out below: Nomination Committee Member member since David Grigson Chairman 9 March 2010 Robert Gorrie 9 March 2010 Jrn Rausing 9 March 2010 Ruth Anderson 9 March 2010 Douglas McCallum 3 October 2011 Alex Mahon 1 June 2012 Sir Stuart Rose 11 March 2013 The composition of the Nomination Committee changed with: i the resignation of Wendy Becker in January 2013: ii the appointment of Sir Stuart Rose as Chairman Designate in March 2013: and iii the resignation of Lord Grade in May 2013.
The appointments of David Grigson, Robert Gorrie, Jrn Rausing and Ruth Anderson were renewed for a further three-year period in early 2013.
The biography of each member of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 54 to 55.
Other attendees at the Nomination Committee meetings include: Regular Attend as Attendees attendee required Chief Executive Officer x Director of Human Resources x Deputy Company Secretary x Attendance by members at the meetings is shown on page 64.
