Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 65 Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued interests and or other duties, except in the case of an Executive Director who holds the position of Director of the Company and director of a number of Group subsidiary companies or except, in one instance, a Director whose spouse is a director of a company that has been supplying services to the Company since before that Directors appointment.
Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may arise.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Director insurance and indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its Directors and officers as permitted under the Companys Articles and the Companies Act.
Such insurance policies were renewed during the period and remain in force.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director which contains provisions that are permitted by the director liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
An indemnity deed is usually entered into by a Director at the time of his or her appointment to the Board.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act were in force during the period and remain in force for the benefit of the Directors and any officer of the Company or of any associated company.
Shareholder relations Investor relations The Company keeps shareholders informed of its strategy and progress.
The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional shareholders who, along with analysts, are also invited to presentations by the Company after the announcement of the Companys results.
The Board regularly receives feedback from the Companys brokers and the Executive Directors on the views of major shareholders and the investor relations programme and also receives reports at Board meetings on the main changes to the composition of the Companys share register.
Jrn Rausing is also a beneficiary of the Apple II Trust, one of the Companys largest shareholders.
Sir Stuart Rose, the Chairman, and David Grigson, the Senior Independent Director, are available to the Companys shareholders for discussions.
During the period, the Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with the Companys largest shareholders with regards to specific Director remuneration topics.
The shareholder consultation matters are described in the Directors remuneration report on page 77.
All shareholders can access the annual report, trading statements, investor presentations and regular announcements on the Companys corporate website www.
All shareholders can choose to receive an annual report in paper or electronic form.
Formal reporting to shareholders The Company reports to its shareholders in a number of ways including formal regulatory news service announcements in accordance with the Companys reporting obligations, interim management statements of quarterly sales performance published in March and September each year, the preliminary announcement of annual results, the annual report and the half-year report, and investor presentations slides and videos.
The Company makes the documents and other information concerning the Company available on its corporate website, www.
The Directors take responsibility for preparing this Annual Report.
The statement of Directors responsibility on page 113 of this Annual Report is made at the conclusion of a robust and effective process undertaken by the Company for the preparation and review of the Annual Report.
The Directors believe that these well established arrangements, which involve the Audit Committee, enable them to ensure that the information presented in this Annual Report complies with the disclosure requirements in the Companies Act and is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In addition to this Annual Report, the Companys internal processes cover to the extent necessary the half-year report, interim management statements and other financial reporting.
The Companys internal processes in the preparation and review of this Annual Report and other financial reporting include but are not limited to : 1 review of iterations of the Annual Report by the Executive Directors and the full Board: 2 focused review of specific sections of the Annual Report by the relevant Board committees: 3 Audit Committee review of a management report on accounting estimates and judgements and auditor reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting matters and management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting matters: 4 Audit Committee regularly reporting to the Board on the discharge of its responsibilities: 5 input from both internal and external legal advisers and other experts to cover relevant regulatory and governance obligations: 6 discussions between contributors and management to identify relevant and material information: 7 detailed debates and discussions concerning the principal risks and uncertainties: 8 review and approval by the external auditors: and 9 separate approval by the Director of Legal and Business Affairs, the Board committees and the Board.
Share capital, voting rights and significant shareholders Details concerning the Companys share capital, significant shareholders, special rights, voting rights and other matters required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2 are set out in the Directors report on pages 108 to 113.
The Companys Annual General Meeting Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question all of the Directors at the AGM, which will be held at 3pm on 7 May 2014 at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY.
A detailed explanation of each item of business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to the shareholders before the AGM.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting, either online at www.
com or by using the proxy card which will be sent with the Notice of Meeting if sent by post or can be downloaded at www.
At last years annual general meeting, all resolutions were passed with votes in support ranging from 76.54% to 100%.
com Stock Code: OCDO Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee plays an important role in supporting the Board to ensure that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Dear Shareholder, In the year when the Company completed the financially significant Morrisons agreement, a key focus for the Audit Committee was assessing the impact on the reporting of the Groups financial position and performance and the associated accounting issues.
This report also sets out the other significant accounting judgements and estimates which we considered, together with details of our review of risk management.
We place great importance on the quality, integrity and independence of the external auditors,  LLP, and took steps to satisfy ourselves that high standards were achieved, including evaluating their performance by seeking feedback from senior management as well as the Audit Committee members.
We are satisfied that we can recommend then for reappointment for the forthcoming year.
Before making this recommendation we specifically considered the changing regulatory position with regard to the retention of audit firms, but concluded that this was not the right time to tender the external audit contract.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
Ruth Anderson Audit Committee Chairman How the Audit Committee works Membership and meetings The membership of the Audit Committee together with the appointment dates, is set out below: Audit Committee Member member since Ruth Anderson Chairman 9 March 2010 David Grigson 9 March 2010 Alex Mahon 1 June 2012 The composition of the Audit Committee changed during the period with Robert Gorrie standing down from the Audit Committee in February 2013.
The appointments of Ruth Anderson and David Grigson were renewed for a further three-year period in early 2013.
The 2012 Code requires at least one member of the Audit Committee to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Two members of the Audit Committee Ruth Anderson and David Grigson are considered by the Board to have competence in accounting and or auditing and recent and relevant financial experience.
Both have professional qualifications with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
The biography of each member of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 54 to 55.
Other attendees at the Audit Committee meetings include: Regular Attend as Attendees attendee required Chief Financial Officer x Legal and Business Affairs Director x Director of Finance and Risk x Deputy Company Secretary x Head of Risk Management x External auditors x Senior members of the finance department x Other advisers to the Company x Attendance by members at the meetings is shown on page 64.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 67 Governance Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee As set out in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is primarily responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the financial reporting process, and in particular assisting the Board ensure this Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control and risk management systems: reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring the conduct of the audit: reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors and monitoring the Companys policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services: monitoring the need for an internal audit function: ensuring that the external audit contract is put out to tender at least every ten years and overseeing the selection process where applicable: and recommending to the Board a resolution to be put to the shareholders of the Company on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
What the Audit Committee focused on during 2013 The Audit Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Audit Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to any matters that arise during the year.
The main matters that the Audit Committee considered during the year are described below.
Financial statements and reporting:The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed this Annual Report, as well as the half-year report and accounts.
The Audit Committee monitored the financial reporting processes for the Group, which included receiving audit and review reports from, and discussing these with, the external auditors, PwC.
For the process followed by the Company in preparing this Annual Report see page 65 of the Statement of corporate governance.
As part of the year-end reporting process the Audit Committee reviewed a management report on accounting estimates and judgements, auditor reports on internal controls, accounting and reporting matters and management representation letter concerning accounting and reporting matters.
Accounting judgements and issues: The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed reports from management on significant accounting issues and treatments in relation to this Annual Report which also included the auditors views.
The Audit Committee sought to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions and or judgements underlying the significant accounting issues.
The Audit Committee considers that the Company has adopted appropriate accounting policies and, where required, made appropriate estimates and judgements.
In connection with the Class 1 circular for approval by the shareholders of the Morrisons agreement, the Board reviewed its working capital position.
The Audit Committee considered, for these purposes, management reports and a report from KPMG LLP to the Committee on the impact of the Morrisons agreement on the Groups forecast profit and loss and cash flow statement.
The circular contained financial information including an unaudited pro forma statement of the net assets of the Group showing the effect of the arrangements.
The Audit Committee received a report from management on, and discussed, the anticipated impact on the material line items of the Companys consolidated financial statements of the agreement.
The significant issues in relation to the financial statements are summarised in the table below, with those issues impacted by the Morrisons agreement marked by an asterisk.
Area Issue How addressed Exceptional items Whether certain matters were outside the ordinary course of A management report identified certain set-up costs associated with CFC2 and the NFDC, professional fees for business and so properly disclosed as exceptional items.
the Morrisons agreement and the accelerated amortisation of prepaid arrangement fees following the repayment of the 100 million loan facility, see note 2.1.
It was agreed that these costs were outside the normal course of business and so it was appropriate that they are treated as a separate line item in the income statement.
Estimates used to support the amount of recognised deferred A management report explained the basis of the estimates of the future taxable profits of the Group and the Deferred tax assets tax asset.
process used to calculate the recognised deferred tax asset, see note 2.2 on page 129.
Whether the impact of the Groups agreement with Morrisons A review was completed applying the tests in the accounting standard IFRS 8 and this concluded that Segmental reporting requires a separate segment disclosure.
segmental disclosure was not required for 2013 on grounds of materiality.
The capitalisation of costs relating to the development of A separate paper was considered by the Audit Committee on the policy and underlying processes for Capitalisation of software is material and involves management judgements.
capitalising certain staff costs relating to the development of software for the business.
software Supplier media income is a material sum which is subject to a During the year the Audit Committee was updated on the process to make judgements on supplier media Supplier income or degree of judgement due to the length of some contracts.
At the end of the year the level of accruals for supplier rebates was reviewed and it was commercial income agreed that this was appropriate.
New leases resulting from the sale to and leaseback from The principal characteristics of each lease were considered to determine the basis for treatment as an operating Lease recognition Morrisons of the land and buildings and from MHE JV Co for or finance lease.
The MHE lease meets the definition of finance lease and is classified within leased assets on the MHE had to be classified as an operating or a finance lease.
the balance sheet, see note 4.1 on page 140.
The lease of the land and buildings is treated as an operating lease.
Whether the jointly owned entity, MHE JV Co, was to be The appropriate accounting treatment of Ocado Limiteds 50% shareholding in MHE JV Co was considered and Joint arrangements accounted for as a joint venture or a joint operation.
it was agreed that it should be accounted for as a joint venture under accounting standards using the equity method, see note 3.4 on page 136 The means for recognising the initial contract revenues A management paper considered the terms of the Morrisons agreement and the amendments to the Groups Revenue recognition received from Morrisons.
accounting policies that were required to reflect the new sources of revenue.
The revenue from the initial contract will be recognised over a five year period to match the amortisation of technology assets.
The annual contract revenues will be recognised as income in the relevant period.
com Stock Code: OCDO Audit Committee Report continued The accounting treatment of all significant issues and judgements was subject to review by the external auditors.
For further information on the critical accounting estimates and assumptions refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 125.
For a discussion of the areas of particular audit focus by the auditors, refer to page 117 of the Independent Auditors report.
The financial impact of the Morrisons agreement on the Group is described on page 25.
Internal audit and governance review: The Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
As part of its review of risk management, the Audit Committee considered the need for an internal audit function, and concluded that, given the Groups current stage of development and existing monitoring and internal control measures, it was not yet necessary.
The Audit Committee concluded that the assurance measures in place remained sufficient.
The Audit Committee gained its assurance from reports from management and from reports provided by the external auditors with regard to internal control and risk management.
The Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendation not to establish an internal audit function at this time.
In light of Audit Committee discussions, management has sought some additional assurance around the Groups existing control environment and governance framework.
The Company engaged KPMG LLP, an external consultant, to carry out a broad-ranging review of the effectiveness of the Groups governance and risk management framework.
The purpose of the review was to assess the Groups governance framework against market practice for listed companies in the context of a business that is growing rapidly and given the Groups plans for future expansion.
In early 2014, KPMG LLP reported to the Company on the results of its review and management intends to implement the key recommendations.
Internal controls and risk management: The Companys internal control and risk management systems are described in more detail on page 45, where the Audit Committees work in this area is highlighted.
An annual review of the effectiveness of risk management processes was carried out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee focused its reviews on the Companys risk mitigation and controls and the strategic and organisation-wide risks facing the Group.
Going concern assessment: The Audit Committee and the Board reviewed the going concern basis for preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements including in particular the assumptions underlying the going concern statement.
As a consequence of the Morrisons agreement which completed after the half-year, the Companys 100 million debt facility was repaid in full and accordingly the going concern assessment for the full year was simplified.
For further information concerning going concern see the Independent Auditors report on page 117, the Directors report on page 112 and the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 125.
Other matters considered by the Audit Committee: The Audit Committee also considered the Companys existing tax strategy and concluded that managements current approach to tax management remained appropriate.
Interaction with the Board: The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports at each subsequent Board meeting on the business of the Audit Committee meeting and the recommendations made by the Audit Committee.
Annual review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, discussed on page 63, the Audit Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference.
The terms of reference were expanded to reflect the Audit Committees increased responsibilities following the changes to the 2012 Code.
Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process The Audit Committees work during the period included oversight of the engagement of the external auditors, PwC.
Auditor oversight: The Audit Committees oversight of the external auditors includes reviewing and approving the annual audit plan to ensure that it is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
In reviewing the audit plan, the Audit Committee discussed and challenged the auditors assessment of materiality and the reasons for choosing forecast revenue as the benchmark.
This is fully explained in the audit opinion on pages 116 to 118.
The Audit Committee discussed and agreed those financial reporting risk areas identified by the auditors as most likely to give rise to a material error or perceived to be of higher risk, and therefore requiring additional audit emphasis.
The Audit Committee met with PwC at various stages during the audit process, including without management present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit.
Auditor reappointment overview: The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of PwC in line with the Companys policy on auditor appointment which was updated during the period in light of changes to the 2012 Code.
This review took into account the factors below.
Auditor effectiveness: The Audit Committee reviewed the performance of PwC based on a survey that contained various criteria for judging their effectiveness and on feedback from management.
The criteria for assessing the effectiveness of the audit included the robustness of the audit, the quality of the audit delivery and the quality of the people and service.
The Audit Committee also met with the finance department, including without the auditors present to hear their views on the effectiveness of the auditors.
The Audit Committee concluded that the performance of PwC remained effective.
Independence: The Companys policy requires the Company to consider a number of factors that may impact on auditor independence, including whether the skills and experience of the auditors make them the most suitable supplier, and whether there are appropriate safeguards in place.
PwC follows its own ethical guidelines and the Auditing Practices Boards standards.
It reported to the Audit Committee that it had considered its independence in relation to the audit and confirmed to the Audit Committee that it complies with UK regulatory and professional requirements and that its objectivity is not compromised.
