com Stock Code: OCDO Chairmans Governance Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining and improving appropriate structures and processes to support the effective management of a growing business.
Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Board, I am pleased to present the Companys Statement of corporate governance on behalf of the Board.
This report sets out the Companys governance policies and practices and includes details of how the Company applies the principles of the UK Corporate Governance the 2012 Code.
The concept of publicly listed companies necessarily creates distance between the owners of companies and their operators, and the obligation of the board of each company is to ensure that the values of that company and the system by which it is directed and controlled gives assurance to the owners and other stakeholders that strategy is set, risks are evaluated and operations are carried out knowledgeably, transparently and with accountability.
The 2012 Code sets out principles that provide guidance for achieving effective board behaviour.
However, the 2012 Code is not a rigid checklist that can or should be applied mechanically, as it expressly recognises through its comply or explain approach.
There are a number of provisions of the 2012 Code that I believe are so important that they are worth repeating here: The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the company.
The comply or explain approach is the trademark of corporate governance in the UK.
In providing an explanation of non-compliance, the company should aim to illustrate how its actual practices are consistent with the principle to which the particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and promote delivery of business objectives.
In their responses to explanations, shareholders should pay due regard to companies individual circumstances and bear in mind in particular the size and complexity of the company and the nature of the risks and challenges it faces.
The board and its committees should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The Board is committed to maintaining and improving appropriate structures and processes to support the effective management of a growing business.
Leadership and effectiveness This year an independent external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out by Independent Audit Limited.
A description of the exercise and outcomes is set out on page 63.
The Board recognises the importance of continual and constructive evaluation of its performance, and will continue to conduct annual performance reviews internally with external input at least every three years.
The Board believes that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving the Companys success.
Diversity is discussed in this report on page 61.
Relations with shareholders We are committed to maintaining an active dialogue with our shareholders.
Further details regarding engagement with our shareholders are set out on page 68.
David Grigson, the Senior Independent Director and I are available to the Companys shareholders for such dialogue.
Doug McCallum, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I consult annually with our major shareholders on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also maintain a regular dialogue with major shareholders.
Changes to the Board composition Lord Grade retired as Chairman at the Groups annual general meeting on 10 May 2013.
The Board would like to thank Lord Grade for his valued contribution to Ocado.
We are grateful for Lord Grades guidance and expertise during his six and a half years with Ocado and we wish him well in his retirement.
Non-Executive Director, Wendy Becker, left the Company on 21 January 2013 to take up an executive role at Jack Wills Limited.
Annual General Meeting I would like to encourage our shareholders to attend our Annual General Meeting which will be held at 3pm on 7 May 2014 at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY.
It provides an excellent opportunity to meet the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Sir Stuart Rose Chairman Ocado Group plc 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 57 Governance Chairmans Governance Introduction Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction The following sections explain how the Company applies the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, September 2012 issued by the Financial Reporting Council the 2012 Code, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and meets the relevant information provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
This Statement of corporate governance covers the following areas: the structure and role of the Board and its committees: the Boards effectiveness: relations with the Companys shareholders and the AGM: and the reports of the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out separately in the Directors remuneration report on page 73 to 75.
The Groups risk management and internal control framework and the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 44 to 47.
These sections form part of this Statement of corporate governance.
The Directors report on pages 108 to 113 also contains information required to be included in this Statement of corporate governance.
Compliance with the 2012 Code The Company has complied with the principles and provisions of the 2012 Code except where it has explained otherwise together with the reasons for, and period of, non compliance.
The Company aims to explain how its practices are consistent with the principle to which the particular provision relates, contribute to good governance and promote delivery of business objectives.
This separate Statement of corporate governance forms part of the Directors report and accordingly is approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board by its Legal and Business Affairs Director.
Certain parts of this Statement of corporate governance have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, PwC, for compliance with the 2012 Code, to the extent required.
Further information on the 2012 Code can be found at www.
Governance structure The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, monitoring the performance of the Group, governance and risk and control issues.
The Boards role The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
The Boards main responsibilities and the key actions carried out during the period are set out below.
The Board delegates certain matters to the Board Committees, and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors.
com Stock Code: OCDO Statement of Corporate Governance continued Board Responsibility Specific actions during period Setting and reviewing the Groups Annual strategy meeting devoted to reviewing Receiving reports from senior management on Overseeing and approving the Groups agreement and agreeing the Groups strategic direction and trading, business performance, financing and key long-term objectives with Morrisons.
and commercial strategy Risk management Receiving update reports at Board meetings on Discussing risk management and internal control Reviewing and approving the Groups regulatory health and safety, investor relations and legal and and accountability processes and reviewing key risk areas.
results announcements and annual report.
controls Approving the annual budget, the business Oversight of the plan for the Group and individual capital Receiving reports on and discussing the Groups Visiting CFC2 to assist in understanding the expenditure projects in respect of CFC1, CFC2 marketing and commercial initiatives.
operational issues the business faces.
Groups operations and new spokes.
Approving of corporate governance arrangements Discussing management succession plans and Approving the new Chairman Designate.
Delegated to Executive Board Treasury IT Security Risk Directors Committees Committee Committee Committee Review operational Oversees the treasury Monitors the Audit Oversees risk control performance and execute policy concerning Groups IT security Committee processes and risk strategic decisions the Groups cash and measures.
analysis as part of approved by the Board.
Remuneration deposits, investments, normal business Implement projects and Committee foreign exchange decision-making.
monitors operations and applicable Nomination interest rates.
Committee See page 59 for details on the Boards Committees.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 59 Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements including the Companies Act, the Listing Rules and the 2012 Code.
The chairman of each committee provides a report or update of each meeting of the respective committee to the Board at the subsequent Board meeting.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Board committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys corporate website www.
com and reports by each committee are given on pages specified in the below table: Membership required under the Minimum number of Committee Committee Role and terms of reference terms of reference meetings per year report on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups financial At least three members.
Three 66 69 reporting, internal control and risk management systems, All members should be the independence and effectiveness of the auditors and independent Non-Executive monitors the need for an internal audit function.
Makes recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders of the Company in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
Remuneration Determines the remuneration, bonuses, long-term incentive At least three members.
Two 72 75 arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect All members should be of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company independent Non-Executive Secretary.
Nomination Undertakes an annual review of succession planning and All Non-Executive Directors.
Two 70 71 ensures that the membership and composition of the Minimum of three members.
Board, including the balance of skills, remains appropriate.
A majority of the members Makes recommendations for the membership of the Board, should be independent NonAudit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
com Stock Code: OCDO Statement of Corporate Governance continued Division of Director responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Company Secretary and the Non-Executive Directors are set out in writing and provide a system of checks and balances in which no individual has unfettered decision-making power.
CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Sir Stuart Rose joined the Board on 11 March 2013 as Tim Steiner is the Companys Chief Executive officer.
David Grigson, who joined the Board as an an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman independent Non-Executive Director in February Tim is responsible for: Designate and succeeded Lord Grade as Chairman at 2010, is the Boards Senior Independent Director.
day-to-day management of the Group: the annual general meeting on 10 May 2013. operations and results of the Group: Davids role involves: executing the strategy once agreed by the Board: and providing a sounding board for the Chairman: Sir Stuart is responsible for: making proposals to the Board for the strategic serving as an intermediary for the other Directors the leadership of the Board: development of the Group.
when necessary: and ensuring the Boards effectiveness: and being available to shareholders to assist in inuencing the direction of the Boards agenda.
resolving any concerns of such shareholders.
EFFECTIVE DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS COMPANY SECRETARY AND BOARD OPERATION The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring The Board is assisted by the Company Secretary who wide and varied commercial experience to the Boards is also the Legal and Business Affairs Director, Neill and the committees deliberations.
All Directors have access to the advice and encouraged to challenge and bring independent services of the Company Secretary.
judgement to bear on all matters, whether strategic or The Company Secretary is responsible for: operational.
ensuring that the Board procedures are followed: Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment to governance matters: and the Board sets out clearly the expected time ensuring good information ows within the Board commitment from them to the Company.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Current Board composition The names and details of the current as at the date of this Annual Report Directors on the Board are set out in theBoard of Directorssection on pages 54 to 55.
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises 12 members, including the Chairman, five Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
Board changes There were a number of changes to the Board since the prior period, set out in chronological order in the following table: Director Position Date of Appointment Date of Resignation Wendy Becker Non-Executive Director 21 01 2013 Sir Stuart Rose Non-Executive Director 11 03 2013 Lord Grade Chairman 10 05 2013 Sir Stuart Rose Chairman 10 05 2013 In addition to the above effective changes, Jason Gissing, co-founder and Commercial Director, will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 7 May 2014.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 61 Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued External Board appointments There have been a number of changes to the Directors external appointments as set out in the table below.
The Chairman and the Board are kept informed by each Director of any proposed external appointments or other significant commitments as they arise.
Each Directors biographical details and significant time commitments outside of the Company are set out on pages 54 to 55.
Director Change in commitment Effective date of change Appointed Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited March 2013 Sir Stuart Rose Appointed Chairman of Oasis Healthcare Limited October 2013 Resigned as Non-Executive Director of Land Securities Group plc January 2014 Ruth Anderson Appointed Non-Executive Director of Coats plc January 2014 David Grigson Appointed Chairman of Investis Limited November 2013 Douglas McCallum Appointed Chairman of Trainline Investment Holdings Limited April 2013 The Board is satisfied that the changes in the Chairmans significant outside commitments during the year do not impact on his ability to make the necessary time commitments to the Company.
Board diversity A key objective of the Board is to ensure that its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meets its responsibilities.
The Boards diversity policy contains a number of measurable objectives, including a commitment to have a meaningful representation of women on the Board and in senior positions in the Company and a commitment to only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
The Nomination Committee monitors the progress made by the Company in achieving these objectives, though its notes it will take some time for the Company to meet its gender diversity objectives.
The charts below illustrate gender diversity on the Board and length of tenure of Board members.
We are conscious of the fact that since the resignation of Wendy Becker the number of women on the Board has fallen below 20%.
While we have never believed it was in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender on the Board, and our future appointments will continue to be based on objective criteria to ensure that we appoint the best individuals for the role, we are committed to increasing the percentage of women on our Board and the number of women at senior levels of leadership within the Company.
Diversity will remain an active consideration when changes to the Boards composition are contemplated.
For a description of diversity considerations for all employees see page 51.
The Board also takes into account the length of tenure of existing Directors when considering Directors re-appointments and succession plans.
Both Jrn Rausing and Robert Gorrie have served as Directors for over 11 years and accordingly their re-appointments to the Board are subject to particular scrutiny.
For the reasons noted on page 62 the Board is satisfied that their re-appointment remains appropriate.
LENGTH OF TENURE OF CHAIRMAN & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BOARD DIVERSITY BOARD INDEPENDENCE 10 3 2 2 5 5 2 2 Whole Board Executive Non-Executive 0-2 3-6 7 years years years Women Men 50% Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman 8% 42% Executive Director 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 62 www.
com Stock Code: OCDO Statement of Corporate Governance continued Independence The 2012 Code provides that the Board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director that it considers to be independent.
That is, to determine whether the director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The chart above illustrates the current composition of the Board in respect of the independence of its members under the 2012 Code.
The Board considers Sir Stuart Rose to have been independent on his appointment and continues to be so: it also considers all of the other Non-Executive Directors David Grigson, Ruth Anderson, Douglas McCallum, Robert Gorrie, Jrn Rausing and Alex Mahon to be independent.
The 2012 Code provides that the Board should state its reasons if it determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the existence of certain relationships or circumstances, seven examples of which are set out in provision B.
The guidance from PIRC states that: A companys explanation that a director is independent in character does not designate the director independent.
The board must provide evidence and a detailed defence of a directors independence if it considers a specific conflict to be immaterial.
Scrutiny by the Board The Board has scrutinised the factors relevant to its determination of the independence of the Chairman, Sir Stuart Rose, and the Non-Executive Directors, Jrn Rausing and Robert Gorrie.
The question of independence arises in connection with the Main Principle B.
1 of the 2012 Code that a board should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Sir Stuart Rose Sir Stuart Roses remuneration includes an initial one-off award of 452,284 Ocado shares.
This award was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
The Board believes that Sir Stuarts remuneration aligns his interests with those of the Company and does not believe that the share award compromises his independence.
Relevant considerations are that i the award of shares was conditional on Sir Stuart acquiring at least an equal number of shares at market value Sir Stuart acquired 750,000 of the Companys ordinary shares on his own account : ii that any share award will not vest until after three years of service as Chairman, that is 10 May 2016, provided that, on that date, he remains a Director of the Company: and iii even then, that Sir Stuart will not be entitled to sell any shares awarded to him until a year after he eventually leaves the Board.
The Board does not consider the share award to be equivalent to participation in the Companys share option or performance-related pay scheme, since there are no performance conditions attached to the receipt of the shares only continued service.
There is also no possibility of any conflict arising between the terms for receipt of these shares and determination of the achievement or otherwise of any performance related scheme for the Executive Directors and senior management.
Accordingly, Sir Stuart was considered independent on appointment to the Board and to the role of Chairman.
Jrn Rausing Jrn Rausing is a beneficiary of the Apple II Trust, a material approximately 11% shareholder of the Company.
In addition he has been a Board Director for 11 years, although less than four of these have been in the era of the Company as a listed company.
As the Board concluded and reported in the 2012 annual report and accounts, his continued membership of the Board is considered to be beneficial to the Company and supports the principles of the 2012 Code.
His significant business experience at Tetra Laval enhances the balance of skills and experience on the Board, and reinforces the long-term perspective of the Boards decision making.
The Board considers Jrn to be independent in character and judgement and does not believe that the size of the Apple II Trusts shareholding or the length of Jrns tenure on the Board amounts to a relationship or circumstance which affects his judgement.
Jrn is not a representative of the Apple II Trust, nor does the Apple II Trust have any contractual or other right to appoint a Director to the Board.
While Jrn benefits from the shareholding of the Apple II Trust, this is no different from the position of each of the other Non-Executive Directors, all of whom benefit from their own respective shareholdings.
Jrn remains a Director of the Company because the Board believes that is in the best interests of the Company.
Robert Gorrie Robert Gorrie has been a Director of the Company for 14 years, but less than four of these have been in the era of the Company as a listed company.
Robert chairs the Ocado Council, an employee representative forum that was set up to provide primarily hourly paid employees with direct access to the Board.
He received an additional 11,000 annually for performing this role 2012: 8,000.
Robert was previously employed in an executive role as the Logistics Director of the Company but more than five years ago, the period of time that the 2012 Code notes as relevant.
The Board does not consider the Ocado Council services to constitute a material business relationship with the Company, nor this additional remuneration to be material in the context of impacting Roberts judgement.
Moreover, the Board considers his role on the Ocado Council to be a positive asset in the promotion of good governance.
It provides the Non-Executive Directors with a direct channel of communication to employees and enhances the system of checks and balances that underpins good corporate governance.
The Board believes it increases their understanding of the business, increases the effectiveness of the Board and thereby reduces risk: it therefore augments the Companys compliance with the provisions of the 2012 Code.
Roberts knowledge of the Companys complex IT and logistics operations assists the Board in its formulation of strategy, and also supports the Main Principle B.
As with Jrn Rausing, the Board does not believe that Roberts length of tenure on the Board affects his judgement.
22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3 Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 63 Governance Statement of Corporate Governance continued Determination of independence The 2012 Code recommends that at least half of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Since, excluding the Chairman, there are six Non-Executive Directors all determined by the Board to be independent and five Executive Directors, the Board complies with this recommendation.
Similarly, the composition of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee comply in all respects with the independence provisions of the 2012 Code.
Review of composition The Board and the Nomination Committee reviewed and discussed the Board and the Board committee size and composition during the period.
Certain changes were made, which are described on page 71.
The Board will continue to keep the Board size and composition under regular review.
Review of Board Effectiveness The annual Board effectiveness review provides a useful opportunity for the Directors to reflect on their collective and individual effectiveness and consider changes.
The review for 2013 was facilitated externally by Independent Audit Limited.
The review followed two years in which an internally facilitated review had been conducted by the Company Secretary, using a questionnaire and a process designed externally.
Independent Audit Limited who have no other connection to the Company, and are considered to be independent carried out a Board review which included conducting individual interviews with the Directors and the Deputy Company Secretary and observing a Board meeting.
The interviewees were asked their views on a range of subjects including the role of the Board and the Board committees, the quality of the Board and committee discussions, the relationship between the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors, and the Board and committee discussions on various topics such as strategy, risk, assurance, Board composition and succession planning.
The review concluded with a final report and feedback session with the Chairman and a presentation to and discussion with the Board at a Board meeting.
The report contained extensive commentary on the effectiveness of the Board, the committees, the Non-Executive Directors, the Executive Directors as well as on the Company Secretariat and the support provided to the Board by management.
A key observation was that the Board will need to keep under careful review the composition, skills and experience of Board members to ensure that it can continue to provide the necessary steer and guidance for the Company as it enters an important stage of its development, including potential overseas expansion.
As part of this, overseeing employee development and continuing to evolve the Companys governance and risk management processes were seen as some of the challenges facing the Board in future.
The Board and separately each of the committees discussed the report including the key considerations.
The Board will take the findings of the report into account in formulating its future plans.
The Board recognises that a continuous and constructive evaluation of its performance is an important factor in helping the Board realise its maximum potential.
The Board intends to continue to conduct annual performance reviews, with external oversight of the process at least every three years.
Apart from the formal review of the Boards effectiveness, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present to discuss the performance of the Board and the Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors also met to discuss the performance of the Chairman without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present and subsequently met with the Chairman to provide feedback.
The Chairman regularly met with the Executive Directors during the period, on a range of Company matters and responsibilities.
Director election In order to maintain high standards of corporate governance, the Articles require each Director to retire at every annual general meeting each Director may offer himself or herself for reappointment by the members at such meeting.
At the last annual general meeting on 10 May 2013 all the then-current Directors other than Lord Grade stood for reappointment, and were duly elected.
Each current Director, except Jason Gissing, will seek re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
The rules that the Company has about the appointment and replacement of Directors are described in theDirectors report on page 109.
The explanatory notes set out in the Notice of Meeting state the reasons that the Board believes each Director proposed for re-election at the AGM should be reappointed.
The Board has based, in part, its recommendations for re-election on its review of the results from the Board evaluation process, on the reviews conducted at the meetings of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans review of individual evaluations: it has concluded that each Directors performance continues to be effective and that each Director has demonstrated substantial commitment to the role including time for Board and committee meetings noted below and other responsibilities, taking into account a number of considerations including outside commitments during the period.
com Stock Code: OCDO Statement of Corporate Governance continued Board and Committees attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and committee meetings during the period is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled 14 meetings during the period and ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings, including the Morrisons agreement.
The composition of the Board and committees changed during the period, as set out above and in each of the Board committees description set out below: hence Directors did not attend all of the relevant meetings during the period.
Remuneration Nomination Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Committee Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Executive Directors Tim Steiner 14 14 Duncan Tatton-Brown 14 14 Neill Abrams 14 14 Jason Gissing 14 14 Mark Richardson 14 14 Non-Executive Directors Sir Stuart Rose Chairman 11 11 David Grigson 14 14 5 5 3 3 2 2 Jrn Rausing 12 14 2 2 2 2 Ruth Anderson 14 14 5 5 5 5 2 2 Robert Gorrie 14 14 1 1 2 2 2 2 Douglas McCallum 13 14 5 5 2 2 Alex Mahon 13 14 5 5 2 2 Former Directors Lord Grade 6 6 2 2 Wendy Becker 2 2 1 1 1 1 Notes: Sir Stuart Rose joined the Board of the Company on 11 March 2013.
Lord Grade resigned from the Board of the Company effective on 10 May 2013.
Wendy Becker resigned from the Board of the Company effective on 21 January 2013.
Where a Director has not attended a Board or Committee meeting, it is due to a conflicting prior commitment.
Board induction and professional development The Chairman and the Company Secretary are responsible for preparing and coordinating an induction programme for newly appointed Directors.
The programme includes meeting with members of management and the Company Secretary and arrangements to learn about the business operations including a CFC visit, accompanying a CSTM on a delivery route and doing a personal shopper shift in the CFC.
The Director also receives an induction pack comprising the Groups key Board and governance documents and policies, and training from the Companys solicitors on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
Depending on the Director role, a newly appointed Director may meet with the Companys shareholders, brokers and or auditors.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as required following their appointment and is encouraged to develop their understanding of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to join two non-executive director network groups which provide access to know-how on current issues relevant to the role of company director.
The members of the Audit Committee received training from the Companys auditors, PwC, on a number of topics, including the new narrative reporting regulations and changes to the role of the Audit Committee under the 2012 Code.
Members of the Audit Committee also receive written know-how and technical updates from PwC to keep them abreast of the latest accounting, auditing, tax and reporting developments.
The members of the Remuneration Committee received know-how and updates from the Remuneration Committees remuneration advisers, Deloitte LLP, on the new director remuneration legislation.
Information The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all of the Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate information from time-to-time, including briefing papers distributed in advance of the Board meetings.
Directors can, where they judge it to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board committees have access to sufficient resources to discharge their duties, including external consultants and advisers.
Conflicts of interests The Companies Act provides that directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association permit.
Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment sets out the requirement for disclosing conflicts to the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
As part of his or her induction process, a newly appointed Director completes a questionnaire which requires him or her to disclose any conflicts of interests to the Company.
No Director has declared to the Company any actual or potential conflicts of interest between any of his or her duties to the Company and his or her private 22965.04 10 March 2014 3:21 PM Proof 3
