Board of Directors The Board brings a broad range of skills and experience to the Company, across the OilandGas industry, commercial and financial sectors and capital markets.
Nicholas Smith Nick Cooper Lisa Mitchell Dennis McShane Ronald Blakely Executive director & Executive director & Executive director & Executive director of Senior Independent Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Corporate Strategy non-executive director Nicholas Smith was appointed Dr Nick Cooper was appointed Lisa Mitchell was appointed Dennis McShane was Ronald Blakely was appointed as a non-executive director as an executive director as an executive director appointed as a non-executive as a non-executive director in October 2007 and as and Chief Executive in June on 26 April 2013.
She was director in October 2007 in July 2011 and as Senior Chairman in September 2011.
He is a member of the appointed as Chief Financial and as Senior Independent Independent Director on 2009.
He is a member of the Nomination and Technical Officer in January 2012, Director in September 2009.
He is Remuneration Committee Advisory Committees.
Prior to having previously been Group On 18 February 2013, Dennis Chairman of the Audit and Chairman of the joining Ophir, Nick Cooper was Financial Controller.
With 20 was appointed as Director Committee and a member Nomination Committee.
Chief Financial Officer and years experience as a finance of Corporate Strategy and of the Remuneration and Nicholas Smith trained as co-founder of Salamander professional in the oil and a member of the executive Nomination Committees.
He began his gas, mining and resources management team.
Dennis Ronald Blakely spent over before joining the Jardine career as a geophysicist and pharmaceutical sectors, McShane is a founding 38 years working for Royal Fleming Group, becoming with BG and Amoco before Lisa Mitchells previous roles principal of Midas Resource Dutch Shell companies.
Chief Financial Officer joining Booz-Allen & Hamilton.
include Chief Financial Officer Partners.
From 2004 to 2008 Onhis retirement in October from 1993 to 1997.
He is a From 1999 to 2005, he was at Pan Pacific Petroleum NL he was executive director 2008, he held the role of Chairman of Aberdeen New a member of the oil and gas an ASX and NZX listed oil of Finance and Strategy Executive Vice President Thai Investment Trust plc team at Goldman Sachs.
and gas exploration and for the Ferrexpo group of Global Downstream Finance, and Senior Independent Nick has a BSc and PhD in production company and companies.
Prior to this, he while previous roles included Director of Schroder Geophysical Sciences and Chief Financial Officer at was a Managing Director of CFO of Shell Oil Products in AsiaPacific Fund plc.
GCM Resources plc an AIM JPMorgan Chase emerging the USA and CFO of Shell listed mining company.
markets and mining and Canada.
Mr Blakely is a Year appointed Year appointed Shebegan her career metals practices in New member of the Society of 2007 2011 with Mobil Oil Australia.
Management Accountants Lisa Mitchell is a Certified of Alberta, Canada.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Practising Accountant with the Year appointed Nomination Committee Nomination Committee, Australian Society of Certified 2013 appointed as an Year appointed Chairman, Remuneration Technical Advisory Committee Practising Accountants, has a indpendent non-executive 2011 Committee Graduate Diploma in Applied director in 2007 Corporate Governance from Committee membership: the Chartered Secretaries Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman, Australia and a Bachelor None Nomination Committee, of Economics major in Remuneration Committee Accounting from La Trobe University, Melbourne.
Year appointed 2013 Committee membership: None 46 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Board diversity Directors who retired during the reporting period Male 8 Jonathan Taylor Female 2 Position Executive director and founder Date of retirement 6 June 2013 Alan Booth Vivien Gibney John Lander Lyndon Powell William Bill Schrader Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director non-executive director Alan Booth was appointed Vivien Gibney was appointed John Lander was appointed Lyndon Powell was appointed Bill Schrader was appointed as a non-executive director as a non-executive director as a non-executive director in as a non-executive director in as a non-executive director on 26 April 2013.
He is Chairman on 18 February 2013.
Chairman of the Technical November 2013, she was has over 40 years experience of the HSE Committee and a He is a member of the Advisory Committee and appointed as Chairman of the in the international oil and gas member of the Remuneration Audit, HSE and Technical member of the Remuneration, Remuneration Committee industry.
He began his career and Nomination Committees.
Bill HSE and Audit Committees.
and as member of the HSE as a geophysicist with Shell Lyndon Powell spent the Schrader has over 30 years Alan Booth has 30 years Committee.
Vivien has 25 plc prior to holding executive majority of his career in the experience working at experience in oil and gas years experience as counsel positions at RTZ Oil and Gas armed services, gaining a BP plc, including as Chief exploration at Amerada Hess, in the upstream oil and gas Limited, Pict Petroleum plc, wide spectrum of experience Executive of several country Oryx Energy and Encana.
industry, including roles with Premier Oil plc, British-Borneo in operational and strategic operations, as President of Most recently, Alan Booth was Mobil Oil and Enterprise Petroleum Syndicate plc management.
This included the Azerbaijan International Founder and Chief Executive Oil plc.
Whilst at Enterprise and Tullow Oil plc.
He is a providing protection to the Operating Company and Officer of EnCore Oil plc Oil, Vivien set up the legal Non-executive Director of Foreign & Commonwealth as Chief Operating Officer and is now the Founder and department and held the Neon Energy Limited.
John Office and commanding of TNK-BP.
In May 2013 Bill Director of EnCounter Oil Ltd. positions of General Counsel, Lander was Chairman of the several major units.
He Schrader was appointed Alan Booth holds a BSc in Company Secretary and Remuneration Committee is a director and owner non-executive director of the Geology from the University Head of HR.
Vivien has held until November 2013 and of Barbican Global Ltd, Hess Corporation.
Bill Schrader of Nottingham and MSc.
a number of non-executive member of the Audit, HSE specialising in providing holds a BSc in Chemical DIC.
in Petroleum Geology board positions in the and Technical Advisory independent security advice Engineering from the from the Royal School voluntary sector and in listed Committees until his to the corporate sector.
University of Cincinnati and Mines, Imperial College.
companies More recently, retirement from the Board an MBA from the University He is a former president of she was a member of the on 28 February 2014.
Throughout his the UK Offshore Operators Board of Directors of Encore 2007 career Bill Schrader has been Association UKOOA and Oil plc where she chaired the Year appointed commended for his strong currently a director of the Remuneration Committee.
2008 Committee membership: leadership qualities, strategic Oil and Gas Independents Vivien is a barrister with HSE Committee Chairman, vision and capability in Association OGIA.
B. and received an Committee membership: Nomination Committee, managing complex operating Honorary Fellowship in Audit Committee, HSE Remuneration Committee and government relationships.
Year appointed Petroleum law from the Committee, Remuneration 2013 University of Dundee.
Committee, Technical Year appointed Advisory Committee 2013 Committee membership: Year appointed Technical Advisory Committee 2013 Committee membership: Chairman, AuditCommittee, Audit Committee, HSE Remuneration Committee, Committee membership: Committee, Technical HSE Committee Remuneration Committee Advisory Committee Chairman, HSE Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
