Corporate Governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards ofcorporate governance and recognises the importance ofgoodgovernance.
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lead the Nomination Committee in the appointment of an The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive effective and complementary Board, review succession planning Officer are clearly established, separate and have been set out inwriting.
and evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Nicholas Smith was appointed as Chairman of the Company Foster effective Board relationships between the executive and in 2009, having been a non-executive director since 2007.
As non-executive members, support and advise the Chief Executive Chairman, he is responsible for the effective running of the Board Officer generally and in the implementation of agreed strategy.
and for ensuring that it plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Companys strategy.
Ensure effective communication with the Companys stakeholders Together with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and that their views are understood by the Board.
and the Company Secretary, the Chairman sets the agenda Role of the Chief Executive Officer for Board meetings, ensuring that the decision-making process The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for day-to-day adopted by the Board allows for open and constructive debate.
management of the business within the authorities delegated TheChairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer, bythe Board.
In particular, he will: providing support and advice as well as ensuring that the strategies Propose, develop and supervise the Companys strategy and and actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
overall commercial objectives and ensure that agreed strategies The Chairman was considered to be independent in character are implemented by the business.
and judgement on his appointment.
Build and develop an appropriate organisational structure for the Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in June 2011. business, establish processes and systems and plan resourcing Heis responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the toensure that the Company has the capability to achieve its aims.
Company, proposing and developing strategy and overall commercial Lead the executive team including undertaking appraisals, objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of a strong reviewing development needs and making recommendations and experienced executive team, implementing the decisions of tothe Remuneration Committee with regard to remuneration.
the Board and its Committees.
In response to recommendations Promote and conduct the affairs of the Company with the made following the 2012 Board evaluation, the Chairman and highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Chief Executive Officer hold weekly or bi-weekly telephone calls.
Progress the Companys communication programme with Inaddition, with effect from the beginning of the reporting period, shareholders and ensure that financial results, business strategies formal meetings have taken place between the Chairman, the Senior and targets are appropriately communicated to theCompanys Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
focus on governance and operating activities in order to enhance the ability of the Senior Independent Director to fulfil the independence Non-executive directors mandate of that role and aid communication where appropriate.
The independent non-executive directors bring a wealth of knowledge from the Oil and Gas industry together with experience A summary of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman from other sectors to the Board and its Committees.
Through their and Chief Executive Officer as at 31 December 2013 is set out below.
contributions, they provide the Company with independent views on Role of the Chairman matters of strategy, performance, risk and conduct.
Non-executive The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board.
directors are appointed for an initial three-year term, although Inparticular, he will: approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM yearly, with the expectation that a further three-year term will follow, subject Ensure that the Board and its Committees operate in a way that toreview by the Board.
Following a second term, consideration as conforms to expected high standards of corporate governance.
to whether a serving independent non-executive director should Set the style and tone of Board discussions, promote constructive be recommended for reappointment for a third term is subject to debate and ensure an accurate, timely and clear flow of the review of the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive information to the Directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non- 48 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance executive directors are available for inspection at the registered office Senior Independent Director during normal business hours.
While the expected time commitment Ronald Blakely was appointed as the Senior Independent Director from non-executive directors is set out in their letter of appointment with effect from 18 February 2013 following Dennis McShanes as approximately two days per month, plus preparation time, appointment as an executive director of the Board as at the same eachisrequired to confirm that they are able to devote such time date.
The Senior Independent Director is charged with maintaining asis necessary for the satisfactory performance of their duties.
a communication channel between the Chairman and the nonexecutive directors and for leading the non-executive directors in The length of tenure and independence of the non-executive the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
In addition, directors as at year end is shown below: the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who Tenure from Considered have concerns that have not, or cannot, be resolved through the Date of appointment tobe normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer or appointment to2014 AGM independent where such contact is inappropriate.
The specific terms of the role Ronald Blakely July 2011 Less than Yes of the Senior Independent Director have been set out in writing and 3years approved by the Board.
Alan Booth April 2013 Less than Yes 2years Company Secretary Vivien Gibney August 2013 Less than Yes Jacqueline Knox was appointed as Company Secretary in April 2013 1year and is supported by the Deputy Company Secretary, Chandrika John Lander November 2008 Less than Yes Kher, who was appointed in October 2013.
6years Lyndon Powell October 2007 Less than Yes Effectiveness 7years Board composition William Bill Schrader February 2013 Less than Yes At 31 December 2013 the Board was comprised of the Chairman, 2years three executive directors and six independent non-executive In the case of John Lander, the tenure represents the date from his directors.
The following changes to the Board took place during the appointment to the Board until his retirement on 28 February 2014. year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this report: The Board considers that all its non-executive directors at year end, 18 February 2013 Dennis McShane ceased to be an independent namely Ronald Blakely, Alan Booth, Vivien Gibney, John Lander, non-executive director on his appointment as Lyndon Powell and Bill Schrader were independent in character and Executive Director of Corporate Strategy.
judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that might Bill Schrader was appointed as an independent affect their judgement.
Due to the wealth of experience that Lyndon non-executive director.
Powell has acquired whilst working in the armed services, the Chairman 26 April 2013 Lisa Mitchell was appointed as an executive director and the Chief Executive Officer believe his reappointment to serve ofthe Company.
for a third term was instrumental in particular, to the contribution Alan Booth was appointed as an independent MrPowell makes as Chairman of the HSE Committee in overseeing the non-executive director.
management of operational and security risks across the business.
6 June 2013 Jonathan Taylor, an executive director, retired from the On 18 February 2013, Dennis McShanes role as a non-executive Board at the conclusion of the AGM to pursue other director ceased when he was appointed as Executive Director interests.
Nevertheless, during the year under 14 August 2013 Vivien Gibney was appointed as an independent review, themajority of the non-executive directors, excluding the non-executive director.
Chairman, were independent non-executive directors and met the 28 February 2014 John Lander, independent non-executive director, criteria for independence set out in the Code.
Throughout 2013 retired from the Board.
and up to the date of publication of this report, a majority ofthe Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent non-executive directors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Corporate Governance continued As at the date of this report therefore, the Board comprises Board process the Chairman, three executive directors and five independent Directors are provided with full and timely information before non-executive directors.
The Board believes that this balance meetings, including detailed financial information where ofexecutive and non-executive directors provides for high applicable.
The Chief Executive Officer agrees the agenda for quality discussion and consideration of the key issues concerning Board meetings in consultation with the Company Secretary, theCompany.
Chief Financial Officer and the Chairman and formal minutes are prepared to record all decisions made.
To facilitate the efficient The composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure that dissemination of information to directors, the Board implemented the Directors have the required skills, knowledge and experience electronic board meeting software during the year.
Minutes of tomeet the needs of the business.
Biographical details for each Board and Committee meetings are formally approved at the ofthe Directors who served at the end of the year and at the date following meetings.
In the meantime, draft minutes are circulated of this report are set out on pages 46 to 47. to each Director or Committee member as appropriate as soon Meeting attendance aspracticable after the conclusion of the meeting.
The Board held five formal meetings during 2013, including Minutes of Committee meetings may be made available to other a meeting to consider the strategic direction of the business.
Board members on request and as appropriate.
If a Director objects Inaddition, six further meetings were called at short notice in order to a particular proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of the to consider specific items of business.
Details of the attendance of relevant meeting.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 there all Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2013 were no such objections.
and up to the date of this report at the formal and short-notice Board meetings are shown in the table below: In August 2013, the Board approved the establishment of the Technical Advisory Committee which would amongst many other Scheduled Board Meetings held matters consider the technical aspects of any operational business Meetings atshort notice proposals requiring Board approval and to advise the Board if Current Directors there are any significant technical risks or concerns that should be Nicholas Smith, Chairman 5 5 6 6 taken into consideration when considering any such proposals.
Nick Cooper, Chief Executive Officer 5 5 6 6 ThisCommittee also ensures the technical activities of the Lisa Mitchell, executive director 3 3 3 3 Company are consistent with the overall strategy of the Company.
1 Dennis McShane, executive director 5 5 6 6 The Board recognises that the establishment of such a Committee Ronald Blakely, non-executive director 5 5 6 6 is not a requirement of the Code, nonetheless, its establishment 2 Alan Booth, non-executive director 3 3 3 3 enhances the Boards ability to approve appropriate business 3 Vivien Gibney, non-executive director 2 2 2 2 proposals of a technical nature pertaining to the Oil and Gas 5 John Lander, non-executive director 5 5 6 6 industry.
The Committee is comprised of three members and meets Lyndon Powell, non-executive director 5 5 6 6 at least four times a year and as otherwise required.
The Chair of 1 Bill Schrader, non-executive director 4 4 5 5 the Committee is Alan Booth, the Chief Executive Officer and Bill Schrader are also members.
The Committees Terms of Reference Former Directors are available on the Companys website at www.
com 4 Jonathan Taylor, executive director 3 3 3 4 about-us board-committees technical-advisory.
1 Dennis McShane was appointed to the Board as an executive director and BillSchrader as an independent non-executive director on18February2013 Insurance and indemnification 2 Alan Booth and Lisa Mitchell were appointed to the Board on 26 April 2013 The Company provides its Directors and Officers with the benefit 3 Vivien Gibney was appointed to the Board on 14 August 2013 of appropriate insurance, which is reviewed annually.
In addition, 4 Jonathan Taylor resigned from the Board on 6 June 2013 5 John Lander retired from the Board on 28 February 2014 Directors and Officers have received an indemnity from the Company against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by them in relation to the 50 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Company or any associated company: and b any other liability During the year ended 31 December 2013, none of the Companys incurred by or attaching to the Director or Officer in the actual executive directors held directorships in any other quoted company.
orpurported execution and or discharge of their duties and or the Board Committee evaluation exercise or purported exercise of their powers and or otherwise Socia Limited was appointed to undertake the first external inrelation to or in connection with their duties, powers or office evaluation of the Board, its members and processes in 2012.
This other than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that review indicated that the Board met the requirements of the Code such an indemnity is not permitted by law.
but that a number of areas could be developed further.
During 2013, Appointment, induction and training a number of changes have been implemented to extend the skills The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate available to the Board and to develop its governance of the business.
induction is given to new Board members.
The induction One outcome from the 2012 evaluation led the Chairman to programme is specifically tailored to the needs of the incoming initiate a review of the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
Director and will include training on the business and strategy ofthe Socia Limited led by Alex Cameron, was again appointed to Company, copies of Board policies and procedures, meetingswith undertake the review.
The objective of this evaluation was focused senior management and site visits, where appropriate.
Ongoing on three key areas: to ensure the Board Committees are fit to meet development and training is provided toDirectors at Board and the demands of the business, for the Committees to be afforded Committee meetings.
sufficient time and authority to take on a greater role and to ensure During 2013, the Directors received specific training on: that the Committees involvement enables the Board to have ample time to address the most significant matters affecting the business.
Macro, equity markets and gas market trends: Asia-Pacific liquefied natural gas: The external facilitator conducted interviews with each Committee Chairman and respective Committee members, attended Committee Competitor activity in East and West Africa: meetings and was furnished with each Committees Terms of UK Bribery Act update: Reference and other relevant documentation to facilitate the HSE, including crisis management: and evaluation.
The resulting report, including recommendations for action, Updates on specific areas of risk.
was considered by the Committee members and the Chairman of the Board and a response plan was agreed by each respective Committee.
Independent advice A series of recommendations emerged from the evaluation of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the which the principal conclusion was the timing and scheduling of Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure Committee meetings should be modified.
The relevant Committees whereby any Director may take independent professional advice should then be able to increase their workload and allow Board at the Companys expense on any matter in the furtherance meetings to deal with complex strategic issues rather than items oftheirduties.
which could more effectively be considered at Committee level.
Re-election In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all continuing The Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairmans Directors of the Company offer themselves for annual re-election performance by the non-executive directors.
The result of the at the AGM.
Chairmans review was that he was perceived to be performing well.
Conflicts of interest External directorships Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between their personal The Company has adopted a policy which allows the executive interests and those of the Company.
The provisions of Section directors to accept directorship of other quoted companies 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles provided that they have obtained the prior permission of the ofAssociation permit the Board to authorise situations identified Chairman.
As set out in the Code, no executive director would be by a Director in which he or she has, or may have, a direct or permitted to take on more than one non-executive directorship indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests in a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Corporate Governance continued The Board continues to undertake regular reviews of the outside Annual General Meeting positions and interests or arrangements with third parties held by All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual each Director and, where appropriate, to authorise those situational General Meeting when they are given the opportunity to ask conflicts following consideration.
Notwithstanding the above, each questions on the financial report and accounts and on the general Director is aware of their duty to notify the Board should there be business of the Company.
any material change to their positions or interests during the year.
Directors do not participate in Board discussion or decisions which The 2014 AGM will be held on 21 May 2014 at the offices relate to any matter in which they have or may have a conflict  LLP, 7More London Riverside, ofinterest.
Full details of the business of the AGM is set out in the Notice of Meeting and sent to those shareholders who have elected to receive hard copy notifications, together with any related Relations with shareholders documentation, at least 20clear business days before the date Dialogue with shareholders of the meeting in accordance with the requirement of the Code.
The Board recognises the importance of establishing and TheNotice of Meeting together with a copy of the 2013 Annual maintaining good relations with all the Companys shareholders.
Report will also be made available at: www.
Nick Cooper, the Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for investor relations, supported by executive directors, senior Committees of the Board management and the investor relations function.
Over 300 investor In order to facilitate the business of the Company, the Board meetings and calls were hosted during the year.
Additionally, hasdelegated certain responsibilities to its standing Committees Nicholas Smith, the Chairman, and Ron Blakely, the Senior inline with the provisions of the Code.
The reports of the Audit, Independent and Audit Committee Chairman met with major HSE, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are set out institutional shareholders in January 2014 to listen to their views onthefollowing pages.
on the Companys progress, developments since listing and the executive management team.
This process, which was well received by investors and produced positive responses on the Company and its management team is ongoing.
Vivien Gibney, the Remuneration Committee Chairman also consulted widely with key institutional shareholders about the Companys remuneration policy and proposals on remuneration for 2014.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as other important business announcements, are published to the investor relations section of the Companys website and stakeholders can subscribe to receive new updates by email by registering online on the website at www.
52 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Ronald Blakely I take pleasure in providing shareholders with my report on the Audit Committee Audit Committee deliberations during 2013.
Chairman Firstly, I would like to thank my Board colleagues, John Lander and Bill Schrader for their participation on the Committee.
Bill Membership and attendance joined the Committee on 18 February 2013 following Dennis The members of the Committee, the majority of whom are McShanes transition as a full time executive.
His considerable independent non-executive directors, together with details of their experience leading country operations, including in Africa, along individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended with his deep knowledge of facilities management provides a 31 December 2013, are set out below: strong operations complement to the Committee.
John Lander Committee members Meeting attendance retired from the Board on 28 February 2014 and had brought Ronald Blakely Committee Chairman 4 4 valuable knowledge of earth sciences and geology which are 1 Alan Booth core to the Ophir business during his period of service.
With my John Lander 4 4 background as a professional accountant and global financial Dennis McShane 1 1 leadership experience, I believe the Committee has the requisite Bill Schrader 2 2 and diverse skills to fulfil its mandate.
1 Alan Booth was appointed a member of the Committee on 14November2013 In last years report, I commented on the focus of the Committee to improve the control framework, to put in place evaluation and The Board considers all members of the Committee to be management processes for risks and to ensure compliance with independent and that Ronald Blakely has recent and relevant regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions where we operate.
financial experience and competence in accounting as required All of these areas continued to receive focus in 2013 and further by section C. 3.1 of the Code and section 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure improvements were made through maturing and embedding and Transparency Rules, respectively.
The Chief Executive Officer, these activities into the day-to-day operations of the Company.
Chief Financial Officer and representatives of the external auditor Continued growth in the Company led to a decision that an attend Committee meetings on a regular basis.
In addition, the internal audit programme should be established in 2013 and Group Financial Controller and the General Counsel and Company towards the end of the year, we conducted a tender among Secretary may be invited to attend all or part of Committee three professional accountancy firms which would allow a broad meetings as required.
The external auditors are also given the range of skills to be utilised by the Company for internal audits.
opportunity to meet with the Committee without executive Full cycle implementation will occur in 2014. management being present.
During the year management recommended that the current Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee financial system of the Company be replaced by a widely During 2013, the Committee reviewed its objectives and used industry finance platform which the Audit Committee Terms of Reference to ensure that they remained appropriate.
While this will raise some risk for the Company in the The Committees full Terms of Reference are available on the short-term implementation phase, it will facilitate better controls Companys website at www.
com about-us boardand more robust reporting in the longer term.
The Committee committees audit and are fully compliant with section C. 3.2 agreed with management that the scope and complexity of the oftheCode.
Companys future activities will go beyond the capacity of the current system.
The Committee has and will continue to monitor the changeover through to full implementation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Early in 2013, the Committee reviewed the controls associated engagement with effect from the 2014 fiscal year.
The decision with the determination of probable and contingent reserves to embark on this undertaking was made at the time of the initial from technical interpretation through to external reporting.
The proposal by the Financial Reporting Council.
With a concern that Committee was sufficiently satisfied that there was appropriate many companies would engage the major accounting firms in division of technical responsibilities, adequate peer and partner tendering over the next two years, it was agreed to move early challenge and well-defined sign off authorities for the reporting of and precede this peak in the market.
It was also felt that Ophirs exploration results.
In addition, the Company has and will continue accounting was going to become more complex in future with to use external independent parties to conduct reserve verifications.
more drilling activity in more countries and potentially more joint venture arrangements, such that 2014 would be a better time Through the two external reporting periods in the past year, the tochange external auditors if that was the conclusion.
Committee engaged with Ernst & Young LLP EY, the external auditors, to discuss significant matters in the reporting of the The tender process was conducted by the Ophir Contracting financial statements.
The main focus of that dialogue fell in two and Procurement Manager to give rigour and independent areas.
Firstly, as a company with no revenues, the going concern structure.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I formed part of the evaluation was thoroughly scrutinised.
The evaluation covered both Selection Committee with the Contracting and Procurement short-term liquidity and longer term solvency as was addressed Manager, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the by the Sharman Panel.
Therefore, much time and focus is given to Finance department in each step of the evaluation and final the assessment of available sources of capital to the Company and recommendation.
We received a strong response from three major the timing of Company commitments to expenditures.
In the past accounting firms that provided extremely professional proposals year shareholders will be aware that the Company raised capital and presentations.
It was a very competitive process which each through a Placement and Rights Issue announced in March 2013 firm clearly took very seriously.
The tender process was a very useful and entered into a farm-in agreement announced in November means to assess the quality and effectiveness of EY as well as 2013 and subject to the completion of the latter, both of which the other firms.
In the end analysis, the likeness of organisational will provide substantial funds to the Company, allowing it to carry capabilities, the competitive level of fees and the professionalism of out the preferred exploration programme and meet the work lead partner personnel did not provide a distinction that resulted in programme pursuant to the Product Sharing Contracts and other a compelling case to engage a new external auditor.
The decision related contractual obligations.
This allowed the Board to validate was therefore made to continue with EY as the Company external the going concern basis of accounting.
The conclusion was tested auditor until such time as future tender requirements are considered.
and challenged under several sensitivity variations from the base It must be acknowledged that the Company has relied on EY to budget both by EY and the Board.
While the going concern test provide specific approved non-audit services during the first two has been validated at the time of issuing the 2013 Annual Report, years of public listing.
Given small staff numbers in Ophir and the shareholders should be aware of the risk of ownership in the demands on the limited personnel, the Company could not have Company.
The Ophir business model will always carry inherently completed the Initial Public Offering, the Dominion acquisition higher risks until such time as a long-term revenue source is secured.
and the financings in 2012 and 2013 without the added help from EY in very specific areas, drawing on their financial knowledge of The second area of review with EY related to asset impairments.
In 2014, that reliance for non-audit services will be Ophir employs IFRS 6 as the basis of capitalising exploration results.
diminished and represent only exceptional circumstances in future.
Given the material amounts involved, the exploration results are There is no evidence that the extra engagements over the past challenged to ensure appropriate judgements are applied from two years have diminished the independence of EY as Company the technical evaluations.
The Company had significant success auditor.
However, in keeping with best practice, and recognising the in discovering material pools of hydrocarbons during the year but increased capacity of Ophir internal staff, it is appropriate to take there were also impairments recorded associated with Ghana, steps to assure the future independence.
Tanzania Block 7, Madagascar, Congo and Kenya.
Ronald Blakely The last subject I wish to comment upon is audit tendering.
The Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee made the decision to tender the external audit 54 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Financial reporting should impairments arise.
Impairment reviews are undertaken During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved for bythe Company in accordance with IFRS6.
The external auditors consideration by the Board the financial results for the year ended report on this area of audit risk to the Audit Committee and the 31 December 2012 together with the results for the half-year to Committee has been satisfied that exploration has been treated 30 June 2013.
On both occasions, the Committee considered the inthe correct way in the financial statements.
external auditors approach to their review of the interim results and A further area of focus at the beginning of the year was to ensure their audit of the full-year financial statements to ensure that the that the Dominion acquisition in 2012 had been accounted for scope of relevant review or audit was appropriate.
The Committee correctly in the 2012 Annual Report.
The Committee therefore also reviewed and discussed the external auditors report on the reviewed the application of business combination accounting fulland half-year financial results with EY, prior to agreeing to principles for the acquisition and were satisfied that they had been recommend each set of financial statements and associated appropriately applied.
reports to the Ophir Board for approval.
External Auditor A key element of this review was the appropriateness of preparing EY has acted as auditors for the Company since 2004.
During the the accounts on a going concern basis, a particular area of scrutiny year, the Committee considered and agreed that the Companys and review given that the Company continues to be an exploration external audit services should be put out to tender at least once rather than a producing entity.
The going concern reviews included every ten years, as set out in the Code and the FRC Guidance of consideration of forecast plans and supporting assumptions, as well Audit Committees.
The Contracting and Procurement Manager, on as the options available to the Company for obtaining additional behalf of the Committee, led the review of audit services, including funding, such as portfolio management and equity.
Portfolio a tender by suppliers, ahead of the commencement of the 2014 management is regularly reviewed to potentially enhance the audit.
This was the Companys first external tender exercise since its financial capacity and flexibility of the Company.
At both fulland incorporation in 2004.
The selection process for the appointment half-year, the Committee agreed that the Companys financial of an external auditor followed the Companys standard procedure position was such that it continued to be appropriate for accounts for tenders and was undertaken within a pre-defined timetable.
to be prepared on a going concern basis.
A Selection Committee was established which included the The Company adds value through its ability to find, develop and Committee Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Contracting eventually monetise early stage oil and gas assets, which invariably and Procurement Manager and other senior members of the are non-revenue generating.
It follows from this that the principal Finance department.
Together, the Selection Committee agreed focus of the Committee, when considering the financial reporting the selection criteria against which they would measure each of the Company, is to ensure that the exploration expenditure tender participant.
A detailed Request for Tender RFT document commitments of the Company are appropriately funded.
This was prepared and distributed to the participants who had been preresults in major focus being placed on forward spending plans selected for the tender.
Following a review of all RFT submissions, and working capital models as much as retrospective scrutiny of tender participants were invited to present their proposal to the financial reporting.
Prior to approving both the full-year financial Selection Committee.
Each participant was required to evidence statements for 2012 and the interim financial statements for they had the required experience and capability to provide the 2013, the Committee considered the Companys forward plans for Company with appropriate external auditing services.
Using the fund-raising and drilling commitments being the most significant selection criteria matrix, each tender participant was ranked by forward financial commitments that Ophir make as part of its theSelection Committee.
assessment of the going concern basis of preparation of the accounts further detail on the going concern statement is set out The Audit Committee as a whole was provided with regular on page 66. progress reports on the external audit tender and, once the process had been completed, the Selection Committee made An associated area of audit risk is the assessment of the carrying a recommendation to the Audit Committee based on their value of capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure to observations and analysis.
ensure that expenditure is appropriately expensed to the P&L Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Taking all factors into consideration, such as each providers During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company capability, competitive level of fees and lead partners, the committed expenditure of US$435,000 on audit services Committee agreed to recommend to the Board that EY be retained 2012:US$373,000 and US$772,000 on non-audit work as the Companys external auditors and that their reappointment 2012:US$638,000.
The non-audit work undertaken by EY related be submitted at the AGM in 2014.
The Committee further agreed to audit-related assurance services and corporate finance services that in the event that the Companys shareholders approve the and these fees were reviewed and approved by the Committee reappointment of EY, this would be for a period of five years, under the terms of the policy.
Further details as to the nature of after which period, the Company would retender its external the services provided are set out in note 6 to the consolidated audit services.
The Committee further agreed that there were financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the Committees of appointment of EY as auditor to the Company.
All tender participants were notified Effectiveness of external auditors ofthe results of the Companys tender process in November 2013.
To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the external In addition, 2013 saw the appointment of a new external audit auditors provide information on the steps they have taken to ensure partner for the Company following the rotation of the previous objectivity and independence, including in relation to the provision partner at the conclusion of the 2012 audit in accordance with the of any non-audit services.
The Committee monitors the external requirements of the ethical standards of the Accounting Practices auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the Board.
The new external audit partner attended several of the exercise of their duties, and this informs the Committees decision on Committee meetings during the year and was responsible for the whether or not they should recommend reappointment on an annual management of both the half-year reviews and 2013 full-year audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets, apart from formal scheduled meetings, between three to four times during the The Committee has reviewed and confirmed the Companys policy year to discuss matters of process, relationships between the country governing the provision of audit and non-audit services provided audit teams as well as review of plans and completion progress.
by the auditor and their associates.
The policy clearly identifies Therecent external audit process provided considerable opportunity permitted and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to to compare points of auditor effectiveness between firms.
be followed for the approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with an expected fee in excess of US$100,000 Internal audit require the prior approval of the Committee.
The Committee During the year the Committee reviewed the requirement for the reviews statements on the independence and objectivity of the Company to establish an internal audit function.
It was agreed external auditor at least twice a year in order to satisfy itself that that the Companys development over the year warranted the independence and objectivity have been safeguarded.
establishment of an internal audit function, albeit on an outsourced basis initially.
56 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance The Committee delegated authority to undertake a tender for During the year, the Company undertook a bottom-up review internal audit services to the senior management team.
The Company operates a risk management process process ran in parallel with that of external audit services and the under which significant risks are identified, their likelihood and Committee delegated authority to management to establish impact considered and actions taken to manage those risks.
aselection committee which included the Chief Financial Officer, TheCommittee reviews the Companys risks every six months prior the Group Financial Controller and the Procurement & Contracts to a Board review, from which particular risks may be identified for Manager to oversee the process and agree the selection criteria further detailed presentation and discussion at the Board meetings.
A shortlist of appropriate participants The principal risks identified by the Company are set out on pages was selected and the parties presented their respective proposal 36 to 37. to the Selection Committee and the senior management team.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control Following the process, the Selection Committee recommended, systems in operation during the financial year and, where necessary and the Audit Committee approved, that Mazars LLP be appointed and appropriate, action has been taken to remedy any identified to provide the Companys internal auditor services for a period failings or weaknesses.
The following illustrates how the risk of12months from 1 January 2014. management process and the system of internal control operated Risk management and internal controls during 2013: The Board has delegated its responsibility for monitoring the Establishment The Audit Committee together with the Chief Financial Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its of a single Officer considered the merits of a single fully-integrated effectiveness on a continual basis to the Committee.
This system will enable the accounting Company to establish an integrated and an auditable The Companys system of internal control is designed to safeguard system authorisation process for procurement requisition and the Companys assets and to ensure the reliability of financial invoices.
The Committee supported managements information for internal and external use.
Any system of controls recommendation to implement a new financial system can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that which will facilitate improved controls within the business.
assets are safeguarded, transactions are correctly authorised Audit Committee The role of the Committee includes the review, update and recorded and that any material errors and irregularities are and approval of the annual internal audit plan, direction detected within a reasonable timeframe.
The Companys internal to the internal audit function, to external auditors and to management in the review of internal financial controls.
controls are therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk, recognising that not all risks can be eliminated and the cost The Committee alerts the Board to any emerging ofcontrol procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
issues and considers the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the procedures adopted by the Company prior to being Companys system of internal controls which covers financial, submitted to the Board for approval.
operational and risk management processes.
Lines of responsibility Year-end A formal process exists for year-end risk management have been clearly defined and a delegated authority schedule compliance compliance reporting, requiring the executive directors approved and implemented.
together with the senior management team to confirm their responsibilities for risk management and internal control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required from each Board member.
The requirement As detailed earlier, the requirement to establish an for an internal internal audit function was identified in view of the rapid audit function growth of the business.
The formal appointment of an internal audit function was made in early 2014.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Corporate Governance Report of the Audit Committee continued Anti-bribery and whistleblowing Audit Committee evaluation During the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys Before the year end, the Committee participated in an external processes and procedures in relation to the UK Bribery Act 2010 evaluation of itself and its responsibilities which was overseen the Act and obtained confirmation that these were being by external evaluator, Socia Limited.
The evaluation focused properly implemented.
The main emphasis during the year has on how the Committee was addressing significant changes been to integrate third-party due diligence into the Companys tothe regulatory environment affecting Audit Committees and contracting and procurement procedures and to ensure that thirdwhether members of the Committee were satisfied that it was party contractors comply with the Companys anti-bribery policy.
fulfilling all its duties and were given sufficient time to consider The Company has also broadened the remit of its third-party key matters affecting the business.
Committee members were due diligence process into its business development activities.
also asked whether they were satisfied with the advice obtained The Company is currently focusing on the development of from the Company on audit issues.
As a result of the evaluation, bespoke online training for all staff and key contractors and the a recommendation for the Committee was to focus on improving implementation of Gifts and Hospitality Register.
the ways in which it reported back to the Board, especially where some Board members were unable to attend and therefore receive The Company is committed to the highest standards of a verbal update.
A general review of the Committees Terms of business conduct and has adopted a whistleblowing policy as a Reference was also undertaken to ensure that they remained mechanism to support the achievement of this goal.
Employees appropriate and adequate to support the strategy of the business.
are encouraged to raise genuine concerns which are carefully and All members were comfortable with the level of advice and thoroughly investigated to assess what action, if any, should be openness from executive management.
Employees, Officers and business partners are able to raise any concerns in a confidential manner with either the compliance officer Jacqueline Knox who is the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Lyndon Powell independent non-executive director, or the Head of HR.
If employees or business partners do now wish to raise a concern directly with the Company, they may report itthrough Safecall, an independent company which provides analternative method of reporting concerns.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, no whistleblowing issues were raised.
58 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report of the HSE Committee Report of the HSE Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder This year has seen Ophir enter the most challenging Lyndon Powell operational period in its history, with multiple planned drilling HSE Committee campaigns.
The Committee is acutely aware that the safety Chairman of our employees, contractors and anyone associated with our operational activity is paramount.
It is also committed to Membership and attendance ensuring that the Companys operational activity has minimal The members of the Committee, the majority of whom are effect on the environment in which we operate.
independent non-executive directors, together with details of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended To address the increased activity, a number of steps have been 31 December 2013, are set out below: taken to enhance our HSE and CSR capacity and systems.
Committee members Meeting attendance During the year we appointed an international Security Lyndon Powell Committee Chairman 2 2 Manager and an HSE & CSR Manager in East Africa and a John Lander 2 2 similar candidate has been appointed in early 2014 across our 1 Bill Schrader 1 1 West African projects.
In addition, the Committee engaged 2 Alan Booth the services of Environmental Resources Management to carry 2 Vivien Gibney out an independent audit of Ophirs HSE system to ensure that it is fit for purpose.
The audit confirmed the systems suitability Former Committee members and provided a number of recommendations to further Jonathan Taylor 1 1 improve our HSE system, the most significant being to achieve 1 Bill Schrader was appointed a member of the committee on 6 June 2013. greater connectivity of HSE across the Company.
To capture 2 Alan Booth and Vivien Gibney were appointed members of the Committee these recommendations, the HSE Management Plan is being on14 November 2013.
No further meetings were held from 14 November 2013 amended and will be re-launched during the first half of 2014. to 31 December 2013.
A key principle of HSE effectiveness at Ophir is that all The Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have an employees and contractors appreciate HSE is everyones open invitation to attend all Committee meetings.
The promotion of this HSE culture is regarded as the Companys HSE Manager is invited to attend each meeting to a core element in achieving a safe and secure environment, present his report to the Committee.
Other senior members of staff and is introduced during each employees induction training and external advisors may be invited to attend as necessary.
to create an immediate HSE buy in effect.
This year has been more challenging with a rapidly-expanding work force, it has been necessary for additional HSE training to be included inthe training programme.
I can report that 2013 has been another positive year for HSEat Ophir, with no significant incidents, however we remain vigilant, as the raison detre of Ophir, frontier exploration, can produce unexpected risks.
A simple example of this, we are currently taking steps to extend Ophirs fit to travel policy to reduce the risks for the Companys workforce whilst travelling and working in locations where they may be exposed to elevated health hazards.
In addition, before the commencement of any specific drilling programme the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Corporate Governance Report of the HSE Committee continued Role and responsibilities of the HSE Committee workforce involved is taken through an in-depth process The role of the Committee is to ensure that appropriate policies and of HSEeducation and alignment to ensure adherence to systems are developed and implemented in order to identify and all policies and procedures.
These are effective mitigation manage health, safety, social, security and environmental matters measures inthe effort to maximise safety.
within all the Companys operations.
This year has seen the final steps taken before implementation The Committees full Terms of Reference are available on the of a new travel system.
As an enhancement to our duty of care Companys website at www.
com about-us boardresponsibility to our employees, we will shortly appoint a single committees hse.
travel management company for all our travel arrangements HSE Committee highlights worldwide.
This will provide more reliable tracking of individuals As in previous years, a key focus area for the Committee during the and allow for easier emergency assistance if required.
year ended 31 December 2013 has been maritime security for the We have continued the development of our CSR strategy, and Companys drilling campaigns in East and West Africa.
While there I am now able to report that we have projects either currently has been a significant reduction in Somali piracy activity overall in running or planned in all our main areas of operations.
Projects East Africa, the Committee ensured that, working closely with vessel are assessed with a bottom-up approach to ensure that we owners, the appropriate maritime security and safety plans were are providing maximum gain for the communities from the developed and implemented for its drilling campaigns in Ghana resources available.
All projects are screened for their sensitivity and Tanzania, the latter including the modus operandi for the use and ethical appropriateness.
ofarmed personnel during drilling offshore Tanzania.
Planning is well advanced in this area for the drilling campaigns scheduled for 2014.
There have been a number of changes to members of the Committee during 2013.
Firstly, Jonathan Taylor, a founding The Committee continued to review the policies on health, safety Director of Ophir, retired in June.
Jon had been a member and environment and CSR during the year to ensure that as the ofthe HSE Committee since its inception and his contribution Company grows so too does the development and refinement to its work has been enormous.
Bill Schrader joined the Committee in June 2013 to replace The Committee also received information on other policies being Jon Taylor.
John Lander retired on 28 February 2014.
John implemented by the Company.
To provide assurance that the too had been a long-time member of the Committee and Company was performing HSE management appropriately, the has been unswerving in his useful and constructive advice.
Committee commissioned an independent audit to benchmark As a proactive move to support the increasing operational Ophirs HSE Management System HSE MS against industry best tempo, and in response to John Landers scheduled retirement, practice Oil and Gas Producers OGP 210 standards.
Alan Booth and Vivien Gibney were appointed as additional members to the Committee in November 2013.
In the future, the Committee is looking to provide additional support to the Board by widening its remit and overseeing the mitigation of other risks.
Lyndon Powell HSE Committee Chairman 60 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance The audit findings were: HSE Committee evaluation Stakeholders including institutional and retail shareholders, voting Objective Conclusion agencies, environmental groups and local communities are placing Ophir has the appropriate The Ophir HSE MS framework and content is increasing importance on companies reporting on their respective key programme and broadly in line with recognised good practice.
greenhouse gas emissions, policy on human rights and whether system elements in place The content of HSE MS is generally fit for the operations of their companies are being managed in a socially to deliver sound HSE purpose to control Ophirs key HSE risks responsible manner and demonstrate their ability to operate in a performanceglobally sustainable manner over the long term.
Further details on how the The HSE function is organised The existing corporate HSE function has a to effectively deliver those defined structure and accountabilities with Company meets these requirements are set out in the Strategic programmes and systems lines of communication associated with HSE Report on pages 38 to 43. being clearly identified.
Given the current level To this end, the Committee participated in an external evaluation of activity, the headcount in the function of itself and its responsibilities which was overseen by external appears appropriate evaluator, Socia Limited.
The evaluation focused on ascertaining Systems are able to measure During the review no material issues were and monitor implementation identified in relation to the level of control whether the members believed that the Committee was of the HSE MS at country and around operational HSE risks on the ground adequately fulfilling all of its duties.
This included consideration site level in Ghana ofwhether the Committees composition was appropriate, whether satisfactory advice was being received from the Company and the level of engagement with and advice and guidance from During the year, the Committee also considered the following: external advisors was provided to the Committee.
As a result of the evaluation, a recommendation for the Committee to consider HSE key performance indicators: future non-financial risks was proposed and the Committee Crisis management plans, exercise and training: therefore intends to consider the merits of creating an Operational Risk Committee during 2014 to address these risks.
Routine HSE training for the Board, all employees and contractors: Auditing of contractors HSE systems prior to engagement Appropriateness of undertaking HSE audits of joint venture partners: Reports on HSE incidents within the Company, including aparticular focus on lost time injuries and the results of any investigations: HSE and CSR external communications: and Approval of the 2014 HSE budget for submission to the Board.
Further information on the Companys approach to corporate responsibility and HSE matters can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 38 to 43.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Corporate Governance Report of the Nomination Committee Report of the Nomination Committee Chairman Nicholas Smith Dear Shareholder Nomination Committee 2013 was the year that Ophir Energy completed its transition Chairman from a private company to a high-ranking member of the FTSE 250.
The Nomination Committee theCommittee has Membership and attendance been involved in a number of ways, withNick Cooper being The members of the Nomination Committee, together with details appointed as a member of the Committee during the year.
of their individual attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2013, are set out below: First, Board composition at both executive and non-executive levels.
Nick Cooper has built a new executive team as the two Committee members Meeting attendance founder directors phased themselves out from the business.
Nicholas Smith Committee Chairman 6 6 1 Twoexecutive directors, Lisa Mitchell, as Chief Financial Officer, Nick Cooper 2 2 and Dennis McShane as Executive Director of Corporate Strategy Ronald Blakely 6 6 2 were appointed in 2013.
Lisa joined us post listing and her Dennis McShane 0 1 2 well-deserved promotion was planned from the outset.
Dennis Lyndon Powell 5 5 had been a nonexecutive director of Ophir since 2007, latterly 1 Nick Cooper was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on6June2013 as Senior Independent Director.
When Dennis became available, 2 Dennis McShane was a member of the Nomination Committee until the Committee supported this appointment given his familiarity 18February 2013 and was replaced by Lyndon Powell on the same date.
with Ophir and his background in strategy.
Theirrespective Dennis McShane was unable to attend the one meeting he was authorised to attend due to overseas travel.
backgrounds have allowed them to contribute to the Board from day one.
There is now a strong executive team below Board level The Board considers all members of the Committee who served too to support our growing business andaid succession.
during the year to be independent, including the Chairman of the Board, who was independent on appointment.
On the non-executive front, there were three appointments in 2013 that reflected the outcomes of the 2012 Board Further to his appointment as executive director in February 2013, evaluation and the Committees views on the future expertise Dennis McShane stepped down from his position as Chairman required from your Board members.
ofthe Committee, and was replaced by Nicholas Smith.
The executive appointments described earlier were sourced Role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee internally.
For our non-executives, we instructed Egon Zehnder The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the to assist in the search and Bill Schrader was identified as Companys website at www.
com about-us boarda strong candidate due to his significant commercial and committees nomination and is fully compliant with section B.
2.1 operational skills, which the Board was keen to attain.
AlanBooth and Vivien Gibney both came to us through Nomination Committee activities market contacts.
Alans track record as a sub-surface explorer, The key focus of the Committee during 2013, as for the prior year, discoverer and successful Chief Executive are well known.
has been succession planning and Board composition.
Inparticular, Viviens background in the oil industry, together with her the Committee has strengthened the skills, knowledge and recent legal and remuneration background and overall Board experience on the Board with three new non-executive appointments experience, strengthened the Boards skills and experience and two executive appointments.
The Committee has also inthese areas.
In summary, the Committee believes the considered ways in which the senior management team could be selection process and current Board composition to be enhanced, either by providing appropriate training and mentoring appropriate to Ophirs market positioning.
toits current members or by making furtherappointments.
62 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Secondly, the Committee has been considering executive During the reporting period, the Committee engaged Egon Zehnder and non-executive succession planning.
We have plans International to help identify potential non-executive directors.
inplace for any unexpected short and mid-term changes to A detailed job description and a list of required experience and thesenior levels of the executive team and this process is now capabilities were prepared to ensure that the Board maintained an being extended to our mid-level executives as part of their appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Egon Zehnder was also career planning.
As for the non-executives, the appointments instructed to identify candidates solely on merit and suitability and during the year formed part of the Committees ongoing did not provide any other services to the Company during the period.
succession plans for the Board.
In addition, in anticipation Diversity ofJohn Landers retirement, the Committee has reviewed the The Board is committed to equal opportunities in its recruitment and membership of all Standing Committees and Viviens previous succession planning policies and continues to welcome the current experience supported her appointment as Chairman of the emphasis on diversity in general.
The Company remains dedicated Remuneration Committee with effect from 14 November to encouraging diversity at all levels of the business, acknowledging 2013.
Refreshment is always kept under review but this is not that a more diverse workforce, with the right mix of skills, experience, expected to be a major consideration for 2014. culture, ethnicity, nationality, gender and knowledge can make a Diversity continues to remain an important agenda point valuable contribution to the Company.
Astatement of the Companys for the Committee and our policy is set out separately as policy on diversity is set out in the Strategic Report on page 42. part of the Strategic Report on page 42.
As mentioned in my The Committee also has due regard to the benefits of diversity on the statement on page 44, we take this very seriously and led with Board, including gender but also takes into account other aspects of the makeup of our Board and senior management.
I will refer diversity to achieve a proper balance.
The overriding criterion is always, to our progress on this again in future reports.
The Committee stresses that Board appointments are Lastly, Board effectiveness.
Following on from our Board majorly based on the contribution each member brings to the Board effectiveness review in 2012, the Committee appointed and not to merely satisfy any prescribed quota requirements.
SociaLimited to review the Board Committee process When searching for candidates for Board positions, the Committee in2013.
Recommendations as to how the Committees will only use the services of those executive search firms who have maybe used more effectively are now being considered signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search  2014.
Firms as recommended by Lord Davies Report.
As at the date of this report, women constitute at least 20% Nicholas Smith oftheBoard.
Nomination Committee Chairman Nomination Committee evaluation Before the year end, the Committee participated in an externally facilitated evaluation led by Alex Cameron of Socia Limited.
Following interviews with the Chairman of the Committee and observations made at Committee meetings, the evaluation recommended that the Committees priority should remain focused on succession planning as the Company continues to grow and make significant demands on the executive leadership team.
Socia Limited did not provide any other services nor had any other connection with the Company during the reporting period.
