Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 36 Corporate Governance Introduction Compliance Management Board The Board is committed to ensuring that The Board considers that, throughout The Board delegates management of the high standards of corporate governance theperiod under review, the Group has business to the Chief Executive.
To assist are maintained by the Group.
complied with the provisions recommended in this, the Chief Executive has created a in Section 1 of the Governance Code, Management Board that consists of the The Board endorses the main and other than in respect of: Executive Directors, the Group Operations supporting principles and the provisions Director, the Group Technical Director and set out in the UK Corporate Governance Provision D. 2.1 with the appointment the Group Human Resources & Brand Code the Governance Code except of Nigel Keen as Chairman of the Director and the Divisional MDs.
However, as more fully explained below, The Management Board meets monthly The Boards policies and procedures are Thomas Geitner will take over as either physically or by video or telephone documented in the Board Reference File Remuneration Committee Chairman conference and focuses on Group wide that sets out the roles and delegated at the close of the Companys performance and risk management authorities applying to the Directors, forthcoming AGM: and andstrategy.
theBoard and the Board Committees.
The Board Reference File is reviewed Provision B.
1.2 as during the year Operation of the Board annually by the Board as part of the lessthan half the Board, excluding The Board is responsible to shareholders annual governance review undertaken theChairman, comprised independent for delivering sustainable incremental bythe Chairman.
As explained shareholder value through entrepreneurial above, following the recent changes leadership within a framework of controls Board constitution the constitution of the Board is for managing risk.
The Board sets the In late 2010, prior to Oxford Instruments nowcompliant.
Groups strategy, maintains the policy promotion to the FTSE 250, the Nomination and decision making framework in which Committee reviewed its Board Development Preservation of value this strategy is implemented, verifies programme and put in place a multiyear The basis on which the Group generates thatthe necessary financial and human plan to allow for an orderly refreshing and preserves value over the longer resources are in place to meet strategic ofits NonExecutive Directors over this termand the strategy for delivering the aims, monitors performance against key extended period.
This programme is under objectives of the Group are to be found in financial and nonfinancial indicators, annual review.
The Board Development the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives oversees the system of risk management programme ensures that the constitution Statement and Operational Review.
and sets values and standards in ofthe Board is compliant with the governance matters.
Governance Code following the Companys Board of Directors and admission to the FTSE 250. managementstructure The details of the way the Board operates, Board of Directors including a schedule of matters reserved In line with the programme, Bernard Taylor The Board currently comprises the to the Board for decision, are set out in stepped down from the Board at last years Chairman, five NonExecutive Directors and the Board Reference File.
AGM and Thomas Geitner has joined the three Executive Directors.
The Directors Board as an Independent NonExecutive The Board retains control over strategy, biographies and details of length of Director in January 2013.
In June 2013 investments and capital expenditure, and service are shown on pages 32 to 33.
Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the limits the decisions which can be taken Allthe Directors have written letters of Board as an Independent NonExecutive by management in the areas of strategic appointment that have been approved Director and, at this years AGM, Mike and financial management and reporting, bythe Board and which are available Hughes will not seek reelection as a capital structure, corporate actions, forinspection at the Companys Annual NonExecutive Director having served mergers and acquisitions, major contracts General Meeting.
and other commitments, litigation and The Chairman is responsible for leadership regulatory proceedings, remuneration Since 2010, the Company has been through of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and share incentive plans.
a strong period of growth and the executive on all aspects of its role.
The division team has reorganised the business into a Where the Board delegates authority to ofresponsibilities between the role of divisional structure.
At this years annual management it is on a structured basis, Chairman and the Chief Executive has review, in light of the Groups new divisional which requires that proper management been set out in writing and agreed by structure, the Nomination Committee oversight exists at the appropriate level.
recommended that the Executive The Board meets on a regular basis, representation on the Board be the Chief The Board has delegated Group atleast nine times a year, and otherwise Executive and the Group Finance Director.
responsibility for the management of asrequired.
Of the nine regular meetings, Accordingly, Charles Holroyd has agreed health, safety and the environment to typically six are held at Group locations, to step down from the Board at the Charles Holroyd and he reports to the and the remaining three are held by forthcoming AGM.
Board on these matters at each meeting.
Resolutions for the election of Directors will be put to shareholders at the Companys forthcoming AGM which, when passed, will deliver a Board which meets the requirements of Provision B.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 37 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Board meetings involve reviews of financial independence criteria at the time of his Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the and business performance against the plan appointment as set out in the Governance Board as an Independent NonExecutive approved by the Board.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Director on 11 June 2013.
Jennifer is a review, both at Group level and also for Committee and is also currently Chairman graduate of Imperial College, London and each of the business units, is embedded of the Remuneration Committee as the has a masters degree in physics from the in the reporting system.
On a rotating Board considered that whilst the Company University of Manitoba and is a chartered basis, the Board receives presentations was a SmallCap company it was appropriate engineer.
She has extensive international from the business units and key functional and necessary for the Chairman of business experience, having spent over areas enabling it to explore specific issues theBoard to also be Chairman of the 30 years in large companies operating in more detail.
Any matter requiring a Remuneration Committee.
The Board has across the globe, particularly in emerging decision by the Board will be supported recruited a new NonExecutive Director, markets.
She has held senior positions by a precirculated paper analysing all Thomas Geitner, who has the appropriate that include Chief Information Officer at relevant aspects of the proposal and mix of skills to take over the Chair of the F. HoffmannLa Roche in Switzerland, and recommending a course of action.
Remuneration Committee immediately Technology Director at Barclaycard.
Her after the forthcoming AGM.
Nigel Keen international experience will strengthen Board papers are distributed in advance also serves as Chairman of Oxford the skills and expertise of the Board.
of the relevant meeting in sufficient time Instruments Pension Trustee Limited, Jennifer is a member of the Audit, to allow the Directors to prepare for theTrustee of the Companys UKdefined Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Minutes of Committee meetings benefit pension scheme.
TheBoard of are circulated to the relevant Directors.
Thomas Geitner was appointed to the theCompany and the Board of the Trustee Inthe very few instances when a Director Board as an Independent NonExecutive to the Pension Scheme have each has not been able to attend Board or Director on 15 January 2013.
Thomas has independently considered whether it is Committee meetings, his comments on the extensive international experience in the appropriate to have the Chairman of the papers to be considered at the meeting technology and engineering sectors, having Company as Chairman to the Board of are communicated in advance to the spent more than 30 years in businesses the Trustee of the Pension Scheme, relevant Chairman.
He was most notwithstanding the potential conflicts recently President of the Adhesives Division The NonExecutive Directors meet without ofinterest inherent in the same person of Henkel AG&Co KGaA.
He was on the the Executive Directors at least annually, holding both these positions, and they board of BBC Worldwide, the BBCs with the Chairman leading these meetings.
each have unanimously confirmed that maincommercial subsidiary, as a The NonExecutive Directors also meet they believe that it is in the interest of NonExecutive Director between 2007 annually without the Chairman in allparties for this to continue.
Previously, he was the CEO attendance.
The Deputy Chairman Mike Brady, Deputy Chairman and New Businesses & Innovation and main chairsthese meetings.
NonExecutive Director, has been a board director of Vodafone.
Prior to The Company Secretary and the Company member of the Board since June 1995.
Vodafone, Thomas led a number of Secretarys Office are responsible for Heis Professor of Oncological Imaging engineering businesses including at implementing Board procedures and inthe Department of Oncology at the RWEGroup where he was responsible foradvising the Board on corporate University of Oxford, having retired as .
He is a graduate governance matters.
BPProfessor of Information Engineering, of the Technische Universitt Munchen and is one of the UKs leading engineers.
Thomas is a Board balance and independence He brings a depth of technical expertise member of the Audit, Remuneration and The Governance Code requires the Board to Board discussions.
His technical expertise Nomination Committees and is to be should be of sufficient size that the balance as the only NonExecutive Director from appointed Chairman of the Remuneration of skills and experience is appropriate for a scientific profession and the value of Committee after the AGM.
the requirements of the business and that expertise to Board discussions, the Mike Hughes, Senior Independent that there is a balance of Executive and breadth of his professional and business NonExecutive Director, has been a NonExecutive Directors such that no interests unrelated to the Group and the member of the Board since November individual or small group of individuals composition of the Board generally leads 2004.
He is currently the Chairman of can dominate the Boards decision making.
the Board to conclude that it is appropriate EATechnology Ltd and a NonExecutive The composition of the Board and the that he should continue in office.
Although director of South Staffordshire WaterLtd.
combination of diverse backgrounds and the Board continues to value Mikes input Previously he held senior management expertise of the NonExecutive Directors and does not regard this input as being positions within GEC before becoming meet these principles.
less valuable as a result of his tenure as CEO of Midlands Electricity plc and then aDirector of the Company, the Board has, Nigel Keen, Chairman, has been a member Executive Vice President of GPU Inc in the light of guidance by the Governance of the Board since February 1999.
He has International Operations Group.
Mike is a Code, determined that he should not be a degree in engineering from Cambridge member of the Audit, Remuneration and considered independent.
Mike is a member University, is a Fellow of the Institute of Nomination Committees.
Mike will be of the Nomination Committee.
Chartered Accountants and of the Institute retiring from the Board at the Companys of Engineering and Technology and has forthcoming AGM.
been involved in the formation and development of high technology businesses for more than 30 years.
He fulfilled the Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 38 Corporate Governance continued Board balance and independence Board development and evaluation sought during the year.
The appointment continued Board development and removal of the Company Secretary Jock Lennox was appointed to the Board On appointment, Directors undertake an are matters for the Board as a whole.
as an Independent NonExecutive Director induction process which is designed to Board evaluation on 1 April 2009.
Prior to that he was a develop knowledge and understanding In light of the provisions of Section B.
6.2 Senior Audit Partner at Ernst & Young ofthe Groups businesses through of the Governance Code which expects where he gained extensive experience visitsto various Group operating sites, that an externally facilitated evaluation advising clients in a variety of industries on discussion of relevant technology, as ofthe Board be carried out at least financial reporting, financing, transactions wellas product demonstrations, briefings triennially, John Stopford, an emeritus and international expansion.
The Board from management and familiarisation professor of the London Business School, believes that Jocks skills, experience with investor perceptions of the Group.
carried out a light touch external andknowledge enhance and maintain This induction is supported by briefing evaluation of the governance review aneffective Board and provide a well papers prepared by the Company process in 2011.
He found that the qualified Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Major shareholders are process described below effectively Jock is Chairman of the Audit Committee provided with an opportunity to meet reviews the mechanics of the operation and is a member of the Remuneration and new NonExecutive Directors.
of the Board and he found the written Nomination Committees.
Jock has agreed The operating business units senior statement on governance each Director to take over as Senior Independent management teams present to the completes a very helpful input.
His Director at the close of the AGM.
NonExecutive observation was that the Board was Further information on each of the Directors are encouraged to meet individual functional and effective.
NonExecutive Directors is to be members of the senior management For the year ended 31 March 2013 the Board foundinthe Directors biographies team and have done so during the year has completed its annual effectiveness onpages 32 to 33.
evaluation exercise, including a specific biography can be found on the Throughout the year, NonExecutive review of the effectiveness of its principal OxfordInstruments website, Directors attend Oxford Instruments events, Committees and members.
internal exercise under the control of the Chairman using a detailed questionnaire Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary and her office completed by all Directors in relation to In the opinion of the Board, Mike Hughes, act as advisers to the Board on matters the key areas of Board accountability Jock Lennox, Thomas Geitner and Jennifer concerning governance and ensure andthe arrangements in place to enable Allerton are independent.
Mike Brady compliance with Board procedures.
All effective focus on these areas.
Topics isno longer considered independent in Directors have access to this advice and covered included Group strategy, accordance with the guidelines set out aprocedure also exists for Directors to performance, delegation and accountability, inthe Governance Code.
The Board take independent professional advice at success, development and reward, Board considers that they are each independent the Groups expense.
No such advice was and Committee composition, Board in character and judgement and do not have relationships which are likely to affect their judgement.
This opinion is based on current Attendance at meetings participation and performance on both the Board and Board Committees including No one other than the Committee Chairman and members is entitled to be present at consideration of the length of service at a meeting of the Nomination, Audit or Remuneration Committee, but others may attend Oxford Instruments plc.
by invitation of the Committee.
No Director votes on matters where he has a conflict of interest.
Further details of the individual Committees activities are described on the Term of appointment of next page.
 The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Each NonExecutive Director was appointed 4 Board Committee meetings for the year to 31 March 2013 : for an initial term of one year.
In line with Main Audit Remuneration Nomination provision B.
7.1 of the Governance Code, Board Committee Committee Committee the Board has determined that all Directors of the Board are to be subject to annual Number of meetings held 10 6 5 4 reelection by shareholders and accordingly 1 Nigel Keen 10 6 5 4 the appropriate resolutions will be put 1 1 1 toshareholders at the Companys Jonathan Flint 10 6 1 2 forthcoming AGM.
1 Kevin Boyd 10 6 1 Charles Holroyd 10 6 1 1 Mike Brady 10 6 5 4 Mike Hughes 8 5 4 4 Jock Lennox 10 6 5 4 2 Thomas Geitner 2 1 1 3 Bernard Taylor 4 3 3 3 Notes 1 Attended by invitation.
4 Jennifer Allerton was appointed to the Board after 31 March 2013. Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 39 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 induction and training, internal control During the year, the Board and the Remuneration Committee and risk management.
In addition, each Nomination Committee have reviewed The Remuneration Committee comprises Director has prepared a written statement the composition of the Board.
The length all the Independent NonExecutive Directors concerning governance of the Company of service of its NonExecutive Directors, and the Chairman of the Board.
The and has discussed the statement with the the promotion of the Company into the Chairman of the Board, Nigel Keen, who Chairman at the individual onetoone FTSE 250 and the changing requirements fulfilled the independence criteria at the interviews which the Chairman holds with of the Governance Code for FTSE 350 time of his appointment as set out in the each Director.
The Chief Executive is also companies, together with further reflection Governance Code, is Chairman of the involved in the process by giving his input on diversity within the Company, have Remuneration Committee because the on the way the Board helps him in his ledit to conclude that changes to the Board considers that in a SmallCap role.
The output from these evaluations membership of the Board and its company it is essential that the Chairman allows the Chairman to review objectively Committees need further consideration.
be involved in setting remuneration policy.
the overall balance and effectiveness A subcommittee has been established The Company entered the FTSE 250 in ofthe Board.
The NonExecutive whose terms of reference are, with the September 2011 and the Board recognised Directors meet annually to appraise help of executive search consultants that it was now appropriate to appoint theChairmans performance.
MWM Consulting and Korn Ferry, to aRemuneration Committee Chairman evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge who was not also Chairman of the Board.
Board Committees and experience on the Board and to Accordingly, the Nomination Committee The Board has formed the following identify appropriate candidates for has followed due process to identify a Committees: Nomination, Remuneration, NonExecutive Director positions on the NonExecutive Director with an appropriate Audit and Administration.
Accordingly, using information blend of skills to make a credible successor ithas gathered, taking into account to Nigel Keen as Chairman of the Membership of Board Committees, which diversity within the Board and bearing in Remuneration Committee.
As noted above, is set out on pages 32 to 33, is determined mind the desire to find a successor to the in January 2013, the Board appointed as by the Board and is reviewed regularly.
current Chairman of the Remuneration an Independent NonExecutive Director, The written terms of reference of the Board Committee, descriptions of the role and Thomas Geitner.
He will take over as Committees are reviewed annually by desired capabilities for candidates were Chairman of the Remuneration Committee each Committee and the Board and are drawn up to help in the search of new at the close of the AGM in September 2013. available on the Companys website at NonExecutive Directors.
The Committee In the meantime, Thomas Geitner and www.
com investors developed shortlists of qualifying Nigel Keen are working closely together and from the Company on request.
Candidates met with the on remuneration matters.
The members Theywill be on display at the Annual Chairman and the Deputy Chairman and of the Committee are appointed by General Meeting.
a final selection of potential appointees theBoard.
Following Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible these meetings, the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises for recommending to the Board the considered each Directors feedback and allthe NonExecutive Directors, under remuneration packages for Executive made a final recommendation to the Board the chairmanship of the Chairman of Directors and the bonus and share concerning any further appointment.
The Nomination Committee optionstrategy for the Groups executive isresponsible for assisting the Board Following this process, the Committee management.
Independent professional inthe formal selection and appointment has during the year recommended the advice is sought when considered of Directors and considers succession appointment of Thomas Geitner to the necessary.
Under its terms of reference planning for the Board.
It also considers Board as an Independent NonExecutive the Chairman of the Board may be potential candidates and recommends Director and future Chairman of the Chairman of the Committee.
The Board appointments of new Directors to the Remuneration Committee.
His appointment asa whole is responsible for fixing the Board.
The appointments are based on to the Board commenced 15 January 2013 remuneration of the NonExecutive merit and against objective criteria including with his appointment as Chairman of Directors, including the Chairman.
time available and the commitment that theRemuneration Committee to start The Chief Executive is invited to attend will be required of the potential Director.
atthe close of this years AGM.
Since the Remuneration Committee meetings as year end, Jennifer Allerton was appointed There is a formal, rigorous and transparent deemed appropriate, for example when on 11June 2013 as an Independent procedure for the appointment of new consideration is being given to the NonExecutive Director.
NonExecutive Directors to the Board, performance of other Executive Directors the prime responsibility for which is The Nomination Committee recommends and on significant Group wide changes in delegated to the Nomination Committee.
to the Board whether a NonExecutive salary structure and terms and conditions Each appointment process begins with Directors appointment should be renewed affecting other employees at Senior anevaluation of the balance of skills, each year, taking into account the Executive level.
Further details of the knowledge and experience existing on performance of the individual.
work of the Remuneration Committee are the Board that is effected through a series included in the Directors Remuneration The Nomination Committee also annually of oneonone meetings between the Report set out on pages 43 to 52. reviews the performance of the Chief Committee Chairman and Directors.
Executive and succession planning within TheNomination Committee takes external the business.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 40 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee Chairman reports arrangements to identify, report and The Audit Committee comprises all the the outcome of meetings to the Board manage any conflicts of interest and Independent NonExecutive Directors and and the Board receives minutes of all theoverall extent of nonaudit services is chaired by Jock Lennox.
The Chairman Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit provided by the external auditors.
In and Deputy Chairman of the Board and Committee has unrestricted access to addition, to safeguard auditor objectivity members of senior management such as Group documents and information, as and independence when the external the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director well as to employees of the Group and auditors provides nonaudit services, the and Group Audit and Risk Manager are the external auditor.
Chairman of the Audit Committee reviews invited to attend all or part of any meetings the provision of nonaudit services by the The Audit Committee reviews all public or to present such reports as are required external auditors where the proposed fee statements containing financial information, for the Committee to discharge its duties.
exceeds 20,000 and with formal Audit including the half year and annual financial The external auditors are invited to attend Committee approval where fees are statements and interim management meetings of the Committee on a regular 50,000 or above.
Competitor quotes are statements, together with the related basis, including at the half year, at the obtained where the proposed fee is in Stock Exchange announcements, having planning stage before the audit and after excess of 100,000. received information on the accounting the audit at the reporting stage.
At least principles, policies and practices adopted Details of audit fees, together with fees once a year the Committee meets with in the Groups accounts, changes proposed for nonaudit services for the year, are the external auditors without the to those principles, policies and practices, set out in Note 3 page 74 to the Executive Directors present.
significant accounting issues and contingent FinancialStatements.
The primary objective of the Audit liabilities affecting the Group, potential tax The Audit Committee is required to assist Committee is to assist the Board of contingencies and the Groups compliance the Group Board to fulfil its responsibilities Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities with statutory tax obligations.
relating to the adequacy and effectiveness relating to external financial reporting The Audit Committee is responsible for of the financial control environment.
This and associated announcements, oversight the development, implementation and includes consideration of the adequacy of of the external audit process including monitoring of the Groups policy on both the resourcing and the plans of the consideration of the appointment, removal external audit.
During the external audit, Internal Audit function.
and independence of the Groups external the key areas of judgement that were auditors, the resourcing and plans of the To fulfil these duties the Committee reviews: debated with the auditors related to Internal Audit function and the adequacy accounting for acquisitions, impairment the Groups risk framework and risk and effectiveness of the financial control considerations for intangible assets, management policies: environment.
The Audit Committee has patents, pensions and revenue recognition.
recommended to the Board that in light any internal control findings reported These matters were resolved satisfactorily.
of organisational changes within KPMG by the external auditor: The Audit Committee reserves oversight that the contract for the external audit responsibility for monitoring the the Internal Audit functions terms of process be switched from KPMG Audit Plc independence and objectivity of the reference, reporting lines and access to to KPMG LLP and that a resolution to external auditors.
the Audit Committee and all members thiseffect be put to this years Annual of the Board, and its plans and the General Meeting.
The Audit Committee A review takes place annually of the outcomes of the planned activity: has noted the Financial Reporting Councils performance of the external auditors recommendation that FTSE350 companies following the completion of the annual audit.
Internal Audit reports on key audit should put the audit services contract To assess the effectiveness of the external areas and significant control outto tender periodically and will review auditors, the Audit Committee reviews: environment deficiencies: and whether to tender at the next lead the external auditors fulfilment of the reports on the systems of financial partner rotation.
agreed audit plan and variations from controls and financial risk management.
The Audit Committees terms of reference the plan: The Groups Business Malpractice Policy include all matters indicated by the the robustness and perceptiveness comprises an internal process that has been Governance Code.
The terms of reference ofthe auditors in their handling of key communicated directly to all employees are considered annually by the Audit accounting and audit judgements: and bywhich employees can raise a concern, Committee and are then referred to the including concerns relating to fraud, damage Board for approval.
The Audit Committee the external auditors comments to the environment, criminal activity or structure requires the inclusion of one inrespect of financial controls.
danger to health and safety, in the member with relevant recent financial To fulfil its responsibility regarding the knowledge that it will be taken seriously, experience, currently the Committee independence of the external auditors, treated as confidential and that no action Chairman, and expects all Audit Committee the Audit Committee reviews the changes will be taken against them.
There is also members to be financially literate.
in key external audit staff in the external provision within the Policy for employees auditors plan for the current year, the to raise concerns directly with the Senior arrangements for daytoday management Independent Director.
The Policy is of the audit relationship, a report from reviewed annually by the Committee.
the external auditors describing their Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 41 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Administration Committee delegated by the Board to the Executive isachieved.
A continuous process of risk The Administration Committee consists Directors.
This process has been in place assessment allows audits to respond of a minimum of two Directors and deals for the year under review and up to the expeditiously to changes in the Groups with items of a routine and administrative date of approval of the Annual Report business and risk environment.
The Board receives a summary and Accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by control deficiencies identified during an outlining all matters decided by the the Board of Directors and accords with internal audit engagement are addressed Administrative Committee since the the Turnbull principles.
by management through the development previous Board Meeting.
The findings of Details of all major risks identified and the the financial and nonfinancial internal mitigating actions in place are reported to Annual General Meeting AGM audits and the status of the corrective and reviewed by the Board.
The Principal The AGM is an opportunity for the Board action plans are reported to the Audit Risks page 26 gives an overview of the to meet shareholders.
At its AGM, the Committee or Board biannually.
major risks and uncertainties faced by Group complies with the provisions of the the Group.
A standard process is in place A review of the Groups assurance Governance Code relating to the disclosure throughout the Group that requires the arrangements is performed at least of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions senior management of each business to annually to determine whether it continues and the attendance of Committee identify significant business risks and to to be fit for purpose.
The Group arranges for the classify them both as to probability and determined that a risk manager was now Annual Reports and Financial Statements potential impact.
Once identified, mitigating needed and accordingly a Group Audit & and related papers to be posted on its action, where possible, is formulated and Risk Manager with specialist knowledge website and, where shareholders have responsibility within the management of internal audit was appointed in July 2012. elected to receive paper copies, posted team assigned.
On a regular basis each He, together with the Chairman of the toshareholders so as to allow at least business reviews and updates its risk Audit Committee, has put in place the 20working days for consideration prior summary which is then reported to the process described above.
The next AGM will be held Chief Executive.
If a material risk changes review determined that the structure on10 September 2013 at the Groups or arises, the Managing Director of the implemented during the year is effective offices in Tubney, Oxfordshire.
business reports this in writing to the for the size and complexity of the Group.
Chief Executive at which time there is Investor relations adiscussion on the adequacy of the Internal control The Group places considerable mitigating actions taken.
The Board has accountability for importance on regular communications reviewing and approving the adequacy with its shareholders with whom it has In addition, the Board considers risks to the andeffectiveness of internal controls anongoing programme of dialogue.
Groups strategic objectives which are not operated by the Group, including Allshareholders are encouraged to addressed within the Groups businesses financial, operational and compliance participate in the AGM at which the and develops appropriate actions to controls and risk management.
The Chairman and Chief Executive present manage and mitigate these risks.
management of each business is anoverview of the Groups business and responsible for risk management and review the results and make comments Internal audit and assurance control within their business and, through on strategy and current business activity.
The Groups Assurance function has the Management Board, implementing responsibility for independently assessing The NonExecutive Directors meet Board policies on risk and control.
the adequacy and effectiveness of the informally with shareholders both before management of significant risk areas and The internal control framework includes and after the AGM and respond to acts as a third line of defence behind central direction, oversight and risk shareholder queries and requests.
operational managements front line and management of the key activities within TheChairman and the Senior Independent own assurance activities.
As part of this framework Director make themselves available to comprises several teams and focuses on there is a financial planning process meet shareholders, as required.
the areas of finance, operations, health & which includes a three year planning All Group announcements are posted on the safety, research & development, human model and the preparation of an annual Group website, www.
Group Internal Audit, budget approved by the Board.
The com investors, as soon as they are released.
headed by the Group Audit & Risk results of the business units are reported The Investor Relations section of the Manager, performs internal audits under monthly and compared with the budget.
website provides financial and other an audit programme approved by the Forecasts are also prepared monthly.
information on the Group and the website Audit Committee and focuses primarily Control activities include policies and itself carries additional information on the on the financial systems and processes practices covering appropriate authorisation Groups products, services and markets.
The Group Audit & Risk and approval of transactions, the application Manager has direct access and a reporting of financial reporting standards and reviews Risk management line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of significant judgements and financial Within the Group there is an ongoing Audits in the nonfinancial areas are performance.
Financial, regulatory and embedded process for identifying, performed by the Groups functional operational controls, procedures and risk evaluating and managing the significant heads under programmes approved by activities across the Group are reviewed risks faced by the Group.
Coordination between the teams by the Groups Assurance function.
management of this process has been ensures that the required risk coverage Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 42 Corporate Governance continued Internal control continued structure and result in a Group the Board receives regular updates The internal control framework complies financial budget which is considered ontreasury, tax, property, pensions, with the Turnbull guidance and has been and approved by the Board: insurance, litigation, human resources, designed to manage rather than eliminate corporate social responsibility, business the businesses prepare monthly material risks to the achievement of ethics and health and safety matters: management accounts which strategic and business objectives and compare the actual operating result authorisation limits are set at canprovide only reasonable, and not with both the budget and the prior appropriate levels throughout the absolute, assurance against material year.
The businesses also prepare Group: compliance with these limits misstatement or loss.
Because of inherent rolling reforecasts for orders, turnover, ismonitored by the Group Finance limitations, internal controls over financial operating profit and cash.
Both are Director and the Group Audit & reporting may not prevent or detect all reviewed by the Board monthly: RiskManager: misstatements.
There has been no material change to the Groups internal the Board approves all acquisition all requests to quote for substantial control framework during the period anddivestment proposals and there fixed price contracts are reviewed by covered by this Annual Report.
are established procedures for the the Chief Executive and or the Group planning, approval and monitoring Finance Director to assess both The key components designed to provide ofcapital expenditure: technical and financial risk and to fix effective internal control within the Group an appropriate balance between risk are as follows: for all major investments the and reward.
However, no procedure performance of at least the first there is a formal schedule of matters can guarantee the avoidance of losses 12months against the original reserved to the Board for decision: on fixed price contracts of a technical proposal is reviewed by the Board: other than these matters, the Board nature: and delegates to the Chief Executive and each Group site, except for with respect to the UK pension scheme, reviews the delegation of authorities representative sales offices, is required the Group nominates half of the Trustee throughout the management structure: to submit a self assessment internal Directors of the corporate Trustee to control questionnaire annually: the Groups management structure is the pension scheme, involves its own headed up by the Management Board.
internal audit is carried out through a independent actuary with whom Its membership comprises the Executive system of regular reviews of the actuarial assumptions are reviewed, Directors, senior managers with Group financial and nonfinancial internal agrees the investment policy with the wide functional responsibilities and controls at each site.
These reviews Trustee, works with the Trustee on its the heads of the principal businesses are coordinated by the Group Audit investment subcommittee to deal of the Groups activities.
Daytoday &Risk Manager: with daytoday investment matters responsibility for the management and to act as a coordinator between financial internal audit visits are ofthe Group is delegated to the the Investment Advisors, Investment conducted by the Group Audit & Management Board.
The responsibility Managers and the Trustee, ensures Risk Manager or accountants from is based on the identification of there is an independent actuarial other parts of the Group and in separate businesses for each of the valuation every three years and agrees Japan, due to language difficulties, Groups activities for which there are funding levels to provide adequate by local external auditors: clearly defined lines of management funding to meet the benefit payments responsibilities at all levels up to and nonfinancial internal audit visits of the members as they fall due.
including the Group Board and the are conducted by the Groups Groups accounting and reporting functional heads or their delegates: functions reflect this organisation: Susan Johnson-Brett work performed is based on a Company Secretary financial executives within Group standardised Group format but 11 June 2013 businesses report to their own involves random testing, together operational head but there is also a with a review of the internal well established and acknowledged controlquestionnaire: and functional reporting relationship as required, action plans are drawn through to the Group Finance Director: up by the businesses in conjunction the Board reviews strategic issues and with the Group Finance Director or, options formally once a year during for nonfinancial audits, with the the annual strategic planning process relevant functional head to remedy and during the year as appropriate.
any significant control weaknesses Inaddition the Executive Directors that are identified from completion maintain a three year planning model of of the internal control questionnaire the Group and its individual businesses: or as a result of the internal audit.
The results of audit reviews are annual budgets are prepared for each reported to local management, the of the Groups businesses which include Group Finance Director and the monthly figures for turnover, profit, Audit Committee or Board and capital expenditure, cash flow and checks on the progress of the borrowings.
The budgets are reviewed action items arising are made: through the Group management
