Governance Framework of Corporate Governance Biographical details of all directors are the non-executive directors without the The Board tobe found on pages 24 and 25.
The executive directors being present on a The Pace plc Board is accountable to the Chairman, Allan Leighton, is mainly regular basis.
It is the policy of the Board Companys shareholders for standards of responsible for the running of the Board, to undertake a formal review and governance across the Groups businesses.
ensuring, together with the Company evaluation of its performance including Certain strategic decision-making powers Secretary, that it receives timely and clear the performance of its committees, the and authorities of the Company are information appropriate to enable it to Chairman and individual directors on an reserved as matters for the Board.
This is generally concluded day-to-day operational decisions are of the Chief Executive Officer, Mike Pulli, by written feedback in standardised form managed bythe Chief Executive Officer are to focus on running the Groups from each director to the Chairman or the the principal matters reserved forthe business and implementing Group Senior Independent Director in the case Board are set out below: strategy.
The Chief Executive Officer of appraisal of the Chairman.
The Board setting the overall strategic direction isassisted in managing the business will consider appointing an independent and oversight of the management onaday-to-day basis by the Executive facilitator for the evaluation process at ofthe Company: Committee as further described below.
least once every three years and chose not to do so in 2013. recommending or declaring dividends: All the non-executive directors other than the Chairman are deemed by the Board approval of the Company Board committees to be independent and the Chairman was consolidated financial statements: The Board has established the following deemed independent on his appointment, committees, each of which has written approval of major corporate as required by the UK Corporate terms of reference specifying its authority transactions and commitments: Governance Code.
In addition, the Board and duties and copies of which are publicly has designated Pat Chapman-Pincher as succession planning and available on the Companys website.
All directors appointments to the Board and senior have access to the advice and services The Audit & Risk Committee management remuneration: of the General Counsel and Company iscomprised of independent review of the Groups overall corporate Secretary and are able to take independent  directors governance arrangements including professional advice at the Companys PatChapman-Pincher, AmandaMesler systems of internal controls and risk expense in the furtherance of their duties, and John Grant, whoisthe Chairman management: and if necessary.
Each of the directors submit ofthe Committee.
John Grant was themselves for re-election on an annual previously Group Finance Director approval of the delegation of authority basis.
New directors receive a programme ofalisted business and is considered to the Chief Executive Officer and the of tailored induction on joining the Board bythe Board to have the necessary terms of reference of all Committees and all directors are offered the opportunity recent and relevant financial experience of the Board.
to continually update their skills and forhis role as Chairman.
Where appropriate, matters are knowledge by attending external training Details of the role and of the primary delegated to a Committee which will events.
The Company has in place responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee consider them in accordance with its procedures to deal with directors conflicts areexplained on pages 29 to 31 terms of reference.
of interest and the Board is satisfied that Details of each Committees terms of these procedures operate effectively.
The Executive Committee is chaired reference are available on the Pace website by Mike Pulli as Chief Executive Officer.
The Board normally meets at least eight at www.
com The Committee generally meets once a times each year.
It reviews the strategic month and ensures that the strategy, direction of the Group and meets with The Board of directors currently plans and policies previously agreed or other senior executives and employees comprises two executive and four delegated by the Board are implemented.
within the Group as required during the non-executive directors who bring a wide year.
The Chairman holds meetings with range of skills and experience to the Board.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 26 20 03 2014 12:22:31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the two executive In addition the following senior executives attend directors together with the following senior executives meetings ofthe Executive Committee on a regular basis: whoare deemed to be Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility under the UK Listing Rules.
Jon Cobb President, Software & Services Anthony Dixon G eneral Counsel andCompanySecretary Guy Sucharczuk President, Networks Shane McCarthy President, Pace International Phil Baldock Senior Vice President, Operations Tim OLoughlin President, Pace Americas Jane Johnston Group Human Resources Director The Executive Committee comprises Directors remuneration to the Board regarding the appointment twoexecutive directors together with The Remuneration Committee reviews of new directors.
The Nomination thesenior executives shown in the the performance of the executive directors Committee meets at least once a year tableabove.
and other members of the Executive oras required.
Committee as a prelude to recommending The Remuneration Committee their annual remuneration, bonus awards Code compliance iscomprised of Allan Leighton and and long-term share incentive awards to As referred to on page 38 the Company independent designated non-executive the Board.
The final determinations are granted an appointment share award directors John Grant, Amanda Mesler made by the Board as a whole but no toAllan Leighton on his appointment as and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is director plays a part in any discussions Non-executive Chairman in 2011 and this theChairman of the Committee.
The concerning their own remuneration.
Save in respect Committee is responsible for setting the There are no agreements between the of this Appointment Share Award, the remuneration of the executive directors Company and its directors or employees directors believe that the Company has and other members of the Executive providing for compensation for loss of complied throughout the year with the Committee and wider Executive Team, office or employment whether through UK Corporate Governance Codes for including making recommendations resignation, purported redundancy or 2010 and 2012, as revised and adopted regarding the grant of share incentive otherwise that occurs as a result by the Financial Reporting Council.
The members of the Committee ofatakeover bid.
Board confirms that it has established have no personal interest, other than the necessary procedures designed to asshareholders, in the matters to be The Remuneration Report of the directors maintain a sound system of internal decided, no potential conflicts of interest toshareholders, including the remuneration policy controls and that there is an ongoing arising from cross-directorships and no of the Company, is set out on pages 33 to 46 process for identifying, evaluating and day-to-day involvement in the running of managing the significant risks faced the business.
Where directors do hold The Nomination Committee is bythe Company.
other external positions, these are not comprised of non-executive directors considered to have any impact on their PatChapman-Pincher, John Grant duties for the Group.
andAmanda Mesler and is chaired by Allan Leighton.
Its principal purpose is toconsider and make recommendations Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 27 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
indd 27 20 03 2014 12:22:31 Governance Framework of Corporate Governance Continued Board and committee meetings attendance Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 10 5 2 1 Allan Leighton 10 1 2 1 Mike Pulli 10 Roddy Murray 10 John Grant 10 5 2 1 Mike Inglis 3 2 1 Pat Chapman-Pincher 10 5 2 1 Amanda Mesler 10 5 2 1 Retired 24 April 2013.
All shareholders are welcome to Relations with shareholders participate at the Companys Annual The Company has a well-developed General Meeting when all the directors investor relations programme led will normally be available to answer bytheChief Executive Officer and questions.
The results of the Annual ChiefFinancial Officer and managed General Meeting resolutions, including bytheSenior Vice President of Investor details of votes cast withheld, are Relations and Strategy.
Through this published on the Companys website.
programme the Company maintains regular contact with major shareholders Annual General Meeting tocommunicate clearly the Groups The Annual General Meeting of the objectives and monitors movements Company will be held on 24 April 2014 insignificant shareholdings.
at the offices of the Company at Salts Mill, Investor roadshows are now held each Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire year in the USA as well as in the UK and BD18 3LF.
Full details of the business to formal investor presentations are made be transacted at the meeting will be set out twice a year to groups of investment in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The opportunity for shareholders to meet the Chairman or Senior Independent Director, separately from the executive directors, is available on request.
All financial and trading announcements are published immediately on the Companys website, including copies ofthe presentations made to analysts and investors.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
