Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Audit & Risk Committee Report John Grant Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Dear Shareholder inthe Code regarding financial and offinancial reporting and internal control business reporting, the Board requested processes operating within the Group.
I am pleased to introduce this report of that the Committee advise on whether it Paces Audit & Risk Committee for the Set out in the following pages is the considers the Annual Report and Accounts, year ended 31 December 2013.
This reflects Committees report on its activities during taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced the new provisions of the UK Corporate the year, including a description ofhow andunderstandable and to provide the Governance Code the Code now in the Committee dealt with those areas of information necessary for shareholders effect regarding narrative reporting.
financial reporting that require particularly toassess the Companys performance, careful review and judgement.
None of The Committees duties are described business model and strategy.
these areas has proved critical in later in this report and reflect the Codes Risk management at Pace is a Board preparing the Groups financial recommendations.
More broadly, the responsibility, but the Audit & Risk statements this year.
Committee sees its role as being to ensure Committee is tasked by the Board with the integrity of the Groups financial reporting I hope you will find this report helpful in ensuring the risk management process and the robustness of its internal controls understanding the work of the Committee.
Our systems of internal and risk management processes.
control are designed to focus resource Yours sincerely In relation to the integrity of financial on the principal risks to the business which reporting, we adopt prudent accounting are summarised within the Strategic policies and practices, with areas of Report.
We have a well-developed budget John Grant judgement being subject to specific process, with regular forecast updates Chairman of the Audit review by the Committee.
We work and Board reviews of performance.
& Risk Committee closely with the Companys external During the year the Committee has been auditors to agree areas of risk of potential assisted by the Chief Financial Officer, misstatement and to make sure these are the Vice President of Group Finance addressed as part of the audit process.
andin particular the internal auditors, While the ultimate responsibility for BDO LLP.
Ihave also met separately reviewing and approving the Annual withthe Companys auditors during Report and Accounts remains with the which meetings I have discussed their Board, in view of the new provisions viewson the strength and depth Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Pace plc 29 1 PIC ar13 Middle [MR].
