GOVERNANCE The directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The directors believe it is essential for the company to be led governance, whilst taking into account the size and nature of the and controlled by an effective board which monitors progress company.
The company has fully complied with the provisions set through monthly reports and management accounts.
The board out in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The most the Code for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013, a copy of significant of these are the approval of: which can be found at www.
corporate strategy of the group and the annual operating This statement describes how the principles of corporate and capital expenditure budgets: governance in the Code are applied by the company.
the appointment of the Chief Executive, other directors and the Company Secretary: major capital investments: The board annual and half yearly financial statements: The board comprises nine directors: David Newlands, the interim management statements: and non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, Dominic acquisitions and disposals.
Taylor, George Earle and Tim Watkin-Rees, and five non-executive directors, Eric Anstee, David Morrison, Andrew Robb, Stephen The board met six times during the year and all meetings were Rowley and Nick Wiles.
attended by all board members except for Andrew Robb who was unable to attend one meeting.
Where a director is unable The board considers that David Newlands, Eric Anstee, Andrew to attend, he provides input through discussion with the Robb, Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles are independent for the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Given the size of the company and its ownership structure, the board has concluded that the proportion A formal performance evaluation of the board, its committees of independent non-executive directors is appropriate.
and individual directors took place during the period.
The performance of individual executive directors is appraised The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The board performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the non-executive is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, directors, led by Andrew Robb, Senior Independent Director, independence and knowledge, which enables it to discharge its taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The balance of independence creates an environment that encourages the effective challenge and The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by development of proposals on strategy.
All the non-executive the Chairman, taking into account the views of other directors.
directors bring considerable knowledge and experience to board Non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the deliberations.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any Chairman, taking into account the views of other directors.
of the companys share schemes or bonus schemes and their The performance evaluation confirmed that the members of service is non-pensionable.
the board were satisfied with the boards overall performance and there were no material changes recommended.
In addition Biographical details of each of the current serving directors to the evaluation of board members, the various committees are set out on page 20.
Procedures exist to allow the directors carried out self-assessments to determine whether their terms to seek independent professional advice in respect of their of reference had been satisfactorily fulfilled and how their duties at the companys expense where the circumstances are processes could be improved.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
An external performance evaluation of the board will take place The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive next year in line with the requirements of the Code.
directors and the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered office Every member of the board will offer himself for re-election during normal business hours and will be available at the annual at the 2013 annual general meeting, including Andrew Robb, general meeting.
A new Senior Independent Director will be appointed following an evaluation of internal and The Chairman, David Newlands, chairs board meetings and external candidates.
Andrew Robb has agreed to continue as regularly consults with the executive directors regarding Senior Independent Director until that appointment.
His other significant commitments are recommendations in respect of the re-election of each director disclosed in his biography on page 20.
The board considers can be found in the notice of meeting on pages 60 to 64. that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company and its subsidiaries the The Chief Executive proactively manages succession planning group effectively.
for the executives and senior management team and keeps the board updated on developments as necessary.
PayPoint plc annual report 2013 17 GOVERNANCE continued The audit committee meets the external auditor without the Committees of the board executive directors being present and procedures are in place The following formally constituted committees deal with specific which allow access at any time of both external and internal aspects of the groups affairs in accordance with the duties and auditor to the audit committee.
The Chairman of the committee responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
The reports the outcome of each meeting to the board, which is terms of reference for each of the committees are available on provided with the minutes of all committee meetings.
the companys website at www.
The appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor is Audit committee kept under annual review.
Rather than adopt a policy on The audit committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew Robb, tendering frequency, an annual review of the effectiveness Stephen Rowley and Nick Wiles.
The board considers Eric of the external audit is undertaken by the committee.
The Anstee, who is Chairman of the audit committee, to have recent committees assessment of the external auditors performance and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Code.
and independence, if satisfactory, underpins its recommendation The committee met six times during the period.
All members to the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment were in attendance with the exception of Andrew Robb, who of Deloitte LLP as auditor.
A resolution for re-appointment of was unable to attend one of the meetings.
the auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which can be found on pages 60 to 64.
The audit committee is primarily responsible for monitoring that the financial performance of the group is properly measured Remuneration committee and reported and appropriate financial control systems and The role, composition and activities of the remuneration procedures are in place.
During the period, the committee: committee and details of how the company applies the principles reviewed reports from the auditor relating to the groups of the Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out in accounting and internal controls: advised the board on the the remuneration committee report on pages 23 to 35. appointment, performance, independence and objectivity of the auditor and the internal auditor: reviewed the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control, including fraud Nomination committee prevention: reviewed the appropriateness of the internal audit The nomination committee comprises Eric Anstee, Andrew programme and the reports of the internal auditor and other Robb, Stephen Rowley, David Morrison, Nick Wiles and David independent audits by clients, LINK and BSI.
Newlands, who is its Chairman.
It met once during the period and all members were in attendance.
One of the committees roles during the period has been to consider correspondence with the Financial Reporting The committee is responsible for considering and making Councils Conduct Committee FRCCC, which requested some recommendations on the appointment of additional directors, information and clarification relating to certain items in the the retirement of existing directors and for reviewing the size, groups 2012 financial statements.
Following that, the directors structure and composition of the board and membership of board concluded that certain items in the groups 2012 consolidated committees, which are considered against objective criteria.
statement of financial position should be re-stated.
Details of these items are set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
The committee considers the need for progressive refreshment The discussions with the FRCCC in respect of the groups 2012 and keeps the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and financial statements have now been concluded.
The committee experience of the board under review.
During considerations reviewed and approved all of the groups correspondence with on the appointment and retention of non-executive directors, the FRCCC.
the committee has regard to the need for particularly rigorous review and the need to progressively refresh the board where The committee considered the level of non-audit fees for terms of appointment are beyond six years.
services provided by the auditor in order to satisfy itself that auditor independence is safeguarded.
The group has a policy The Senior Independent Director would chair discussions relating which prohibits the auditor providing certain services which to succession planning for the Chairman, in which the Chairman might impair the auditors independence.
The committee would not take part.
monitors compliance with the policy safeguarding the independence of the external auditor.
The policy also prescribes Conflicts of interest that any non-audit services to be performed by the auditor in Under the articles of association, the board has authority to any one year excluding tax are to be provisionally capped at approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that are an aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit declared by individual directors: conditions may be attached to fee.
Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services such approvals and directors will generally not be entitled to exceeding this will be subject to the prior approval of the audit participate in discussions or vote on matters in which they have committee.
In determining the most appropriate provider of or may have a conflict of interest.
non-audit services, the committee will consider the knowledge and expertise of the potential providers and the proposed costs.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least Non-audit services will only be undertaken by the auditor where annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Authorisation they are deemed to be the preferred provider and the provision is sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any of services poses no threat to its independence.
Details of the new conflicts arise.
remuneration paid to the auditor for the statutory audit and non-audit services, which normally are limited to assurance and tax advice, are set out in note 5.
18 PayPoint plc annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE continued Risk management and internal control Shareholder relations The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining The directors consider that the annual report and accounts the groups system of internal control, and for regularly play an important role in providing shareholders with an reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed evaluation of the companys position and prospects.
The board to meet the particular needs of the group and its risks, aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all safeguarding shareholders investments and the companys shareholders.
The board acknowledges the importance of an assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than open dialogue with its institutional shareholders and welcomes eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and correspondence from private investors.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process of We believe that, in addition to the annual report and the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced companys website, the annual general meeting is an ideal by the group.
forum at which to communicate with investors, and the board encourages their participation.
The Senior Independent Director All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal is available to address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code have been in place throughout the period under review and The company held briefings with institutional fund managers, up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial analysts and other investors following the announcement of statements.
The directors have conducted a formal review of the half yearly results and feedback from these has been reported to effectiveness of the groups system of internal control during the board.
Meetings have been held at other times during the the period.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified period when appropriate.
The operational management of the group is delegated to senior managers who are appointed by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the senior management group include the regular review of the main business risks to the group.
The group has prepared a detailed risk register which includes analysis of all the main operational risks covering all parts of the groups business activities, including financial risks.
The group evaluates and prioritises the identified key operational risks.
In order to ensure that this process is managed effectively, responsibility for each key risk area is assigned to a member of senior management, who must confirm in writing that the potential threats in each area have been properly identified and recorded and the appropriate action taken to mitigate risks so far as possible.
This process has been fully embedded into the operations of the business.
The audit committee receives regular updates on the ongoing risk management, control systems and processes which are discussed at their meetings.
The audit committee is responsible for approving a rigorous internal audit programme covering all the groups key business areas.
The current programme was approved in March 2011 and each year the programme is reviewed to ensure that account is taken, where necessary, of any change.
KPMG LLP provides internal audit services to the company as directed by the audit committee, in accordance with the approved internal audit plan.
They execute a programme of testing designed to assess and report on the adequacy, reliability and effectiveness of the design and operation of the relevant accounting, financial and business control systems implemented by management and report the results to the audit committee.
