OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 63 Directors training and induction In 2013, we continued with our shareholder outreach programme, seeing approximately 780 institutional and Directors receive a significant bespoke induction private investors at more than 450 different institutions programme and a range of information about Pearson in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Continental Europe, when they join the board.
This includes background India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa, South information on Pearson and details of board procedures, Korea, the UK and the US.
directors responsibilities and various governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares There are five trading updates each year and the chief and their legal obligations as directors.
The induction also executive and chief financial officer present our includes a series of meetings with members of the board, preliminary and interim results updates.
They also attend presentations regarding the business from senior regular meetings throughout the year with investors in executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor the UK and around the world, tailored to investor relations programme.
The induction programme for requirements, to discuss the performance of the Linda Lorimer and Harish Manwani is ongoing and is company, the companys strategy, our restructuring being tailored to best introduce them to Pearson in a programme, structural changes in our markets and risks period of organisational change.
and opportunities for the future.
The directors training is supplemented with The chairman meets regularly with significant presentations about the companys operations, by shareholders to understand any issues and concerns they holding board meetings at the locations of operating may have.
This is in accordance with both the Code and companies and by encouraging the directors to visit the UK Stewardship Code.
The non-executive directors operating companies and local management as and when meet informally with shareholders both before and after their schedule allows.
The company secretary and general the AGM and respond to shareholder queries and counsel, in conjunction with the Groups advisers, requests as necessary.
The chairman ensures that the monitor legal and governance developments and update board is kept informed of principal investors and the board on such matters as agreed with the chairman.
advisers views on strategy, and corporate governance.
Directors can also make use of external courses.
We also have an established programme of educational Directors indemnities seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing on individual parts of Pearson.
These seminars are In accordance with section 232 of the Act, the company available to all shareholders via webcast on grants an indemnity to all of its directors.
com relates to costs incurred by them in defending any civil or criminal proceedings and in connection with an Private investors represent over 80% of the shareholders application for relief under sections 661 3 and 4 or on our register and we make a concerted effort to sections 1157 1 - 3 of the Act, so long as monies are engage with them regularly.
Shareholders who cannot repaid not later than when the outcome becomes final if: attend the AGM are invited to email questions to the i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgment is chairman in advance at glenmoreno-agm@pearson.
com given against them: or iii the court refuses to grant the We encourage our private shareholders to become relief sought.
more informed investors and have provided a wealth The company has purchased and maintains directors of information on our website about managing Pearson and officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities shareholdings, see and costs for claims in connection with any act or www.
com investors  omission by such directors and officers in the execution for further information, or turn to page 210 of this report.
We also encourage all shareholders, who have not already done so, to register their email addresses through Shareholder engagement our website and with our registrar.
This enables them to Pearson has an extensive programme of communication receive email alerts when trading updates and other with all of its shareholders large and small, institutional important announcements are added to our website.
