OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 61 Succession planning Board evaluation The board considers oversight of succession planning The boards review of its effectiveness in 2012 took not only at board and executive management level but place during early 2013.
A primary focus for the board for all key positions throughout the business as one in 2012 was chief executive succession.
On review, of its prime responsibilities.
the board concluded that the process was structured, detailed and effective.
2013 has seen a large scale reorganisation of both the company and the structure of its senior management For 2013, the board identified two key priorities: team.
Throughout the year, the board received regular To restructure and strengthen the board through updates from the chief executive and the a higher proportion of independent directors with transformation team on the organisational redesign experience and skills relevant to Pearsons strategy, project.
This included oversight of the key particularly in education and emerging markets.
The appointments made to the Pearson Executive and that appointments of Linda Lorimer and Harish Manwani teams direct reports, the senior leadership group.
were in line with this objective: To keep the board closely informed and involved in CASE STUDY Pearsons strategic transformation during the year, Board and Pearson Executive including regular detailed briefings on strategy, planned organisational changes and key leadership As part of the boards regular programme appointments.
The board reviewed plans and actions in ofupdates on the education strategy and considerable detail on six different occasions in 2013, organisational design initiatives, a section of the including at the strategy workshop held in October October 2013 board meeting was dedicated to with the Pearson Executive.
aworkshop involving members of the Pearson Executive.
Each member of the Pearson Executive The board has also given consideration to the discussed with the board their new roles, strategic information it receives and how this is reported.
As a priorities, and the challenges and opportunities result, an improved board information system is being facing their particular business area as they designed which will enable the board to more movedtowards the new operating structure on1 January 2014. effectively track performance and developments in the business model.
As part of this review, in January 2014, The session had benets for all parties involved we instituted a revised monthly chief executives letter the board was able to learn more about the to the board.
recently appointed executive team, and to explorewith them key issues relating to the The board also wished to give consideration as to ways geographies, lines of business, products and in which to maximise the effectiveness of its overseas technologies, whilstdemonstrating to the meetings.
In June 2013, the board held a meeting in executive its involvement and support during South Africa, more information on which is set out in aperiod of great change.
Following the trip, a short questionnaire was distributed to board members.
Particular learning points arising from the boards input During the year the board also approved formal related to: contingency plans for temporary absence of the chief Continuing to ensure site visits are representative executive for health or other reasons.
of Pearsons operations in the region: The high value placed on meeting the end users of Pearsons products students and teachers: Logistical arrangements both before and during the trip: and Ensuring that board presentations are pitched to impart a sufficient level of knowledge for directors to perform their roles.
62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued CASE STUDY It is intended that these learning points will be used to shape future overseas agendas, including potential visits South Africa by the board to the US and an emerging market territory during 2014.
In June 2013, the board visited South Africa for a three-day meeting to understand the economic During the course of the year the executive directors and political environment, the education landscape were also evaluated on their performance against and Pearsons South African business, one of the personal objectives.
Up to 20% of the executives total Groups most consistently successful businesses annual incentive opportunity for 2013 was based on over the last decade.
functional, operational, strategic and non-financial The board met with a number of Pearsons senior objectives relevant to their specific area of leaders in the region and also took the opportunity responsibility.
The chairman leads the assessment of to meet with the leader of Pearsons Nigeria the chief executive, and the non-executive directors, business as it learned more about scope for growth led by the senior independent director, conduct a in that country and more widely across Africa.
review of the chairmans performance.
The board spent time visiting local schools as well as reviewing higher education initiatives on the In accordance with the Code, the board anticipates main campus of CTI, Pearsons higher education undertaking an external evaluation during 2014.
The business in South Africa.
board is currently discussing focus and timing for the The board also met with Cyril Ramaphosa, the process to gain the maximum benefit from the review.
recently elected deputy president of the ANC, In addition to the review of the board and individual atasession involving a range of business leaders, directors, the audit and remuneration committees each journalists, authors and key opinion leaders in undergo an annual evaluation process to review their education, exploring how Pearson could do more to tackle problems in education and training in performance and effectiveness.
areas such as roles and responsibilities, quality and timeliness of meeting materials, opportunity for Finally, outside of the core educational focus of the discussion and debate, dialogue with management trip, the board received an update on Penguin in South Africa to learn more about how the merger and access to independent advice.
with Random House is enhancing publishing opportunities.
