OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 55 Board of directors Pearsons board brings a wide range of experience, skills and backgrounds.
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Glen Moreno Chairman John Fallon Chief executive Robin Freestone Chief financial officer aged 70, appointed 1 October 2005 aged 51, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 55, appointed 12 June 2006 Robins experience in management and Chairman of the nomination Member of the nomination committee accounting includes a previous role as committee and member of the John became Pearsons chief executive groupnancial controller of Amersham plc remuneration committee on1January 2013.
Since 2008 he had been now part of General Electric and senior responsible for the companys education Glen has more than four decades of financial positions with ICI plc, Zeneca and businesses outside North America, and experience in business and finance, Henkel UK.
He joined Pearson in 2004 as amember of the Pearson management andiscurrently deputy chairman of deputy chief financial officer and became committee.
He joined Pearson in 1997 TheFinancial Reporting Council Limited chief financial officer in June 2006. asdirector of communications and was inthe UK and non-executive director Robin qualied as a chartered accountant appointed president of Pearson Inc. arole ofFidelity International Limited.
Previously, with Touche Ross now Deloitte, and is he combined with his communications Glen was deputy chairman andsenior currentlya non-executive director and responsibilities, in 2000.
In 2003, he was independent director at Lloyds Banking founder shareholder of eChem Limited.
appointed CEO of Pearsons educational Group plc, senior independent director Robin sits on the Advisory Group of the publishing businesses for Europe, ofMan Group plc and acting chairman ICAEWs Financial Reporting Faculty and MiddleEast & Africa EMA and gradually ofUK Financial Investments Limited, ischairman of The Hundred Group of took onabroader international education thecompany set up by HMTreasury to Finance Directors.
Prior to joining Pearson, John was manage the governments shareholdings CBIsEconomic Growth Board.
director of corporate affairs at Powergen inUKbanks.
plc, where he was also a member of thecompanys executive committee.
Earlierin his career, John held senior publicpolicy and communications roles inUK local government.
