58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance Corporate governance Vivienne, as incumbent senior independent director, has responsibility for appraising the chairmans Introduction performance during 2013 and beyond.
The board believes that during 2013 the company was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The senior independent director would be expected Code the Code.
A detailed account of the provisions to chair the nomination committee in the event that of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at it was considering succession to the role of chairman www.
uk and we encourage readers to view of the board.
our compliance schedule on the company website at Independence of directors www.
com investors shareholderAll of the non-executive directors were considered by information governance the board to be independent for the purposes of the Composition of the board Code during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The board currently consists of the chairman, The board reviews the independence of each of Glen Moreno, two executive directors including the the non-executive directors annually.
This includes chief executive, John Fallon, and six independent reviewing their external appointments and any non-executive directors.
potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their Chairman and chief executive individual circumstances in order to ensure that there There is a defined split of responsibilities between the are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is their character or judgement.
In addition to this review, primarily responsible for the leadership of the board each of the non-executive directors is asked annually to and ensuring its effectiveness: the chief executive is complete an independence questionnaire to satisfy responsible for the operational management of the requirements arising from Pearsons US listing.
business and for the development and implementation David Arculus and Ken Hydon have each now served of the companys strategy as agreed by the board and on the board for eight years and it is their intention to the Pearson Executive.
The roles and responsibilities of retire from the board at the 2015 AGM.
As chairmen the chairman and chief executive are clearly defined, of the remuneration and audit committees respectively, set out in writing and reviewed and agreed by the the nomination committee is actively considering board annually.
options for their successors both in their capacity as Chairman non-executive directors and for their chairmanships.
There were no changes to the chairmans significant commitments during the course of 2013.
Length of tenure of non-executive directors Senior independent director Under 3 years 3 Vivienne Cox is the companys senior independent 3 to 6 years 1 director, having been appointed to the role on 7 years or more 2 1 January 2013.
Viviennes role includes meeting regularly with the chairman and chief executive to discuss specific issues, as well as being available to shareholders generally if they should have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
Source: Pearson Following Patrick Cescaus departure in December 2012, he was invited back in February 2013 in his former role as senior independent director to conduct a session with the other non-executive directors and the chief executive to appraise the performance of the chairman, including in relation to the effectiveness of the nomination committee as part of the annual board evaluation process.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 59 Conflicts of interest GOVERNANCE AND SHAREHOLDER MATTERS: APRIL 2013, LONDON Under the Companies Act 2006 the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with Focus on forthcoming AGM and review of the company.
The companys Articles of Association shareholder issues Articles allow the directors to authorise conflicts of Review of investor relations strategy and share price interest.
The company has established a procedure to performance identify actual and potential conflicts of interest, Review of corporate social responsibility including all directorships or other appointments to, or Status update on Penguin Random House transaction relationships with, companies which are not part of the and ebook settlement proposal Pearson group and which could give rise to actual or Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions potential conflicts of interest.
Once notified to the Governance update chairman or company secretary, such potential conflicts are considered for authorisation by the board STRATEGY: JUNE 2013, JOHANNESBURG at its next scheduled meeting.
The relevant director cannot vote on an authorisation resolution, or be Review of Southern African education business counted in the quorum, in relation to the resolution including site visits, panel sessions and debates see relating to his her conflict or potential conflict.
case study on page 62 for further information The board reviews any authorisations granted on an annual basis.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: JULY 2013, LONDON Board meetings Interim results and dividend approval The board held six scheduled meetings in 2013, with Penguin Random House post-completion update some meetings taking place over two or more days.
Initial review of proposed Multi acquisition In recent years, we have developed our board meeting Consideration of Mergermarket sale agenda to ensure that board discussion and debate is centred on the key strategic issues facing the company.
STRATEGY: OCTOBER 2013, LONDON Over the course of 2013, the board maintained a Launch of efficacy strategy watching brief over the transformation project and Discussion of New York Attorney Generals review received regular formal updates from the chief of the Pearson Foundation executive and the transformation team, headed by Review of standing committee terms of reference the director of communications.
Other major items Workshop with Pearson Executive see case study covered by the board in the year included: on page 61 for further information BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: FEBRUARY 2013, LONDON STRATEGIC PLAN: DECEMBER 2013, NEW YORK 2012 report and accounts and dividend Preliminary view of 2014 recommendation Overview of changes to the 2013 year end reporting 2013 operating plan requirements Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions Risk assessment and review of mitigating actions Annual review of authorised conflicts Approval of schedule of authority limits Review of division of responsibilities between chairman and chief executive In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the board Plans for board effectiveness review held one further full meeting in November 2013 to Discussion of accounting exemption for UK subsidiaries approve the Mergermarket sale and Grupo Multi acquisition and undertook discussions throughout the year, both in formal meetings and as otherwise required, to consider the progress and terms of these and other corporate transactions.
