66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued AUDIT COMMITTEE Chairman Ken Hydon Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon and Linda Lorimer As a committee we welcome the new governance As I have said in previous years, a key part of the requirements for the financial statements, enshrined role of the committee is in providing oversight and in the changes to the Code introduced in 2013, and reassurance to the board with regard to the integrity in particular that the report and accounts need to be of the companys financial reporting, internal control fair, balanced and understandable.
The production, policies, and procedures for the identication, co-ordination and review of the annual report and assessment and reporting of risk.
The latter two accounts is a substantial exercise which needs to be have been a particular focus for the Pearson audit undertaken within a relatively short timeframe, committee throughout 2013 as the company running alongside the formal audit process embarked on such a wide ranging and significant undertaken by our external auditors.
In order to transformational and organisational change through arrive at a position where the audit committee and the launch of its global education strategy.
Again, the board are satisfied with the overall fairness, committee meetings are always attended by the chief balance and clarity of the document we discussed the financial officer and SVP internal audit and compliance new requirements and agreed with management a and our external auditors, and others often attend by robust process of review and approval.
invitation, including the chief executive and chairman.
The committee is aware of the recommendations of During the year the audit committee continued the Competition Commission and the EU on audit to interact with local and business management, tender and rotation, and currently expects that the and in particular spent time with local management tender process will begin no later than 2017 for the during their visit to South Africa, discussing the 2018 financial year end.
The committee reviews the implementation of the companys anti-bribery and auditors independence on an annual basis and also corruption policy, data protection, disaster recovery monitors on a quarterly basis the nature and level of planning, risk registers and the Pearson code of non-audit fees payable to them.
As described later in conduct.
The committee also added an additional this report, during 2013 Pearson spent a considerable fifth meeting to its annual calendar, both to allow an amount of non-audit fees with PwC.
In the main, this appropriate amount of time be set aside for expenditure related to specic assurance and tax consideration of all relevant matters, as well as to advisory services associated with the planned allow us to focus on a number of risk deep-dives, in creation of the venture between Penguin and particular on data security and privacy, treasury risk Random House, and both management and the audit and anti-bribery and corruption.
committee believe that using PwC for these services In August 2013, Susan Fuhrman stood down from the was the most practical and economical solution for board and audit committee, and at the end of 2013, the company.
We anticipate that this level of Josh Lewis stood down from the committee and has non-audit fee is unusual, and that the balance of audit been replaced by Linda Lorimer.
We thank Susan and to non-audit fee paid to PwC will return to more Josh for their wise counsel over the last few years and normal levels in 2014. welcome Linda.
Ken Hydon OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 67 Members External audit All of the audit committee members are independent Based on managements recommendations, the non-executive directors and have financial and or committee reviews the proposal on the appointment related business experience due to the senior positions of the external auditors.
The committee reviewed the they hold or have held in other listed or publicly traded effectiveness and independence of the external companies and or similar public organisations.
auditors during 2013 and remains satisfied that the Ken Hydon, chairman of the committee, is the auditors provide effective independent challenge companys designated financial expert.
He is a Fellow to management.
of the Chartered Institute of Management The review was conducted by distributing a Accountants, the Association of Chartered Certified questionnaire to key audit stakeholders including Accountants and the Association of Corporate members of the audit committee, the chief executive, Treasurers.
He also serves as audit committee chief financial officer, SVP company secretarial, SVP chairman for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Merlin internal audit and compliance, operating company Entertainments plc, and until 2012 for Tesco plc and CFOs and heads of corporate functions.
In relation to Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
specific comments received, the lead audit partner The qualifications and relevant experience of the other explained to the committee how PwC were committee members are detailed on page 56. monitoring and reviewing each highlighted area and confirmed that they would consider how to adapt their Role and responsibilities approach in light of feedback.
The committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are In addition, in accordance with our external auditor reviewed annually and can be found on the company policy, Group internal audit performs an annual website at www.
com investors  of audit fees, services and independence.
information governance This review takes into account internal and external information and benchmarks and forms the basis for The committee has been established by the a recommendation by the committee to the board in board primarily for the purpose of overseeing the respect of the appointment and compensation of our accounting, financial reporting, internal control and risk external auditor.
management processes of the company and the audit of the financial statements of the company.
Recognising the importance of maintaining auditor independence and objectivity, the committee paid The committee is responsible for assisting the boards particular attention to this matter during 2013.
PwC oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys were appointed to provide assurance procedures over external financial reporting and statements and the the completion balance sheet and tax advice on the companys accounting policies and practices.
This decision was The groups internal auditor has a dual reporting line made only after careful consideration of the to the chief financial officer and chair of the committee alternatives, as well as ensuring that appropriate and external auditors have direct access to the safeguards were put in place to maintain independence.
committee to raise any matter of concern and to As a result of this decision, non-audit fees paid to PwC report on the results of work directed by the exceeded Pearsons target proportion of audit fees committee.
The committee reports to the full board during the year.
at every board meeting immediately following a committee meeting.
It also reviews the independence of the external auditors, including the provision of non-audit services further details of which can be found on page 73 and note 4 to the financial statements, and ensures that there is an appropriate audit relationship and that auditor objectivity and independence is upheld.
68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued The committee will continue to review the partners term.
The committee is also monitoring performance of the external auditors on an annual developments from the Competition Commission on basis and will consider their independence and audit tendering and at EU level regarding mandatory objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines.
audit rotation for listed companies, and will factor There are no contractual obligations restricting the any legislative requirements into its future plans for committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, audit tender.
the external auditors are required to rotate the audit Significant issues partner responsible for the Group audit every five During the year, the committee discussed the planning, years.
The current lead audit partner rotated onto the conduct and conclusions of the external audit as Groups audit in 2013. it proceeded.
Pearsons last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 At the July 2013 audit committee meeting, the year end resulting in the appointment of Price committee discussed and approved the auditors Waterhouse as auditors.
Given the recent rotation of Group audit plan and reviewed the key risks of lead audit partner ahead of the 2013 reporting period misstatement of the Groups financial statements, and giving careful consideration to the timing and other which were updated at the December 2013 practicalities of undertaking a formal audit tendering committee meeting.
The table below sets out the process, the committee agreed that a tender process significant issues considered by the audit committee would commence no later than 2017 to ensure together with details of how these items have been auditors have been appointed in time for the 2018 year addressed.
end audit, following the end of the current lead SIGNIFICANT ISSUES HOW ISSUES WERE ADDRESSED The committee discussed this issue at a number of meetings, including Penguin Random House transaction: reviewing managements discussion of the significant accounting judgements A number of complex accounting and business and estimates and monitoring the views of the external auditors.
The model changes including disposal accounting, committee and management have visibility of Penguin Random Houses valuation of the new business and intangibles, accounting to ensure that all accounting policies, valuations and adjustments associate accounting including harmonisation of are considered in Pearsons accounts.
The committee monitors and, where accounting policies, changes to existing operating appropriate, challenges mitigating actions by management.
These actions model of shared services, infrastructure and include key Sarbanes-Oxley controls over acquisition and disposal accounting corporate costs such as pensions.
including review by the technical accounting team, use of external valuation experts and use of local management to ensure that policies and operating model are communicated and adjusted as required.
The committee receives a regular presentation from management on revenue Revenue recognition: recognition and routinely monitors the views of the external auditors on this This is considered significant in light of a number issue.
The committee has visibility to internal audit findings relating to revenue of products and services sold by Pearson where recognition controls and processes, the related management action plans revenue recognition practices are complex and and timely closure of open issues.
The committee monitors and, where management assumptions and estimates are appropriate, challenges mitigating actions by management.
include key Sarbanes-Oxley controls and identification of significant contracts through the large and unusual process, such that accounting treatment can be agreed by specialists.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 69 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES HOW ISSUES WERE ADDRESSED The committee met with the SVP, Tax twice during 2013, discussed the tax US tax activity: strategy and held a risk deep dive into the tax process in October.
Key tax Changes to processes, structure and strategy in accounting matters including judgements and estimates were reported to the 2012 and 2013, and IRS audit activity.
committee by management, and the committee monitored the views of the external auditors on the companys tax accounting.
The committee monitors and, where appropriate, challenges mitigating actions by management.
These actions include key Sarbanes-Oxley controls in place in the US, and improved UK central oversight to ensure critical judgements are appropriately reviewed and understood.
The committee considered the results of the Groups annual goodwill Impairment of goodwill and intangibles: impairment review and managements judgements and assumptions used in The Group carries significant goodwill and arriving at a valuation for each of the Groups CGUs.
The key assumptions are acquired intangible asset balances.
There is cash flows derived from strategic plans, long-term growth rates and weighted judgement in the identification and aggregation average cost of capital.
The committee also considered sensitivities to changes of cash generating units CGUs and in the in assumptions and related disclosures as required by IAS 36 Impairment of assumptions used in the annual goodwill Assets.
The annual impairment review in 2013 showed that there was impairment review.
sufficient headroom in each of the Groups CGUs and based on the sensitivity analysis a reasonably possible change in any of the assumptions is unlikely to cause an impairment in any of the CGUs.
Their assessment and evaluation of returns provisions The committee discussed these issues with the and controls in the shipment and returns processes, auditors at the time of their review of the half year particularly in light of the ongoing business transition interim financial statements in July 2013 and again at from print to digital: the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements Their evaluation of the recoverability of pre-publication for the year in February 2014.
All the significant issues assets and inventories.
These are considered to be were areas of focus for the auditors, as detailed in their material and judgement is required to evaluate their report on pages 116 to 122. valuation, plus estimating recoverability may be more In December 2013, the committee discussed with the complex during the transition to digital: auditors the status of their work, focusing in particular Their focus on goodwill impairment due to the on internal controls and covering the significant issues Groups significant goodwill and intangible asset outlined above.
balances, and the work they had done to test managements impairment analysis, underlying As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained assumptions, calculation of discount and growth to the committee: rates and integrity of the valuation model: The work they had conducted over revenue, which The results of their controls testing to date for included targeted procedures and testing of products Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 reporting purposes and services which were considered to have more and in support of their financial statements audit: and complex revenue recognition, such as multiple element The review of the companys going concern reports.
arrangements e. g. the provision of supplementary The auditors also reported to the committee the print or digital materials or training with textbooks misstatements that they had found in the course and certain long-term contracts in the education of their work, which were insignificant, and the businesses: committee confirmed that there were no Their evaluation of the directors assessment of the material items remaining unadjusted in these Penguin Random House transaction and assessment financial statements.
of valuations of that business and associate accounting: The work they had done to understand the Groups tax strategy and identify business and legislative risks, to challenge key underlying assumptions and assess the recoverability of deferred tax assets: 70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued Training Assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal The committee receives regular technical updates control environment: as well as specific or personal training as appropriate.
Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter During 2013, the committee discussed with PwC at an of the external auditors: audit committee meeting the new Code requirement Provision of non-audit services by PwC: for the annual report and accounts to be fair, balanced Review of the interim financial statements and and understandable, and the disclosure committee announcement: undertook a training session on the subject.
Review of key findings of over 100 Group internal audits and special projects: Committee members also meet with local Annual reapproval of the Group internal audit management on an ongoing basis in order to gain mandate: a better understanding of how Group policies are Compliance with SEC and NYSE requirements embedded in operations.
including Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Meetings Reviews of the effectiveness of the audit committee, The committee met five times during the year with the external auditors and the Group internal audit the following in attendance: the chief financial officer: function: SVP internal audit and compliance: members of the External auditor benchmarking: senior management team: and the external auditors.
Review of the committees terms of reference: Additionally, the chief executive and chairman Annual internal audit plan: periodically attended committee meetings.
The Review of company risk maps and mitigating actions for committee also met regularly in private with the top risks: external auditors and the SVP internal audit and Risk deep dives anti-bribery and corruption, data compliance.
security and privacy, and treasury risk: Implementation of new health and safety strategy, At every meeting, the committee considered reports policy and reporting of any significant incidents: on the activities of the Group internal audit function, Fraud, whistleblowing and code of conduct matters: including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, Review of Group tax strategy, tax risks and tax project assurance reviews and fraud and departmental structure: and whistleblowing reports.
The committee also monitored Annual review of treasury policy and strategy.
the companys financial reporting, internal controls At its December meeting, the committee considered and risk management procedures, reviewed the the Groups business continuity planning, the latest non-audit services provided by PwC and considered internal report on which indicated that readiness to any significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the withstand significant business interruption does not context of their impact on financial reporting.
currently meet Pearsons own stringent standards.
Specifically, the committee considered the following It was noted that workable plans generally existed but matters during the course of the year: that, in light of the scale of business transformation, these plans had not been updated or tested within The 2012 annual report and accounts: preliminary the past year.
The committee reported this risk to the announcement, financial statements and income board at its December meeting where it was noted statement: that management had in principle accepted the level The Group accounting policies: of risk on the basis that the restructured organisation Compliance with the Code: would change the focus of business continuity plans Form 20-F and related disclosures including the annual which would consequently require updating.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 attestation of financial reporting internal controls: In February 2014, the committee also considered Receipt of the external auditors report on the Form the 2013 annual report and accounts, including the 20-F and on the year end audit: preliminary announcement, financial statements, Penguin Random House transaction accounting strategic report, directors report and corporate matters: governance compliance statement.
