OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 61 Succession planning Board evaluation The board considers oversight of succession planning The boards review of its effectiveness in 2012 took not only at board and executive management level but place during early 2013.
A primary focus for the board for all key positions throughout the business as one in 2012 was chief executive succession.
On review, of its prime responsibilities.
the board concluded that the process was structured, detailed and effective.
2013 has seen a large scale reorganisation of both the company and the structure of its senior management For 2013, the board identified two key priorities: team.
Throughout the year, the board received regular To restructure and strengthen the board through updates from the chief executive and the a higher proportion of independent directors with transformation team on the organisational redesign experience and skills relevant to Pearsons strategy, project.
This included oversight of the key particularly in education and emerging markets.
The appointments made to the Pearson Executive and that appointments of Linda Lorimer and Harish Manwani teams direct reports, the senior leadership group.
were in line with this objective: To keep the board closely informed and involved in CASE STUDY Pearsons strategic transformation during the year, Board and Pearson Executive including regular detailed briefings on strategy, planned organisational changes and key leadership As part of the boards regular programme appointments.
The board reviewed plans and actions in ofupdates on the education strategy and considerable detail on six different occasions in 2013, organisational design initiatives, a section of the including at the strategy workshop held in October October 2013 board meeting was dedicated to with the Pearson Executive.
aworkshop involving members of the Pearson Executive.
Each member of the Pearson Executive The board has also given consideration to the discussed with the board their new roles, strategic information it receives and how this is reported.
As a priorities, and the challenges and opportunities result, an improved board information system is being facing their particular business area as they designed which will enable the board to more movedtowards the new operating structure on1 January 2014. effectively track performance and developments in the business model.
As part of this review, in January 2014, The session had benets for all parties involved we instituted a revised monthly chief executives letter the board was able to learn more about the to the board.
recently appointed executive team, and to explorewith them key issues relating to the The board also wished to give consideration as to ways geographies, lines of business, products and in which to maximise the effectiveness of its overseas technologies, whilstdemonstrating to the meetings.
In June 2013, the board held a meeting in executive its involvement and support during South Africa, more information on which is set out in aperiod of great change.
Following the trip, a short questionnaire was distributed to board members.
Particular learning points arising from the boards input During the year the board also approved formal related to: contingency plans for temporary absence of the chief Continuing to ensure site visits are representative executive for health or other reasons.
of Pearsons operations in the region: The high value placed on meeting the end users of Pearsons products students and teachers: Logistical arrangements both before and during the trip: and Ensuring that board presentations are pitched to impart a sufficient level of knowledge for directors to perform their roles.
