OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 65 During 2013, the committee met five times with its Lord Davies review published in 2011 called for primary focus being to consider suitable candidates companies to target 25% female representation on for non-executive positions, culminating in the boards of FTSE 100 companies by 2015.
Pearson is appointment of Linda Lorimer and Harish Manwani committed to having at least 30% female directors to the board.
An external search consultancy, Egon within Lord Davies 2015 timeframe and currently has Zehnder, was used during the recruitment process.
two female directors on its board of nine representing Egon Zehnder does not have any other connection to 22%.
With the retirement of three female directors Pearson apart from as a search consultancy.
Pearson over the last year, the committee is actively seeking to uses a number of leading firms in its board and recruit at least one additional female board member.
Immediately below board level, the Pearson Executive, During the year, the committee also discussed and not including the chief executive and chief financial approved the appointments of Josh Lewis to the officer who are main board directors, has four female remuneration committee and of Linda Lorimer to the members out of a total of 13 representing 31%.
audit committee, in place of Josh Lewis who stepped Pearson considers diversity as an important issue down at the end of 2013.
Linda Lorimer and Harish across the Group, not just at board level.
One of the Manwani also joined the nomination committee key aims of Pearsons diversity policy is to increase the following their appointments to the board during number of leaders coming from a diverse background, the year.
including advancing more women into leadership Although the chairman of the board chairs the positions.
The Responsible business section of this nomination committee, he is not permitted to chair report on pages 47 to 53 contains further information meetings when the appointment of his successor is and statistics on diversity throughout the Group.
being considered or during a discussion regarding his performance.
At such times, the senior independent REMUNERATION COMMITTEE director will chair the meetings.
Chairman David Arculus The committee has written terms of reference Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis and Glen Moreno which clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be found on the company website The remuneration committee reports to the full board at $ www.
com investors shareholderand the directors remuneration report, which has information governance been considered and adopted by the board, is set out on pages 78 to 114.
Diversity The board embraces the Codes underlying principles The committee met five times during the year, and has with regard to board balance and diversity, including a written charter and terms of reference which clearly gender diversity.
The nomination committee, led by set out its authority and duties.
These can be found the chairman, ensures that the directors of Pearson on the company website at www.
com demonstrate a broad balance of skills, experience and investors  governance nationality, to support Pearsons strategic development and reflect the global nature of the Groups business.
The committee and the board always take account of diversity in its broadest sense when considering board appointments whilst ensuring that appointments are made based on merit and relevant experience.
