60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued The following table sets out the attendance of the The board receives timely, regular and necessary companys directors at scheduled board meetings financial, management and other information to fulfil its during 2013: duties.
Comprehensive board papers are circulated to the board and committee members at least one week Board in advance of each meeting and the board receives meetings attended Notes regular reports from the chief executive.
In addition Chairman to meeting papers, a library of current and historic corporate information is made available to directors Glen Moreno 6 6 electronically to support the boards decision-making Executive directors process.
Directors can obtain independent professional John Fallon 6 6 advice, at the companys expense, in the performance Will Ethridge 5 6 absent for medical reasons of their duties as directors.
All directors have access to Rona Fairhead stood down 26 April 2013 the advice and services of the company secretary.
Robin Freestone 6 6 Non-executive directors meet with local senior John Makinson 3 3 stood down 1 July 2013 management every time board and committee Non-executive directors meetings are held at the locations of operating companies, such as during the boards 2013 trip to David Arculus 4 6 unable to travel due to injury South Africa.
This allows the non-executive directors Vivienne Cox 6 6 to share their experience and expertise with senior Susan Fuhrman 3 4 stood down 7 August 2013 managers as well as allowing them to better Ken Hydon 6 6 understand the abilities of senior management, which Josh Lewis 6 6 in turn will help them assess the companys prospects and plans for succession.
Linda Lorimer 3 3 appointed 1 July 2013 Harish Manwani 2 2 appointed 1 October 2013 Culture and values of the board During a time of widespread organisational and The role and business of the board strategic change at Pearson, the board has had The board is deeply engaged in developing and oversight of the plans to embed efficacy firmly into measuring the companys long-term strategy, the companys culture.
We believe that it adds Since 2012, the board has been kept abreast of the a valuable and diverse set of external perspectives companys intentions through a number of sessions and that robust, open debate about significant with the chief education advisor.
At the most recent business issues brings a valuable additional discipline such session, in October 2013, the board had the to major decisions.
opportunity to discuss building efficacy into all aspects A schedule of formal matters reserved for the boards of Pearsons operations, and noted their strong support for Pearsons involvement in the global public decision and approval is available on our website, at www.
com investors shareholderdialogue on efficacy and education.
information governance A standing committee of the board has been established to approve certain ordinary course of business items such as banking matters, guarantees, intra-group transactions and routine matters relating to employee share plans.
The committee has written terms of reference, reviewed and approved each year, which clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be found on the company website at www.
