64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued We post all company announcements on our website, In addition to these board committees, two further www.
com, as soon as they are released, and committees operate with board input: the standing major shareholder presentations are made accessible committee and the reputation and responsibility via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains committee which primarily focuses on reputational risk.
a dedicated investor relations section with an extensive More detail on the work of this committee can be archive of past announcements and presentations, found within the principal risks and uncertainties historical financial performance, share price data and section on pages 41 to 45. a calendar of events.
It also includes information about During 2013, the balance of work considered by the all of our businesses, links to their websites and details board and its formal committees has shifted, so that of our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
more time is spent by the committees discussing their We are committed to ensuring that all our areas of expertise, enabling the board meetings to shareholders receive their dividends and encourage the focus on strategy and performance.
Reports to the use of our dividend mandate service which enables UK board by each of the committee chairmen continue to and many overseas shareholders to receive dividends form a standing item on each board agenda, ensuring a directly into their nominated bank account.
good communication flow between the bodies.
Due to its continued popularity we again provided The following table shows attendance by directors at shareholders with smaller holdings the opportunity to committee meetings throughout 2013: use our registrars low-cost share dealing service, giving Audit Remuneration Nomination them the chance to add to or reduce their stake in committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings Pearson at significantly reduced dealing rates, or to donate shares to charity with ease.
This service proved Glen Moreno 5 5 5 5 very popular with shareholders, and consequently we John Fallon 5 5 intend to offer this service again at a future date.
David Arculus 4 5 5 5 3 5 We believe it is important that our employees have Vivienne Cox 4 5 3 5 5 5 a shared interest in the direction and achievements Susan Fuhrman 3 3 3 4 of Pearson and are pleased to say that a large number Ken Hydon 5 5 5 5 5 5 of our employees are shareholders in the company.
Josh Lewis 5 5 4 4 5 5 Our AGM which will be held on 25 April this year Linda Lorimer 2 2 is an opportunity for all shareholders to meet the Harish Manwani 1 1 board and to hear presentations about Pearsons Unable to travel due to injury.
Board committees Joined remuneration committee on 23 April 2013.
The board has established three formal committees: NOMINATION COMMITTEE the nomination committee, the remuneration committee and the audit committee.
The chairmen Chairman Glen Moreno and members of these committees are appointed Members David Arculus, Vivienne Cox, John Fallon, Ken Hydon, Josh Lewis, Linda Lorimer, Harish Manwani and Glen Moreno by the board on the recommendation where appropriate of the nomination committee and in consultation with each relevant committee chairman.
The nomination committee meets at least once a year and at other times as and when required.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees, and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors and or committee members.
