58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance Corporate governance Vivienne, as incumbent senior independent director, has responsibility for appraising the chairmans Introduction performance during 2013 and beyond.
The board believes that during 2013 the company was in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance The senior independent director would be expected Code the Code.
A detailed account of the provisions to chair the nomination committee in the event that of the Code can be found on the FRCs website at it was considering succession to the role of chairman www.
uk and we encourage readers to view of the board.
our compliance schedule on the company website at Independence of directors www.
com investors shareholderAll of the non-executive directors were considered by information governance the board to be independent for the purposes of the Composition of the board Code during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The board currently consists of the chairman, The board reviews the independence of each of Glen Moreno, two executive directors including the the non-executive directors annually.
This includes chief executive, John Fallon, and six independent reviewing their external appointments and any non-executive directors.
potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing their Chairman and chief executive individual circumstances in order to ensure that there There is a defined split of responsibilities between the are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman is their character or judgement.
In addition to this review, primarily responsible for the leadership of the board each of the non-executive directors is asked annually to and ensuring its effectiveness: the chief executive is complete an independence questionnaire to satisfy responsible for the operational management of the requirements arising from Pearsons US listing.
business and for the development and implementation David Arculus and Ken Hydon have each now served of the companys strategy as agreed by the board and on the board for eight years and it is their intention to the Pearson Executive.
The roles and responsibilities of retire from the board at the 2015 AGM.
As chairmen the chairman and chief executive are clearly defined, of the remuneration and audit committees respectively, set out in writing and reviewed and agreed by the the nomination committee is actively considering board annually.
options for their successors both in their capacity as Chairman non-executive directors and for their chairmanships.
There were no changes to the chairmans significant commitments during the course of 2013.
Length of tenure of non-executive directors Senior independent director Under 3 years 3 Vivienne Cox is the companys senior independent 3 to 6 years 1 director, having been appointed to the role on 7 years or more 2 1 January 2013.
Viviennes role includes meeting regularly with the chairman and chief executive to discuss specific issues, as well as being available to shareholders generally if they should have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels.
Source: Pearson Following Patrick Cescaus departure in December 2012, he was invited back in February 2013 in his former role as senior independent director to conduct a session with the other non-executive directors and the chief executive to appraise the performance of the chairman, including in relation to the effectiveness of the nomination committee as part of the annual board evaluation process.
