Governance Board of Directors Chairman Kenneth George Harvey CBE, BSc Chairman Committees: Nomination Chairman Appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
He was chairman of National Grid Holdings in 1995 and was previously deputy chairman of London Electricity and earlier its engineering director.
He has also been chairman of a number of limited and private equity funded companies.
Currently he is the senior independent non-executive director of National Grid Plc.
Executive Directors Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond David Jeremy Dupont Christopher Loughlin OBE, MA, MBA, LTCL, HonFSE MA, MBA BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA Chief Executive, Viridor Group Director of Finance Chief Executive, South West Water Committees: Sustainability, Executive Committees: Executive Committees: Sustainability, Executive Appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining Appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was Appointed on 1 August 2006.
Chris was the Company Colin was a divisional chief formerly regulatory and finance director previously chief operating officer with Lloyds executive of Coats Viyella, having previously of South West Water Limited, having joined Register and earlier in his career was an been corporate development director Pennon Group Plc then South West Water executive director of British Nuclear Fuels Plc of Renold Plc, a strategy consultant with Plc in 1992 as strategic planning manager.
and executive chairman of Magnox Electric the Boston Consulting Group and an official Previously he held business planning Plc.
He was also a senior diplomat in the of the Bank of England.
He is chairman of and development roles with Gateway British Embassy, Tokyo.
Chris started his the Governments Living with Environmental Corporation.
He is a member of the CBI career as a chartered engineer working Change Business Advisory Board and of Environmental Affairs Committee in both the consulting and contracting the Environmental Sustainability Knowledge and the CBI South West Regional Council.
sectors and subsequently held a number Transfer Network.
He is a senior visiting of senior positions with British Nuclear research fellow in Earth Sciences Fuels.
Between April 2008 and March 2012 at Oxford University and a Past he was chairman of Water UK.
Currently Master of the Worshipful Company Chris is vice-chairman of the Cornwall of Water Conservators.
Local Enterprise Partnership, President of the Institute of Water and a trustee Colin is due to retire from the Board and member of the audit committee when a successor has been appointed of the global charity, WaterAid.
which is expected to be around the end of September 2013.
At that time Colin will become the chairman of the board of Viridor Limited and will retain his directorship of that company.
62 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Martin David Angle BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI Gerard Dominic Connell MA Kenneth David Woodier, Non-executive Director Senior Independent Solicitor, CMA, DMS, CPE Law Committees: Audit, Sustainability, Non-executive Director Group General Counsel & Company Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Committees: Audit Chairman, Secretary Sustainability, Nomination, Remuneration Committees: Executive Appointed on 1 December 2008.
Martin currently holds non-executive Appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard Appointed company secretary to the Board directorships with Savills Plc, OAO Severstal, currently is also a non-executive director in March 1998.
Ken was formerly the head Shuaa Capital psc and The National and chairman of the audit committee of group legal services at Pennon Group Exhibition Group where he is chairman.
of the Defence Science and Technology Plc then South West Water Plc from In addition he sits on the board of the FIA Laboratory and the independent director, February 1990.
Previously he held senior Foundation where he is a vice-chairman.
finance and investment, of the Nuclear legal positions with H. P. Bulmer Holdings Formerly he held senior positions with Terra Decommissioning Fund Company Limited.
Plc, Investors in Industry Plc 3i and Severn Firma Capital Partners and various of its He was previously group finance director Trent Water.
He is a director of the Devon portfolio companies, including the executive of Wincanton Plc.
Before that he was & Somerset Law Society and a member chairmanship of Waste Recycling Group a director of Hill Samuel and a managing of its governance committee.
Before that he was the group director of Bankers Trust, having trained finance director of TI Group Plc and held originally at Price Waterhouse.
He is also a number of senior investment banking a governor of Kings College School, positions with SG Warburg & Co Ltd, Morgan Wimbledon.
Gerard is due to retire from Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Dinah Alison Nichols CB, BA Hons Gill Ann Rider CB, PhD, FCIPD Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Committees: Audit, Sustainability Chairman, Committees: Audit, Sustainability Nomination, Remuneration Chairman with effect from 2 August 2013, Nomination, Remuneration Appointed on 12 June 2003.
Dinah was formerly Director General Environment Appointed on 1 September 2012.
Gill currently at the Department for Environment, Food holds non-executive directorships with Charles and Rural Affairs and previously held various Taylor Consulting Plc, the Chartered Institute senior appointments within Government, of Personnel & Development where she is including being head of the water directorate president, fide La Rue Plc where she is chairman during the period of water privatisation.
of the remuneration committee and she is chair She is also a Crown Estate counsellor, of council of the University of Southampton.
a non-executive director of the Land Trust, Formerly Gill was head of the Civil Service chair of Keep Britain Tidy and an external Capability Group in the Cabinet Office reporting member of council of the National Trust.
to the Cabinet Secretary and prior to that held Dinah is due to retire from the Board a number of senior positions with Accenture at the conclusion of the Annual General culminating in the post of chief leadership Meeting on 1 August 2013. officer for the global firm.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 63
