Governance Corporate governance and internal control The Board and its Committees The Board There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the The Directors, their independence Chief Executives of South West Water and responsibilities and Viridor as recorded in the descriptions The Board of Directors at the end of the year of the roles approved by the Board.
comprised the Chairman, three Executive All Directors are now subject to re-election Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
each year in accordance with provision All of the Non-executive Directors were B.
considered by the Board to be independent throughout the year.
None of the relationships The Board or circumstances set out in provision B.
1.1 The Directors on the Board and their of the UK Corporate Governance Code attendance at the 11 scheduled meetings of 2010 Edition the Code applied to them the Board during 2012 13 are shown below: other than in respect of Dinah Nichols who, Appointment date Attendance Board membership following the Annual General Meeting last Chairman year, had served on the Board for more than nine years since her first election.
Following Kenneth Harvey March 1997 11 11 this years Annual General Meeting and Non-executive Directors subject to re-election, Gerard Connell will Martin Angle December 2008 11 11 also have served on the Board for more than nine years since his first election.
However Gerard Connell October 2003 10 11 Dinah and Gerard have been determined by Dinah Nichols June 2003 11 11 the Board to be independent.
The Board Gill Rider September 2012 7 7 is satisfied that they do and will continue to demonstrate independence of character Executive Directors and judgement in the performance of their Colin Drummond April 1992 11 11 roles on the Board.
David Dupont March 2002 11 11 In accordance with the Boards planned Christopher Loughlin August 2006 11 11 succession process, as reported last year, Dinah Nichols will be retiring from All Directors are equally accountable The Board operates by receiving written the Board at the close of the Annual General for the proper stewardship of the Groups reports circulated in advance of its meetings Meeting this year and Gerard Connell will affairs with the Non-executive Directors from the Executive Directors and the Group retire at the close of the Annual General having a particular responsibility for ensuring General Counsel & Company Secretary Meeting in 2014. that strategies proposed for the development on matters within their respective business of the business are critically reviewed.
All of the Non-executive Directors are The Non-executive Directors also critically considered to have the appropriate skills, examine the operational and financial Under the guidance of the Chairman experience in their respective disciplines performance of the Group and fulfil a key all matters before the Board are discussed and personality to bring independent role in corporate accountability through openly and presentations and advice and objective judgement to the Boards their membership of the Committees are received frequently from other senior deliberations.
Their biographies on pages 62 of the Board.
In addition the Chairman holds executives within the Group and from and 63 demonstrate collectively a broad meetings with the Non-executive Directors, external advisers.
range of business, financial and other without the Executive Directors present, relevant experience.
Gerard Connell to discuss performance and strategic issues.
Directors have access to the advice is the Senior Independent Non-executive and services of the Group General Counsel Director.
His duties include leading How the Board operates & Company Secretary and the Board has the annual evaluation of the performance In accordance with Group policies the established a procedure whereby Directors, of the Chairman by the Non-executive Board has a schedule of matters reserved in order to fulfil their duties, may seek Directors and being available as an for its decision and delegates more detailed independent professional advice additional point of contact on the Board consideration of certain matters to Board at the Companys expense.
Gerard is also chairman Committees: to the subsidiary boards of the Audit Committee and in accordance of South West Water and Viridor: The training needs of Directors are reviewed with the Codes principles relating to audit to the Executive Directors: and to the Group as part of the Boards performance committee membership he has recent General Counsel & Company Secretary, evaluation process each year.
and relevant financial experience as set out as appropriate.
The matters reserved in his biography on page 63.
Martin Angle to the Board include the approval of financial is also a member of the Audit Committee statements: acquisitions and disposals: and he has relevant financial experience major items of capital expenditure: as set out in his biography, also on page 63. authority levels for other expenditure: risk management: and approval of the strategic plan and annual operating budgets.
64 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Board Committees Terms of Reference Performance evaluation Dealing with Directors The Board has well developed internal conflicts of interest The Terms of Reference of each of the Audit, procedures to evaluate the performance The Board has in place a procedure Remuneration, Nomination and Sustainability of the whole Board, each Committee, for the consideration and authorisation Committees are set out on the Companys the Chairman, each individual Director of Directors conflicts or possible conflicts website www.
co. uk or and the Group General Counsel & Company with the Companys interests.
This is in available upon request to the Group Secretary.
The evaluation procedure relating accordance with the Directors interests Company Secretary.
to the Board and its Committees was provisions of the Companies Act 2006 once again administered by an external and the Companys Articles of Association governance consultancy, Lintstock.
which grants to Directors authority All participants views were sought via an to approve such conflicts subject online questionnaire on a range of questions to appropriate conditions.
The Remuneration which were specifically designed by the Committee Chairman and the Group General Counsel Board Committees and Company Secretary in conjunction Group policies allocate the tasks with Lintstock to ensure objective evaluation of giving detailed consideration Details of the Remuneration Committee of performance.
Responses were then to specified matters, to monitoring and the Directors remuneration report summarised and evaluated by Lintstock for executive actions and to assessing can be found on pages 72 to 83. the Board and each Committee to consider reward, to the Board Committees as and determine whether any changes should set out in the remaining sections of this be made to be more effective.
corporate governance report on pages 66 to 69 and the Directors remuneration The Board considered the findings of the report on pages 72 and 73. evaluation and, while performance was again considered to be satisfactory overall, a number of areas were identified where enhancements to Board practice could be made.
These included more liaison with subsidiary boards and allocating more time for strategic discussion and presentations from management on key business issues.
The Board will be monitoring implementation of these enhancements over the coming months to ensure that they are successfully implemented.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated separately by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Chairmans other significant commitments outside the Group did not change during the year and the Board was satisfied that such commitments did not prejudice the Chairmans performance in relation to his Group role.
He will be relinquishing his non-executive directorship on the Board of National Grid in July 2013.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 65 Governance Corporate governance and internal control Continued Turnbull Recommendations.
Deloitte The Audit Committee undertook a full review and, whilst concluding that the Groups risk culture and processes were generally satisfactory, made a number of recommendations to enable more focused attention on key risks at Board level.
As part of the Groups risk review process the key areas of sensitivity to the Group have been reassessed and these are set out on pages 36 to 47.
We have concentrated on the high level key risks to the Group and have, where appropriate, provided an indication of how the level of risk has changed over the past year.
As reported in previous Annual Reports we continue to monitor carefully the effectiveness of our external auditors as well as their independence, bearing in mind that it is recognised there is an ongoing need to use our auditors firm for non-audit services.
Gerard Connell, Audit Committee Chairman We have full regard to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Committee membership Appointment date Meeting attendance and ensure that our procedures Committee Chairman and safeguards meet these standards.
Gerard Connell October 2003 6 6 Periodically a detailed review of the provision Members of external auditors is undertaken in Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 accordance with best practice and in line with the latest edition September 2012 Dinah Nichols June 2003 6 6 UK Corporate Governance Code it is now Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 our policy to review the external auditor appointment by putting it out to tender Our activities during the year the appropriateness and prudence of at least every 10 years.
The last such A continuing focus has been reviewing management estimates.
Key issues review was undertaken in 2006 when the the systems and controls in place in Viridor debated included discount rates and the current auditors were appointed following a to manage its complex and regionalised determination of cash generating units.
Viridor has been In addition the auditors appointment is re-assessing and enhancing its processes At Group level the going concern reviewed annually by the Committee.
As and controls, including planning for the position was reviewed and it was part of this annual review the Committee development of a new suite of IT systems, concluded that there was a reasonable considers the tenure, quality and fees of to manage the strong growth expected from expectation that the Group had adequate the auditors.
its energy from waste plants, its recycling resources to continue its operations businesses and its major contracts with for the foreseeable future.
Our policy for the engagement of the waste authorities.
The Committee was auditors firm for non-audit work involves pleased to note, for example, that audit In South West Water the emphasis has been the Group Director of Finance setting out review of the self-assessment processes on continuing to improve the efficiency of its in a report to the Committee the reasons implemented at site level and a focus on systems whilst ensuring that risks are being for appointing the auditors firm for any the control responsibilities of local business appropriately assessed and controls in place material work and obtaining the approval managers have together contributed to are operating satisfactorily.
The Committee of the Committee.
We carefully review an enhancement of the quality of the risk was pleased to note that South West Water whether it is necessary for the auditors assessment and monitoring within Viridors reviewed and refreshed its risk assessment firm to carry out such work and we will regional activities.
and internal control processes during only grant approval for their appointment the year in preparation for revised reporting if we are satisfied that the auditors Towards the year-end there was particular protocols to Ofwat and its next Periodic independence and objectivity are focus on the impairment review in Viridor.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the key assumptions on which cashflow We also re-assessed our overall Group risk The Companys auditors assist in this projections were based and considered review processes during the year bearing in process by ensuring that the senior partner a number of alternative scenarios with mind that it was 12 years since the Group responsible for the external audit of the appropriate sensitivity analysis, to test introduced detailed risk management policies Group remains responsible for such audit and procedures in accordance with the for no more than five years and that there 66 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements is a Quality Review Partner who is involved These PPP contracts are of vital importance they were appropriate to provide a fair in planning the audit and in the reviewing to the long-term strategic development of assessment of the financial performance of the final accounts of the Company Viridor and it is critical that Viridor should be of the Group including assessing any critical matters able to benefit from the best advice available Agreeing the external auditors strategy which may be identified in the audit.
The number of PPP contract for carrying out the audit during the past opportunities is now declining which should financial year The auditors have also confirmed lead to a corresponding decline in corporate Carrying out a review of the Half to the Committee that they have finance fees payable.
Yearly Report with the external auditors complied with all relevant guidance Considering a report from the external issued by the Auditing Practices Board Another area of particular importance auditors on the review of the financial and have implemented appropriate to the Committee is the internal audit year-end and meeting them in the safeguards including: activities of the Group.
The Group has absence of management to discuss a longstanding and effective centralised All non-audit related services, their remit and any issues arising from internal audit function led by an experienced where necessary, being performed the audit, including managements head of function who makes a significant by personnel independent of the audit treatment of significant judgements which contribution to the ability of the Audit engagement team the auditors had confirmed following Committee to deliver its responsibilities.
No work being undertaken that would discussion with management were require the auditors to act in a capacity considered to be satisfactory A Group Internal Audit Plan is approved in as an advocate Reviewing the effectiveness of the September each year.
It takes account of the No aspect of the auditing engagement Groups internal controls, including activities to be undertaken by the external partners performance being assessed all material financial, operational auditor and also the Groups annual and on the level of non-audit fees charged and compliance controls and risk ongoing risk management reviews.
This to the Company management systems approach seeks to ensure that there is a The Committee Chairman meeting programme of internal and external audit Monitoring and reviewing the with the auditors independent senior reviews focused on key risk areas throughout effectiveness of the Groups internal audit partner periodically to discuss the scope the Group.
function and approving the annual internal and performance of their work.
audit plan The Group Audit Manager reports quarterly Reviewing the findings of the internal Set out on page 103 is the level of fees to the Committee on audit reviews audit function and reviewing paid to the Companys auditors firm undertaken and their findings and there are and monitoring managements for audit services, or audit-related services regular informal discussions and meetings responsiveness to such findings and non-audit services, following the between the Group Audit Manager Overseeing the relationship with guidance proposed by the Auditing Practices and the Audit Committee Chairman.
the external auditors including Boards Ethical Standards Guidance their appointment, remuneration, for Auditors.
The areas of the business that received re-appointment and the monitoring attention from Group Internal Audit over the of their independence and objectivity It is recognised that the level of nonpast year included: particularly having regard to the supply audit fees payable to the Companys Pennon - group treasury of any non-audit services by the auditors firm in the past year was in excess and group insurance auditors firm of the audit fee paid.
This was primarily due Viridor - acquisitions and due Reviewing the level of audit and non-audit to fees paid to the corporate finance arm of diligence: recycling including trading fees paid.
the auditors firm in relation to the major new and foreign exchange management: PPP contract gains by Viridor.
We considered Lakeside EfW: core sales processes After consideration of the reports provided carefully the reasons for the engagement including landfill and collections: by the external auditors, and our assessment of the auditors firm in accordance and environmental provisions of the performance and independence with the process described above.
Of South West Water - core income of the auditors during the year in conjunction paramount importance was the continuing and billing processes: bank payment with the Group Director of Finance, independence of the auditors which the processes: developer services and new we consider that it is appropriate that Committee was satisfied was maintained due connections: business development the external auditors be re-appointed to the safeguards followed by the auditors & sales ledger: reactive maintenance: and will make an appropriate firm as described above.
recommendation to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
We were also satisfied that it was appropriate We have also considered a range of matters to appoint the auditors firm to undertake during the year in accordance with our It is our practice as an additional assurance, such work because of their specialist established calendar of business and Terms at the end of meetings of the Committee, knowledge and the limited number of of Reference including in particular: to hold separate meetings with the external consultants with the expertise to undertake auditors and the internal Group Audit such engagements.
Reviewing the accounting policies Manager without management present and reporting judgements adopted to discuss their respective areas of activity by the Group in preparing the financial during the previous period and any issues statements.
We were satisfied that arising from their respective audits.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 67 Governance Corporate governance and internal control Continued The Sustainability Committee In addition the Committee considered: The 2012 13 Group, South West Water and Viridor sustainability reports: and the associated verifiers reports for 2012 13 and his recommendations for the 2013 14 Reports Progress against the sustainability targets for 2012 13 Sustainability targets for 2013 14 The annual review of the coverage and appropriateness of Group policies.
In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought to comply with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
The business review on pages 48 to 57 contains the Groups 2013 annual sustainability report.
Dinah Nichols, Sustainability Committee Chairman Committee membership Appointment date Meeting attendance Committee Chairman Dinah Nichols November 2006 6 6 Members Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 Gerard Connell November 2006 5 6 Colin Drummond November 2006 6 6 Christopher Loughlin November 2006 6 6 Gill Rider September 2012 2 2 The Sustainability Committees duties, During the year the Committee considered in the context of the requirement for a wide range of matters in accordance companies to conduct their business with its Terms of Reference including: in a responsible manner in relation developments and progress in carbon to environmental, social and governance management and reduction ESG matters, are to review the strategies, driving sustainability through policies, management, initiatives, targets the Groups supply chains and performance of the Pennon Group increasing the sustainability of the Groups of companies in the areas of occupational transport fleet and operations health and safety and security: environment: the impact of the Groups charitable workplace policies: non-financial regulatory donations and community support compliance and the role of the Group in society.
the Groups health and safety performance and plans the Groups workplace policies and performance, including diversity and equality of opportunity, employee training and development, opportunities including apprenticeship schemes and the Viridor in-house degree.
68 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements The Nomination Committee The Boards diversity policy In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 edition the Committee is pleased to report that the Board has a Boardroom Diversity Policy which confirms that the Board is committed to: The search for Board candidates being conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender Satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to senior management to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group Ken Harvey, Nomination Committee Chairman and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
In addition, within the spirit of Principle B.
2 Committee membership Appointment date Meeting attendance of the Code, the Board will endeavour Committee Chairman to achieve and subsequently maintain: Kenneth Harvey March 1997 5 5 A minimum of 25% female Members representation on the Board by 2015 A minimum of 25% female Martin Angle December 2008 5 5 representation on the Groups senior Gerard Connell October 2003 4 5 management team by 2015.
Dinah Nichols June 2003 5 5 Currently the Group has 25% female Gill Rider September 2012 2 2 representation at Board level although this will reduce to 14% when Dinah Nichols retires from the Board after this years Annual The Nomination Committee meets During the year the Committee considered General Meeting.
In a workforce of around as and when required to select the annual performance evaluation 4,500 at 31 March 2013 around 16% were and recommend to the Board suitable results for the Committee: considered women.
In senior middle management candidates for appointment as Executive and approved the appointment of an executive positions the female representation and Non-executive Directors to the Board executive director to the Viridor board was around 16%.
and to the Viridor and South West Water and a non-executive director to the Board, boards, determine the nomination process both with the assistance of external search As well as its Boardroom Diversity Policy and review succession plans.
It is consultants KORN FERRY Whitehead the Group has a number of policies the practice of the Committee, led Mann and Norman Broadbent respectively embracing workplace matters, by the Chairman, to appoint an external who have no other connection with including non-discrimination search consultancy to assist in any the Company: reviewed succession plans and equal opportunities policies.
throughout the Group: and commenced the process, with the assistance of an The Committee is required by the Board external search consultant, Zygos which to review and monitor compliance with has no other connection with the Company, the Boardroom Diversity Policy and report for the appointment of a successor on the targets, achievement against those to the Chief Executive, Viridor, who is due targets and overall compliance in the Annual to retire from his post when an appointment Report each year.
has been made currently expected to be September 2013.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 69 Governance Corporate governance and internal control Continued Internal control Wider aspects of internal control All Executive Directors and senior managers Internal control review The Board is responsible for maintaining are required to certify on an annual basis An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall the Groups system of internal control that they have effective controls in place to internal control compliance by the Group to safeguard shareholders investment manage risks and to operate in compliance is undertaken in respect of each financial year and the Groups assets and for reviewing with legislation and Group procedures.
and subsequently up to the date its effectiveness.
The system is designed of this report to assist the Audit Committee to manage rather than eliminate the risk We also have a Whistleblowing Policy in considering the Group internal audit of failure to achieve business objectives and we thoroughly investigate any allegations plan for the forthcoming financial year and can only provide reasonable of misconduct and irregularity and consider and also the business review for the Annual and not absolute assurance against material the implications for our control environment.
The Group General Counsel misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing In the normal course of business & Company Secretary initially carries out process for identifying, evaluating and investigations into irregularities may the evaluation with Directors and senior managing the significant risks faced by be ongoing as of the date of the approval management for consideration by the Group that has been in place throughout of the financial statements.
the Audit Committee and subsequently 2012 13 and up to the date of the approval for final evaluation by the Board.
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective control and risk In addition the Audit Committee regularly The Board confirms that it continues management is embedded within reviews the operation and effectiveness to apply procedures in accordance with the organisation and that the Group is in of the internal control framework and annually the UK Corporate Governance Code a position to react appropriately to new risks reviews the scope of work, authority and the Guidance on Internal Control as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting and resources of the Companys internal The Turnbull Guidance which suggests the Group are set out in the business review audit function.
The Committee reports means of applying the internal control part on pages 36 to 47. and makes recommendations to the Board of the Code.
As part of these procedures on such reviews.
For 2012 13 and up the Board has a Group Risk Management Internal control framework to the date of the approval of the Annual Policy which provides for the identification of The Group also has a well established Report and Accounts, both the Audit key risks in relation to the achievement of the internal control framework which Committee and the Board were satisfied business objectives of the Group, monitoring is operated and which applies in relation with the effectiveness of the Group Risk of such risks and annual evaluation of the to the process for preparing the Groups Management Policy and the internal control overall process, as described in more detail consolidated accounts.
framework and their operation within below.
The Policy is applied by all business the Group.
units within the Group in accordance This framework comprises: with an annual timetable.
Further information on the internal control A clearly defined structure which review is set out on page 66 in relation delegates an appropriate level of authority, Risk identification to the Audit Committee.
responsibility and accountability, including A full risk and control assessment responsibility for internal financial control, is undertaken annually by the management Going concern to management of operating units of each business to identify financial and Having considered the Groups funding A comprehensive budgeting and reporting non-financial risks which are then regularly position and financial projections the function with an annual budget approved updated.
Each business compiles as part Directors have a reasonable expectation by the Board of Directors, which also of regular management reports an enhanced that the Group has adequate resources monitors the financial reporting process, and focused assessment of key risks against to continue in operational existence for monthly results and updated forecasts corporate objectives.
At each meeting the the foreseeable future.
For this reason they for the year against budget Board receives from the Executive Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis Documented financial control procedures.
details of any new high-level risks identified in preparing the financial statements.
Managers of operating units are required and how they are to be managed, together to confirm annually that they have with details of any changes to existing risks Directors responsibilities statements adequate financial controls in operation and their management.
The subsidiary The Directors are responsible for preparing and to report all material areas of financial boards of South West Water and Viridor the Annual Report, the Directors risk.
Compliance with procedures also receive at each meeting similar reports remuneration report and the financial is reviewed and tested by the Companys in respect of their own areas of responsibility.
statements in accordance with applicable internal audit function In addition the Group Director of Finance law and regulations.
An investment appraisal process for is responsible for monitoring the Group Risk evaluating proposals for all major capital Register and for reporting on key risks and Company law requires the Directors to expenditure and acquisitions, with defined how they are managed at regular intervals prepare financial statements for each financial levels of approval and a system for to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
Under that law the Directors have monitoring the progress of capital projects prepared the Group and Company financial A post-investment evaluation statements in accordance with International process for major capital expenditure Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and acquisitions to assess the success adopted by the European Union.
of the project and learn any lessons to be applied to future projects.
70 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Under company law the Directors must The Directors are responsible for the d The Companys rules about the not approve the financial statements unless maintenance and integrity of the Companys appointment and replacement they are satisfied that they give a true and fair website pennon-group.
co. uk Legislation of Directors are contained in the Articles view of the state of affairs of the Group in the United Kingdom governing the and accord with usual English company and the Company and of the profit or loss preparation and dissemination of financial law provisions.
The powers of directors of the Group for the year.
statements may differ from legislation are determined by UK legislation in other jurisdictions.
and the Articles in force from time to time.
In preparing these financial statements Changes to the Articles must be approved the Directors are required to: Corporate governance statements by the Companys shareholders The following disclosures are made by passing a special resolution: Select suitable accounting policies pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the Large and then apply them consistently e The Directors have the power to make and Medium-sized Companies and Groups purchases of the Companys own shares Make judgements and accounting Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 in issue as set out in the Directors report estimates which are reasonable and Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing Authoritys on page 59 Purchase of own Ordinary and prudent Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
No such purchases have been State whether applicable IFRSs made during the year.
The Directors also as adopted by the European Union As at 31 March 2013: have the authority to allot shares up to have been followed, subject to any a Details of the Companys issued share an aggregate nominal value of: material departures disclosed capital, which consists of Ordinary shares i 49,141,234 such amount to be and explained in the financial statements.
of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set reduced by any shares allotted or rights out in note 33 to the financial statements granted under ii below in excess The Directors confirm that they have on pages 131 to 133.
All of the Companys of 49,141,234 or: ii 98,282,468 complied with the above requirements issued shares are fully paid up, rank by way of rights issue such amount in preparing the financial statements.
equally in all respects and are listed to be reduced by any shares allotted on the Official List and traded on or rights granted from i above The Directors are responsible for keeping the London Stock Exchange.
The rights which were approved by shareholders adequate accounting records that are and obligations attaching to the at the 2012 Annual General Meeting sufficient to show and explain the Companys Companys shares, in addition to those AGM.
In addition, shareholders approved transactions and disclose with reasonable conferred on their holders by law, a resolution giving the Directors a limited accuracy at any time the financial position are set out in the Companys Articles authority to allot shares for cash other of the Group and the Company and enable of Association Articles, copies of which than pro rata to existing shareholders.
them to ensure that the financial statements can be obtained from Companies House These resolutions remain valid until and the Directors remuneration report in the UK or by writing to the Group the conclusion of this years AGM.
comply with the Companies Act 2006 Company Secretary at the Companys Similar resolutions will be proposed and, as regards the Group financial registered office.
The Directors have statements, article 4 of the International no present intention to issue Ordinary Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
The holders of the Companys shares shares other than pursuant to the They are also responsible for safeguarding are entitled to receive the Companys Companys employee share schemes the assets of the Group and the Company reports and accounts and in relation and Scrip Dividend Alternative: and and hence for taking reasonable steps to general meetings of the Company f There are a number of agreements for the prevention and detection of fraud they have the right to attend and speak, which take effect, alter or terminate and other irregularities.
exercise voting rights and appoint proxies: upon a change of control of the Company b There are no restrictions on the transfer following a takeover bid, such as bank Each of the Directors, whose names of issued shares of the Company or on loan agreements, Eurobond and functions are listed on pages 62 and the exercise of voting rights attached documentation, hybrid capital securities 63, confirms that, to the best of his or her to them, except where the Company documentation, private placement knowledge: has exercised its right to suspend their debt and employees share plans.
a The financial statements, which have voting rights or to prohibit their transfer None of these is considered to be been prepared in accordance with following the omission of their holder significant in terms of their potential impact International Financial Reporting Standards or any person interested in them to provide on the business of the Group as a whole.
IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true the Company with information requested and fair view of the assets, liabilities, by it in accordance with Part 22 of the By Order of the Board financial position and profit of the Group Companies Act 2006 or where their holder Ken Woodier and of the Company, and is precluded from exercising voting rights Group General Counsel b The Directors report contained by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing & Company Secretary on pages 4 to 59 includes a fair review Rules or the City Code on Takeovers 25 June 2013 of the development and performance and Mergers: of the business and position of the c Details of significant direct or indirect Company and the Group, together holdings of securities of the Company with a description of the principal risks are set out in the shareholder analysis and uncertainties they face.
on page 144: Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 71
