Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective management of the business and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
The Group complies with the laws and endeavours to observe the customs and culture in the countries in which it operates and does business.
The Group expects all Directors and employees to strive to achieve the highest standards and to act with respect and integrity.
The Board monitors and keeps under review the Companys corporate governanceframework.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that throughout 2013 it complied with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
This report, together with the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 66 to 80 provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board has eight members: the Non-Executive Chairman Paul Walker, two joint Chief Executive Officers Simon Denyer and Oliver Slipper, four Independent Non-Executive Directors Peter Williams, Marc Brown, Gabby Logan and Peter Parmenter and one Non-Executive Director Jrg Mohaupt.
David Surtees, the Groups former Chief Financial Officer, served on the Board throughout 2013 and up until he left the Company on 31 January 2014.
The Groups new Chief Financial Officer will join the Board when he or she is appointed.
The biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 52 to 53 and details of their membership of the Boards committees are set out below.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and approval which include, but are not limited to: the Groups business strategy: annual budget and operating plans: major capital expenditure and acquisitions: the systems of corporate governance, internal control and risk management: the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and interim management statements: and any interim dividend and the recommendation of any final dividend.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during 2013.
The Groups strategy was regularly reviewed.
All Directors participated in discussions relating to the Groups strategy, financial and trading performance and risk management.
The Board considers it met sufficiently often to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings in 2013: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Paul Walker 8 8 1 1 Simon Denyer 8 8 Oliver Slipper 8 8 David Surtees 8 8 Peter Williams 8 8 3 3 4 4 1 1 Marc Brown 8 8 3 3 4 4 1 1 1 Jrg Mohaupt 6 8 1 Peter Parmenter 7 8 2 3 3 4 1 1 Gabby Logan 8 8 3 3 4 4 1 P eter Parmenter and Jrg Mohaupt were unable to attend all Board and committee meetings due to work commitments At the request of any Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Chairman will arrange meetings consisting of only the Non-Executive Directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
During 2013, the Non-Executive Chairman maintained regular contact and met with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is chaired by Paul Walker.
The Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness.
Simon Denyer and Oliver Slipper are joint Chief Executive Officers and are jointly responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officers are formally set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
58 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Board balance and independence Paul Walker, Peter Williams, Marc Brown, Peter Parmenter and Gabby Logan are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of Management and free from any business relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Directors consider that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience by virtue of the Directors varied backgrounds seebiographical details on pages 52 and 53.
Board appointments Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election every year in line with the Companys Articles of Association and provision A.
Information and professional development On appointment, Independent Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, including meetings with members of the Management team and briefings on particular issues.
As an ongoing process, Directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the Directors knowledge of the Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations from Senior Management throughout the Group.
The Chairman and Executive Directors consult with each Non-Executive Director to ensure that they are all able to allocate sufficient time to the Group to discharge their responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
Where there are occasions when Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity to review meeting papers and submit comments to the Non-Executive Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly Chief Executive Officer report and a monthly financial report which provides the Board with information on operational and financial performance and the Groups business plans.
All Directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
In addition, all Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all SeniorManagement.
Board performance evaluation The Board recognises that it is required to regularly undertake a formal and rigorous review of its performance and that of its committees.
The Board engages in continuous self-assessment and analysis of its effectiveness.
The Chairman and Company Secretary are already in the process of arranging full external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, anticipated to be complete by the end of Q3, 2014.
Committees The Board is supported by a number of committees including the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the Independent Non-Executive Directors are members of each of the principal committees of the Board.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are available on request by writing to the Company Secretary at the Companysregistered address and are available on the Groups website: http: investors.
The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with third-party consultants and independent professional advisers and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them in developing their respective roles.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Corporate Governance continued Peter Williams Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Audit Committee meetings in 2013 Audit Committee Peter Williams Chair 3 3 Marc Brown 3 3 Peter Parmenter 2 3 Gabby Logan 3 3 The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the annual and half-yearly financial statements of the Group, and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: assessing whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes the annual financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model andstrategy: considering the scope of the annual external audit and the work undertaken by the external auditor: making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor: developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the external auditor for the supply of non-audit services: reviewing the Groups internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems: overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters.
The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of the Senior Management positions previously held by Peter Williams see biographical details on pages 52 to 53.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the table above.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Joint Chief Executive Officers, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairman of the Board and the Groups external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for assessing whether the Group requires an internal audit function.
TheGroup does not currently have an internal audit function.
Given that most of the Groups financial functions are currently centralised, such a function is not considered necessary.
This will be reconsidered as the Group grows.
During the year the Audit Committee was presented by the Groups Management with updates of the Groups current internal control procedures and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements and the Groups internal controls and risk management systems are appropriate.
The Audit Committee considers that the Group has continued to make good progress on risk during the year, resulting in better process, understanding and awareness combined with a greater engagement right across the business.
The debate on risk, risk tolerance and risk appetite will continue to be a focus for the Board and the Committee during the nextyear.
60 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance In addition, the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the whistle-blowing arrangements in place to enable employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have.
The Committee is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Audit Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted, whether Management have made appropriate estimates and judgements and also seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
The Committee has reviewed the following principal issues for the year ended 31 December 2013: Accounting for acquisitions appropriate identification and fair value determination of intangible assets arising from the acquisitions of Opta, Sporting News and Voetbalzone and the useful lives attached to each as well as the appropriate identification and fair value determination of other assets and liabilities arising from those acquisitions.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the accounting treatment adopted was appropriate.
The Group, reflecting the acquisitive nature in the last two years, chooses to highlight a number of items as exceptional to better illustrate the underlying performance of the Group.
These costs are non-recurring or relate directly to acquisitions.
In addition, exceptional items include certain integration costs including appropriate internal salary costs which are expected to decline in 2014.
Accounting for rights costs appropriate recognition and valuation of rights costs including the appropriate consideration in relation to the Groups change in accounting estimate for these costs.
The revised approach, as more fully described in note 1 of the financial statements, requires estimates in respect of future pattern of economic benefits to the Group arising from these costs.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the accounting treatment adopted is appropriate and that the judgements underpinning this treatment most notably in respect of future revenues attached to these costs are appropriate.
Consideration of impairment for goodwill with an indefinite useful life considering whether goodwill with an indefinite useful life should be impaired is a judgmental exercise which requires estimates of future revenues, costs and the use of appropriate discount rates and growth rates based on the expected growth of the business.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the accounting treatment adopted is appropriate and that no impairments were required following a review of the underlying calculations and assumptions.
Going concern the Audit Committee has assessed the Groups cashflow and bank covenant forecasts and is satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
Auditor appointment Key to giving the Board confidence in the Groups approach to controls and risk is the effectiveness of the Groups external audit process.
Grant Thornton UK LLP had been the Groups auditor since 2005.
Following the finalisation of the Groups 2012 audit being the first full financial year that the Group had operated as a public company the Audit Committee considered Grant Thorntons role as auditor.
The Audit Committee concluded that in light of the following items it should issue a request for proposals for external audit and audit relatedservices: 2012 represented the final year that the exiting Grant Thornton audit partner was allowed to serve under the Code, having completed seven years of service five of which were before the Companys listing : and the changing shape and continued international expansion of the Group both organically and by acquisition.
The Audit Committee issued a request for proposals to provide the following external audit and audit related services: The audit of the Groups Parent Company, the Groups accounts and those of certain subsidiaries: To report in the Annual Report whether certain remuneration and governance disclosures were in accordance with appropriate legislation and rules regulations: and To review the interim financial statements.
Five firms were invited to tender, including the incumbent auditor.
Their proposals were assessed by the Audit Committee against the following criteria: Organisation and capability including the firms global coverage, experience, scope of service, technical expertise and support culture and independence assurance: Audit approach and delivery including knowledge of the business, audit planning process, quality of accounting judgements, timely resolution of audit issues and transition experience: Audit quality including quality assurance, audit effectiveness, audit reporting, integrity, independence, objectivity, process improvement and added value: Resourcing and engagement team including quality of proposed engagement team, skills and personal qualities of audit partners and leadership, team structure, resourcing model and succession, responsiveness: and Fees and terms.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Corporate Governance continued The process comprised the following stages: A review of an information dataroom compiled by the Groups Management: Interviews for each firm with key members of Management: A written proposal to the Audit Committee: and Two firms KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP were then selected by the Audit Committee to make presentations to the Audit Committee and key management including one of the Groups CEOs, the CFO, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Financial Reporting and the GeneralCounsel.
All five firms met the criteria for appointment: the Committee concluded, however, that Deloitte demonstrated the most appropriate audit approach and the capability to deliver a high-quality audit service to the Group.
There were, and are, no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of independent auditor.
The Committee notes the latest guidance from the Financial Reporting Council following the report from the Competition Commission issued on 15 October 2013.
Amongst other things this requires the Audit Committee to: Assume sole responsibility for audit matters such as agreeing audit scope and audit fees, advising the Board on the reappointment of external auditor and initiating tenders: Initiate a new advisory vote on the Audit Committee report: Issue a mandatory tender of the external audit every ten years: Note the increased frequency of reviews by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team and the public disclosure of the grade awarded following the review: and Ensure compliance with the prohibition of Big Four only clauses in loan documentation.
The Committee has reviewed the guidance and will implement these recommendations as required for the 2014 financial year.
Despite appointing a new auditor in the year any recommendation for their reappointment will be the subject of rigorous review each year.
Indeed, the Audit Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality which will involve consideration of the following: the audit partners, with focus on the lead audit engagement partner, the audit team, planning and scope of the audit and identification of areas of audit risk, the execution of the audit, the role of Management in an effective audit process, communications by the auditors with the Audit Committee, how the auditors support the work of the Audit Committee, how the audit contributes insights and added value, a review of independence and objectivity of the audit firm and the quality of the formal audit report toshareholders.
Effectiveness of the external audit process An assessment of the external audit process will be completed each year by the Audit Committee and senior members of the Companys finance team.
Feedback will also be sought from the CEOs and divisional management.
The assessment tool adopted will be comprehensive and will be completed by way of a formal questionnaire in the first year and thereafter every three years, with the key areas being reviewed every year.
The feedback from this process will be considered by the Audit Committee and will be provided both to the auditors and to Management.
Action plans arising will also be reviewed by the Committee.
The effectiveness of Management in the external audit process is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification and resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, Managements approach to the value of the independent audit, the booking of any audit adjustments arising and the timely provision of draft public documents for review by the auditor and the Audit Committee.
Every three years, the Audit Committee will request that a partner independent of the audit engagement team discusses the quality of the external audit process with the Audit Committee chairman and the CFO using this evaluation framework.
Non-audit services and independence The Audit Committee will also assess the audit firms independence through challenge to Management.
The Audit Committee has considered, and will continue to consider, the audit firms independence with reference to their audit and non-audit fees which for 2013 are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has concluded that the audit firm is independent.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that it provides.
The Committee monitors the types of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditor to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
Any significant proposed non-audit assignments require prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried out by the external auditor in addition to their audit work.
62 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Accountability The Board acknowledges that this report should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Directors Responsibilities Statement which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the independent auditors report which includes a statement by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether the 2013 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and the Audit Committee reviews its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to ensure internal control.
As part of this review there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
In accordance with the revised guidance for Directors on internal control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group were as follows: during the year the Audit Committee met to evaluate risk and consider the appropriateness of the Groups risk assessment systems and internal control policies: the Group consists of a number of units each with its own management structure which forms part of the overall management structure of the Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the Executive Directors on a monthly basis: the significant risks faced by the Group are considered regularly by the Groups Risk Committee and the Executive Committee is charged with the development and implementation of appropriate monitoring and mitigation plans, where appropriate: the Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary and re-forecasting control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriate detailed level.
A summary supported by commentary and performance measures is presented to the Board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance: the Group has established procedures for the delegation of authority: the Groups divisions operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are laid down in policy and procedure manuals and cover key issues such as authorisation levels: and the Group has established policies and procedures designed to ensure the maintenance of accurate accounting records sufficient to enable the preparation of financial statements, and consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the financial reporting frameworks applicable to the Group, the main feature of which is a structured system of review and approval by Management and theBoard.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings in 2013 Remuneration Committee Peter Williams 4 4 Marc Brown Chair 4 4 Peter Parmenter 3 4 Gabby Logan 4 4 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: Considering and evaluating remuneration arrangements for Senior Managers and other key employees and making recommendations to the Board.
Its purpose is to support the strategic aims of the business and shareholder interest, by enabling the recruitment, motivation and retention of key employees while complying with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 66 to 80.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises five Independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors attendance at Nomination Committee meetings in 2013 Nomination Committee Paul Walker Chair 1 1 Peter Williams 1 1 Marc Brown 1 1 Peter Parmenter 1 1 Gabby Logan 1 1 The Nomination Committee is responsible for: Reviewing the balance and composition of the Board and its committees and for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal of appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary balance of skills and experience and there is in place an appropriate plan for orderly succession to the Board.
Theprocedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference.
The Committee also ensured that succession is a key agenda item for the Board and have spent time discussing talent and succession for Senior Managers in the business.
During 2014 the Committee will oversee the appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer, continue to support succession plans and development of the Executive Director team, continue to review ongoing knowledge and training for all Directors and continue to ensure the Committee plans for the evolution of Non-Executive Directors over the medium term to maintain the appropriate mix of skills.
During 2014 the Nomination Committee intends to consider and review the Groups succession planning arrangements and the Boards Performance Evaluation.
The Nomination Committee met once during 2013.
The table above gives details of Directors attendance at that meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered address.
64 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance Corporate Responsibility Details of the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility are set out on pages 46 to 47.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communication with its shareholders and does this through the Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim management statements and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, one of the Joint Chief Executive Officers makes and in future the new Chief Financial Officer will make presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary and interim results.
These presentations are made available on the Companys website: www.
The Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting berequested.
Annual General Meeting Voting at the 2014 Annual General Meeting will be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced and details of the votes will be available to view on the Companys website www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
