Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 38 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Board of Directors presents its Directors Report incorporating the Key actions of the Board Corporate Governance Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Board reviewed and approved the Companys current strategy and Capital Return Plan at its annual strategy meeting in October 2013.
Leadership and effectiveness Full details of the current strategy are set out in the Strategic Report on page 7.
Board composition The Board met on seven occasions in 2013, including the annual The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors at Board Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Nicholas Wrigley and Committee meetings during the year.
became Chairman on 21 April 2011, and he remains an Executive The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
The Executive Directors have consideration and decision.
The schedule includes the approval of extensive experience in the housebuilding industry.
Jeff Fairburn the Groups strategy, major investments, annual and half year results, became Chief Executive in April 2013.
He joined the Group in 1989 interim management statements and trading updates, review of and was appointed to the Board in June 2009, having held a number of performance, dividend and cash return policy, monitoring risk and positions within the business.
Mike Killoran joined the Group in 1996 ensuring adequate financial controls are available.
The schedule is and has been Finance Director for the last 14 years.
The implementation of the Board strategy and has been with the Group since 1986 and was appointed to the Board policies are delegated to Executive Directors and senior management in January 2013: David Jenkinson joined the Group in 1997 and was within the Group.
appointed to the Board on 13 December 2013 and both held senior operational positions within the Group prior to their appointments.
Board diversity and independence The Senior Independent Director is Richard Pennycook, who has held The Board recognises that a diverse workforce can bring benefits to the position since April 2012.
Neil Davidson served as Non-Executive the Group and, by the same measure, the Directors recognise the value Director until his retirement in April 2013. diversity including gender can bring to the Board.
When considering The Non-Executive Directors have complementary skill sets bringing the nomination and appointment of new Directors, the Nomination substantial and diverse experience to the Board.
Nicholas Wrigley and Committee evaluates candidates skills, knowledge and experience in Jonathan Davie both have considerable experience of financial markets order that they nominate new directors on the basis of merit and overall and capital raising.
Richard Pennycook has extensive financial and suitability.
When considering a new appointment the Board takes into retail experience gained from his current role as Chief Financial Officer account the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the of the Co-operative Group and formerly in his role as Finance Director Board.
Subject to the above principle, the Directors continue to work of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
Mark Preston has wide ranging towards appointing a meaningful percentage of women to the Board experience in retail, commercial and residential property as Chief in line with the recommendation of Lord Davies Report, whilst taking Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
Marion Sears has extensive into account the total size of the Board.
experience in banking and retail and is currently Senior Independent During the course of 2013 the Nomination Committee recommended Director of Dunelm Group Plc.
to the Board, and the Board approved, the appointment of David Together the balance of skills, experience and personal characteristics of Jenkinson as an Executive Director.
Mr Jenkinson was appointed the Non-Executive Directors result in a diversity of view and opinions to the Board on 13 December 2013 and brings extensive experience to support the Executive Directors and provide excellent advice and in housebuilding.
judgement on the formation and implementation of the Groups The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors Richard Pennycook, strategy.
The Chairman encourages open and honest debate in the spirit Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston and Marion Sears to be independent.
of constructive challenge, which results in high quality decision making The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors disclose in all areas of strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or indirect, In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance which conflicts or may possibly conflict with the interests of the Code 2012 the Code there is a clear written division of responsibilities Company.
No authority to authorise a conflict of interest has been between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which is approved by required during 2013. the Board.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 39 Re-election of Directors During 2013, the Committee oversaw Marion Sears induction as Non-Executive Director following her appointment to the Board on In accordance with Code Provision B.
7.1 all Directors will stand for re- 8 January 2013.
Marions induction included private meetings with election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Boards reasons for supporting Directors, meetings with the Group Company Secretary, Group the re-election of the Chairman Nicholas Wrigley and Non-Executive Directors responsible for IT, Health and Safety, Finance and HR, Directors Richard Pennycook, Jonathan Davie, Mark Preston and site visits and attendance at management meetings at a regional Marion Sears are that they have individually produced excellent operating business.
performance in their duties and have shown a high level of commitment to their roles.
Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of Remuneration Committee appointment are set out on page 50.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Performance evaluation and professional development remuneration of the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Jonathan Davie Chairman, In 2012 the Board appointed Coefficient, part of the Equiniti Group Nicholas Wrigley, Mark Preston and Marion Sears.
Neil Davidson was a of companies to undertake an externally facilitated board evaluation.
member of the Committee until his retirement on 18 April 2013.
All recommendations from that report were implemented during 2013, mainly in respect of administration and procedures relating to the The Committee met four times during 2013 to discuss, consider and Board and its Committee meetings.
approve the policy and remuneration for Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committees key action during the course of the year During 2013 the Board undertook a self-assessment evaluation based on was the review and implementation of the Companys remuneration the principles outlined in the Code.
There were no matters arising, the policy.
In addition the Committee considered in detail Executive Directors confirming that the Board and its Committees were operating Directors remuneration during 2013 and the annual bonus plan effectively in accordance with high corporate governance standards.
In addition to the Board evaluation the Chairman undertakes an Further details of the remuneration policy and package for each annual verbal evaluation of the Executive Directors performance and Director serving during 2013 are set out in the Remuneration Report on an evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors.
Directors undertake a verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Terms of Reference The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their requirements Terms of reference for the Board Committees are available on the for professional development and training and where appropriate Companys website www.
com or from the this has been provided to Directors.
All Directors have access to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training at the Companys Shareholder relations expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good Nomination Committee relations with the Companys shareholders as they increasingly provide useful perspective on governance matters as well as strategy and The members of the Nomination Committee are Nicholas Wrigley financial results.
Chairman, Richard Pennycook and Jonathan Davie who was appointed on 20 February 2013.
Neil Davidson was a member of the Jeff Fairburn and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining Committee until his retirement on 18 April 2013. appropriate communications with institutional investors and analysts, advised by the Groups joint brokers Merrill Lynch and Citigroup The Committee met twice during 2013 to review and consider the together with the financial PR consultants, Citigate Dewe Rogerson.
composition of the Board, to consider Board succession planning Jonathan Davie has responsibility for consulting with shareholders and and to make recommendations for the appointment of a new institutions on matters relating to remuneration policy.
There was full attendance by Directors at the Committee meetings.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for consultation with major shareholders.
The Company monitors the In accordance with the Boards long term succession plans, the constituents of its share register to ensure that its investor relations Committee recommended David Jenkinsons appointment to the Board communications are appropriately targeted at its shareholder base.
following his successful first year as North Division Chief Executive.
The Board is provided with reports and feedback from major The recommendation was approved by the Board.
shareholders and following Directors presentations and meetings with both shareholders and analysts.
All Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions at the meeting or privately.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 40 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued The Company issues regular trading and interim management managements adherence to the Groups policies and procedures in statements to the London Stock Exchange, as well as the publication both of these critically important areas of the business, the carrying of annual and half year financial results.
The Company provides value of the Groups land totalling 1,636.6m at 31 December 2013, shareholders with access to detailed presentations of results at its analyst and the carrying value of work in progress on site totalling 463.5m.
presentations, a recording of which can be viewed on the Companys Similarly the Committee ensures the approach adopted by management website for a period of one year.
in recovering the cost of both land and work in progress remains in line with established Group policies and procedures through regular risk monitoring reports.
The Committee has again reviewed managements The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 assessment of the net realisable value of the Groups land and work in The Company complied with the Code throughout 2013 and continues progress held at 31 December 2013.
The Committee concluded that the to review its governance procedures to maintain proper control and approach adopted by management supported the asset carrying values accountability.
The Code is available from the Financial Reporting and that the consequential release of surplus provision in the year of Council, telephone 0207 492 2300 or online at www.
14.1m as an exceptional item is appropriate.
As the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Rules The Committee receives risk based reports on the accuracy and we confirm that we have complied with both editions of the Code completeness of the Groups sales transaction processes, including published in May 2010 and September 2012. transactions where the Group has retained an equity interest in the new home sold.
The monies remaining due to the Group under the shared Audit Committee equity loan contract are held as receivables and reported as Available for sale financial assets on the Groups balance sheet.
At 31 December 2013 Composition the carrying value of these receivables was 215.4m.
The Committee has reviewed the assumptions adopted by management in support of the The Audit Committee members are Richard Pennycook Chairman, carrying value of these receivables and concluded they are appropriate.
Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston.
Richard Pennycook, as Chairman The Committee monitors the ongoing performance of these receivables of the Committee, has recent relevant financial experience as Chief with respect to redemptions and delinquency and are satisfied that Financial Officer of the Co-operative Group and formerly as Group management have adopted appropriate assumptions in this regard in Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
Jonathan Davie support of the carrying value of these assets.
and Mark Preston also have recent relevant financial experience in their current roles respectively as Chairman of IG Group and Chief Executive The Committee considers that the Group managements view of its of Grosvenor Group Limited.
The Committee met on six occasions accounting policies has resulted in a prudent stance being taken with during 2013 and all members were in attendance at each meeting.
appropriate levels of provisioning and fair value adjustment to recognise The Committee regularly meets the auditors without the presence of the inherent risks of recoverability of the Groups inventory balances the Companys management.
The Committees Chairman also meets and shared equity receivables.
the Group Risk Manager without the Companys management being The other key actions of the Committee during the year were: present at least twice each year.
t GVMM SFWJFX PG MJRVJEJUZ SJTL BOE XIFUIFS UIF SPVQ DBO DPOUJOVF Priorities toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts: The Committees key priorities are the effective governance over t SFWJFX PG IBMG ZFBS BOE BOOVBM SFTVMUT the Groups financial reporting, the adequacy of related disclosures, t SFWJFX PG UIF SPVQ T DVSSFOU UBY TUBUVT the performance of the Group Risk management function and the management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks t PWFSTJHIU PG UIF SPVQ T IFBMUI BOE TBGFUZ TUSBUFHZ BOE QPMJDJFT and related compliance activities.
The Committee also reviews and t SFWJFX PG UIF SPVQ 3JTL 3FHJTUFS BOE monitors the performance and independence of the Groups external auditor, the provision of additional services to the Group by the auditor t SFWJFX PG UIF SPVQ T 5 TZTUFNT VQHSBEF QPMJDZ BOE JNQMFNFOUBUJPO and oversees the Groups relationship with them.
Committee meetings generally take place prior to but on the same day The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year as Board meetings and the Committee Chairman provides the Board have been assessed by determining the key risks of misstatement of the with a report on the activity of the Committee and the matters of Groups financial statements relating to: particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
t UIF DBSSZJOH WBMVF PG UIF SPVQ T MBOE BOE XPSL JO QSPHSFTT JODMVEJOH External audit an assessment of related impairment provisions: KPMG Audit Plc is the Groups external auditor and they produce a t UIF DBSSZJOH WBMVF PG UIF SPVQ T BWBJMBCMF GPS TBMF GJOBODJBM BTTFUT detailed audit plan identifying their assessment of key risks each year.
For the 2013 financial year the primary risks identified were in relation The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal controls to release of net realisable value provisions and shared equity receivable exercised over the key processes employed by the Group in the impairment, due to the inherent management judgement required in acquisition of new land and the investment in site development these areas.
The Committee receives regular reporting as to Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 41 The Committee formulates and oversees the Companys policy on Internal control and risk management monitoring external auditor objectivity and independence in relation Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our to non-audit services.
The auditor is excluded from undertaking a objectives and the long term sustainable growth of our business.
range of work on behalf of the Group to ensure that the nature of The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of non-audit services performed or fee income earned relative to the internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of audit fees does not compromise and is not seen to compromise the management to implement the Boards policies on risk control through auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditor is therefore the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
not allowed to carry out appraisal or valuation services, management All employees have some responsibility for internal control as part of functions and litigation support, actuarial services, legal, accounting their responsibility for achieving objectives.
or remuneration services on behalf of the Group.
From time to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the Boards The ratio of audit fees to non audit fees paid to the auditor in 2013 was responsibilities with regard to risk and internal control.
Specifically this 101 to 1. includes determining appropriate control procedures and the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the performance of KPMG Audit Plc.
Details of the audit fee and fees paid to KPMG Audit The members of the Risk Committee are Jeff Fairburn Chairman, Plc for non-audit services are on page 78.
Mike Killoran, Nigel Greenaway and Dave Jenkinson.
Mike Farley was a member of the Risk Committee until his retirement in April The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit 2013.
David Thornton was a member of the Committee until February process annually with the auditor and the Companys management.
2013 when his revised role as Group Development Director no longer The Committee holds private meetings with the auditor following required his attendance at Committee meetings.
The Risk Committee is each Committee meeting.
Matters discussed include the auditors supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee reports to assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the the Audit Committee which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
transparency and openness of interactions with management and confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk by management.
The Committee ensure that the auditor has exercised management systems in relation to the financial reporting process its professional scepticism.
and in relation to the process of preparing consolidated accounts.
The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal The auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the control, having continued to operate procedures necessary to Group audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner has now implement the guidance issued by The Turnbull Committee Report been in place for two years.
revised October 2005 throughout the year.
The Committee has noted the changes to the Code introduced by Senior management from the Finance Department monitor the Groups the FRC in September 2012 and in particular, the new requirement financial management and reporting systems and continually assess contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups accounting procedures.
audit contract out to tender in the future at least every 10 years.
Senior management from the Finance and Company Secretarial The FRC has suggested possible transitional arrangements, under Departments review financial reports, interim management statements which an external audit tender process would fit the cycle of audit and trading updates with appropriate consultation with the Groups partner rotation.
auditor, ensuring that such reports and statements are accurate, The audit was last tendered in 1994 and since then lead audit complete and comply with all relevant legislation and regulations.
partners have been appointed in accordance with KPMG Audit Plcs Each operating business and Group function is required to report to own guidance on independence, most recently for the year ended the Group to ensure that all financial reporting is accurate and that 31 December 2012.
Having previously conducted a full tender exercise all matters which may be material to the Group as a whole have been and considered auditor performance in each subsequent year, the reported to the Board.
Senior management reports its findings to the Committee will continue to give consideration to the timing of the next Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
formal tender in light of the Code requirement and any further changes The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to the Group in the regulatory framework.
In any event, the Committee anticipates Risk Register during the year to reflect the changing risk profile facing that this will be not later than the date of rotation of the current lead the Group.
The results of this process have been reported to the Risk audit partner.
Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused programme of At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether work designed to improve business processes and increase internal the 2013 Annual Report taken as a whole was fair, balanced and control effectiveness.
The updated Group Risk Register has been understandable and whether it provided the necessary information for approved by both Risk and Audit Committees.
The principal risks shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and faced by the Group set out on page 29 have not changed, although their strategy.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the relevant scale of importance has changed.
Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 42 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued The Risk Committee met six times during 2013 ensuring there has been Directors Report an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks that are faced by the Group.
The key features Other disclosures of reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control include Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of the the following: Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a public company t SFWJFX PG SFQPSUT QSPEVDFE CZ UIF SPVQ 3JTL %FQBSUNFOU PO listed in the UK and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
internal control and management of risk: The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes Limited t SFWJFXJOH UIF SFQPSUT GSPN UIF $PSQPSBUF 3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ $PNNJUUFF and Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Group trades under a sub-committee of the Risk Committee with particular reference the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury to reputational, environmental, sustainability and social risks facing Partnerships, Hillreed Homes and Space4.
the Group: The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the profits and t SFWJFX PG SFQSFTFOUBUJPOT PO SJTL BOE DPOUSPM GSPN BMM NBOBHJOH assets of the Group are listed in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their operating businesses: Strategic Report t SFWJFX PG SFQSFTFOUBUJPOT PO SJTL BOE DPOUSPM GSPN CPUI SPVQ BOE The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 33 is the management report for the Divisional management: purposes of DTR 4.1.
R. A description of the Groups future prospects, research and development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing t BTTFTTNFOU PG UIF TFDVSJUZ BSPVOE 5 JOGSBTUSVDUVSF BOE DVTUPNFS the business and details of the Groups use of financial instruments information: and are contained within the Strategic Report.
Details of the financial risk t NPOJUPSJOH PG XIJTUMFCMPXJOH SFQPSUT PS PUIFS TJHOJGJDBOU DPOUSPM management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk issues or incidents.
exposure are given in note 22 of the Financial Statements.
Members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks which Results and return of cash are essential parts of the Groups risk control framework: The Groups revenue for 2013 was 2,085.9m and its consolidated profit t NBJOUBJOJOH DPOUJOVPVT EFUBJMFE JOWPMWFNFOU JO NPOJUPSJOH before taxation was 337.1m.
and controlling work in progress and controls over land acquisition assessment: The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by Directors subject to statute.
t SFHVMBS TJUF WJTJUT BOE EJTDVTTJPOT XJUI TJUF CBTFE QFSTPOOFM The Directors may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate dividend t POHPJOH SFWJFX PG SPVQ QFSGPSNBODF JO DPNQBSJTPO UP PQFSBUJPOBM whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the forecasts and financial budgets: and Directors, justifies its payment.
t JOWPMWFNFOU JO FBDI PQFSBUJOH CVTJOFTT T CPBSE EJTDVTTJPOT All dividend and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the particularly operational board meetings where all aspects of Company to those members whose names are on the register of operation and performance were analysed.
members on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent transfer or transmission of shares.
On completion of these processes the Audit Committee formally considers the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system In accordance with the previously announced Capital Return Plan it is of internal control.
This review covers all material controls including proposed to pay a cash return of 70p per ordinary share on 4 July 2014 financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as the Groups to shareholders on the register at 6 pm on 4 June 2014.
The total return risk management system.
The review for 2013 has been completed and for the year will be 70p per share 2013: return of cash of 75p per share.
approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
A detailed Group Risk Department programme of work for 2014 has also been approved Going concern by the Risk and Audit Committees.
After completing a full review, the Directors have a reasonable The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
However, operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to the system can only provide reasonable assurances and does not provide adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Further details are provided in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 43 then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Company may by significant shareholdings special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term As at 31 December 2013 and as at the date of this report, the Company of office.
had been notified under the Financial Service Authoritys Disclosure In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1 the Board has determined and Transparency Rule 5 of the following interests in the voting rights that all Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association Articles provide that at each As at As at AGM at least one-third of the Directors shall retire from office and shall 31 December 2013 24 February 2014 be eligible for reappointment.
In any event, each Director shall retire % of % of from office and shall be eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in total total the third year following his last reappointment.
In accordance with the Number of voting Number of voting Nature of Name voting rights rights voting rights rights holding Articles and the Code, a Non-Executive Director who has been in office for more than nine years consecutively shall retire at each AGM and Allianz SE 18,098,600 6.03 18,098,600 6.03 Direct & shall be eligible for reappointment.
Indirect JP Morgan 14,848,792 4.88 16,015,380 5.26 Direct & Powers of the Directors Asset Indirect Management The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors Holdings who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company AXA S. A.
In particular the Directors may exercise all the Indirect powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back shares Templeton 14,827,805 4.94 14,827,805 4.94 Indirect with the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove Directors and ForeignFund recommend and declare dividends.
Ameriprise 14,425,115 4.74 14,425,115 4.74 Direct & Financial Inc Indirect Capital structure & Subsidiaries The following description summarises certain provisions of the Aberdeen 14,166,097 4.70 14,166,097 4.70 Indirect Articles adopted by special resolution passed on 18 April 2013 and Asset the Companies Act 2006.
This is only a summary and the relevant Management subsidiaries provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
A copy of the Articles may be obtained by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Directors and Directors interests registered office.
The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made by way of are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Mike Farley and Neil Davidson served special resolution in accordance with the provisions of the Companies as Group Chief Executive and Non-Executive Director respectively Act 2006. until they retired on 18 April 2013.
None of the Directors have any contracts of significance with the Company, with the exception of Nigel Share capital Greenaway, who has agreed to purchase two homes from the Group conditional on shareholder approval under sections 191 192 Companies The Company has one class of share in issue, being ordinary shares Act 2006 at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 16 April 2014. with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to fixed Further information is contained in the AGM Circular.
During 2013, 1,775,112 ordinary shares were issued with Executive Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration a nominal value of 177,511 to employees exercising share options Report on page 50. for cash consideration of 2,563,901.
At 24 February 2014 the issued share capital of the Company was 304,710,772 ordinary shares with a The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and their nominal value of 30.5m.
Further details are provided in note 24 to the connected persons in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2013 Financial Statements.
and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 57.
Details of the interests of the Executive Directors In accordance with the resolution to return 75p of capital to in share options and awards of shares can be found on pages 56 to 57 shareholders passed at the AGM on 18 April 2013 the Company issued within the same report.
The B shares were redeemed in their entirety on 28 June 2013 and immediately Appointment and replacement of Directors cancelled.
The C share dividend was paid and the C shares reclassified as Deferred shares and purchased by the Company for a nominal sum The Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in of one penny.
The C shares were subsequently cancelled on 18 July 2013. number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary As a result the Company no longer has any B C shares in issue.
resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board of Directors holds office until the next following AGM and is Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 44 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights or Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, or voting pension scheme indemnity provisions or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity resolution determine or failing such determination as the Directors provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying special rights Change of control provisions with regard to control of the Company.
One significant agreement contains provisions entitling counterparties The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of shares in the Company to such persons including the Directors of the Company.
themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and Under the 300m credit facility dated 1 April 2011 disclosed in note 22 shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 18 April 2013 shareholders gave of the Financial Statements, all amounts become due and payable under Directors authority to issue up to one-third of the issued share capital of the terms of the facility if any person or group of persons acting in the Company being an aggregate nominal amount of 10,097,433 and concert gains control of the Company.
to disapply pre-emption rights on the issues of shares up to 5% of the Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the Corporation Tax issued share capital, being an aggregate nominal amount of 1,514,615.
Act 2010 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the City These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 April Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is deemed to occur 2014.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put to shareholders if at any time any person, or group of persons acting in concert, acquires at the forthcoming AGM.
Votes of members The Company does not have agreements with any employee including Directors that would provide compensation for loss of office or All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there are currently employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised in person, by Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a corporate representative.
to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Details of The deadline for delivering either written or electronic proxy forms is compensation payable to Directors if their employment is terminated in not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
To attend breach of contract are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 50. and vote at a meeting a shareholder must be entered on the register of members at a time that is not more than 48 hours before the time of the Emissions meeting calculated using business days only.
The Groups greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the Strategic Report On a vote on a show of hands, each member being an individual present on page 32. in person or a duly authorised representative of a corporation has one vote.
Each proxy present in person who has been appointed by one Employee involvement member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one member and has been given the same The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its voting instructions by those members, the proxy has one vote.
If the employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters proxy has been appointed by more than one member and has been affecting them as employees and on various financial and economic given conflicting instructions, or instructions to vote for or against one factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group regularly member and discretion by another, the proxy has one vote for and one updates its employment policies and employees have been issued with vote against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, each member present in a staff handbook to keep them up to date with information relating person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative has one vote for to their employment.
Each of the Groups operating businesses each share held by the member.
maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate.
Internal Group magazines are published quarterly and distributed Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 31 of the Financial to all employees to ensure they are kept well informed of the Groups Statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employment Benefit Trust operations.
In addition, information concerning the financial may vote or abstain on shareholder resolutions as it sees fit.
performance of the Group is sent to each operating business for circulation.
Further information can be found in our Sustainability Transfer of shares Report at www.
There are no restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company.
The Company makes various benefit schemes available to employees, Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any usual or including a savings related share option scheme which encourages the common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors and awareness and involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Authority.
All permanent employees are encouraged to participate, subject to The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that having six months service at the date of grant of option.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 45 Equal opportunities Directors responsibility The Group policy is to have equal opportunities for training, career The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and development and promotion for all employees without discrimination Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and apply fair and equitable policies which seek to promote entry into The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely whole is fair balanced and understandable and provides the information by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency regardless necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, gender, business model and strategy.
Further details are provided on page 61. sexual orientation, political beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, By Order of the Board age, pregnancy or maternity or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, with appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure Neil Francis that their employment with the Group continues, that appropriate Group Company Secretary training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments are made to their 24 February 2014 working environment.
It is the Groups policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as Persimmon Plc possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Company Registration Number 1818486 Acquisition of own shares At the AGM held on 18 April 2013 shareholders granted the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,292,300 of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under this authority and therefore at 31 December 2013 the authority remained outstanding.
This authority expires on 16 April 2014 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
At 31 December 2013 the Company held no shares in Treasury.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Wednesday 16 April 2014 at York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
The Notice of Meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business are given in the AGM Circular.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc has instigated an orderly wind down of its business.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning their appointment will be made at the Companys AGM on 16 April 2014.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirmed that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
