Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 36 Robust leadership Board of Directors Nicholas Wrigley Jeff Fairburn Chairman age 58 Group Chief Executive age 47 Date of appointment Date of appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 February 1 June 2009 2006 and as Chairman ofthe Board Committee membership on21April2011 Member of the Risk Committee.
Committee membership Experience Chairman of the Nomination In April 2013, Jeff Fairburn became Group Committee and member of the Chief Executive.
He joined the Group in Remuneration Committee.
1989 and became North East Managing Experience Director in 2002.
He was promoted to Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive North Division Chief Executive in 2006 ViceChairman of Rothschild London.
and subsequently to Group Managing Hehasover 30years mergers and Director in 2012. acquisitions experience atRothschild andisa qualified accountant.
Richard Pennycook Jonathan Davie Senior Independent Director age 49 Non-Executive Director age 67 Date of appointment Date of appointment 14 March 2008 1 January 2010 Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Chairman of the Remuneration member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee and a member oftheAudit andNomination Committees.
Experience A Chartered Accountant and graduate Experience ofBristol University, Richard is Chief Jonathan Davie is a non-executive Financial Officer of The Co-Operative Chairman of IG Group Holdings Group and Non-Executive Chairman of Plc andFirst Avenue LLP and he is a The Hut Group.
Previous roles include non-Executive Director of Hansa Trust Group Finance Director of WmMorrison Plc.
Mr Davies previous roles include Supermarkets Plc and RACPlc, Finance Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of Director of JDWetherspoonPlc, BZW Global Equities and non-Executive CEO ofWelcome Break HoldingsPlc Director of Credit Suisse UKPrivate Bank.
and non-Executive Director of Richer SoundsPlc.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 37 Mike Killoran ACA Nigel Greenaway David Jenkinson Group Finance Director age 52 South Division Chief Executive age 53 North Division Chief Executive age 46 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 4 January 1999 8 January 2013 13 December 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Risk Committee.
Member of the Risk Committee.
Experience Experience Experience Mike Killoran joined the Company in1996.
Nigel Greenaway joined the Group in1986.
Dave Jenkinson joined the Group in 1997.
A chartered accountant byprofession, Mike He was appointed Managing Director of He was appointed Managing Director of worked in manufacturing, distribution the South Midlands operating business in the North East operating business in 2005 and retail sectors before joining the Group.
2001 and was promoted to Birmingham and was promoted to Regional Managing Hetookover his present role in April1999.
He was appointed to Western Regional Chairman in 2005 before his current role as North Division Chief beingappointed to his current role of South Executive in January 2013.
Division Chief Executive inthatsame year.
Mark Preston Marion Sears Non-Executive Director 46 Non-Executive Director age 51 Date of appointment Date of appointment 9 January 2012 8 January 2013 Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Audit and Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Committees.
Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Experience Mark Preston, a chartered surveyor, is Experience the Group Chief Executive of Grosvenor Marion Sears is the Senior Independent Group Limited, an appointment he took Director of Dunelm Group Plc.
Heisa non-Executive Director She isalso a non-Executive Director of of Sonae Sierra SGPS.
He is also a board investment trusts Octopus AIM VCT member of The Association of Foreign Plc and Fidelity European Values Plc.
Investors in Real Estate, a Member of Marion was previously Senior Independent the University of Cambridge Land non-Executive Director of Zetar Plc Economy Advisory Board, a Member of the andheld executive positions at Glaxo, UBS, Greenprint Advisory Board and a Trustee Baring Brothers andJPMorgan.
