s u d o n i a c y s t n i l o a c u t Q s o c e v i s n E t o h p i c s e a l R Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Leadership What should our Board be doing?
Board achievements during 2013 While the Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for formal decision, a copy of which is available on our website, we recognise that there are a number of key topics for which all boards should take responsibility.
This year, we set out opposite how we believe, either directly or through our Committees, we have concentrated on these topics with due regard to our key values.
Focus of 2013 increased focus on health, safety and security matters approval of deepwater EPCI strategy, including approval of vessel investment approval and successful launch of inaugural bond issue refreshed Committee structures Objectives priorities for 2014 renewed focus on succession planning delivery of deepwater EPCI strategy increased review and monitoring of key risks across the Group and risk The Board is guided by assurance oversight the Companys values and crisis management while not exhaustive, we describe some of our key IT oversight highlights for 2013 and how they demonstrate the Board livingour values: 70 I r n e n n v i e o l v v e i a d r t D i o v t e e f a S Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Safe Driven to deliver Responsive Whilst the Board has responsibility for Petrofac has a relentless focus on delivery, We seek to understand our customers so that reviewing our Health, Safety, Security, with the aim of meeting and exceeding our we can develop our strategy in response to Environment, Integrity and Assurance customers expectations.
Some of the their evolving needs.
HSSEIA policy, this didnot change in 2013 transactions which have been previously The Board spent 36% of its meeting time having been reviewed in detail in 2012. approved and announced during the year are: considering strategic matters during the year.
The Board was, however, actively engaged Delivering the Petrofac JSD6000 vessel on the award of a US$3.7 billion contract in April in living the first of our values: budget and on schedule will be a prime focus by Zakum Development Company ZADCO going forward and evidence of the Board it received regular updates from our the entry, in June, of Petrofac Emirates into delivering its strategy in response to an Group Director of HSSEIA on safety, two EPC contracts for the development of identied customer demand.
covering general trends as well as specic projects in Abu Dhabi at US$187 million and incidents including fatalities and high The Groups shape continues to change and US$500 million respectively potential incidents ensuring we have the right funding in place is a the increase of the Companys economic further example of the Board responding to the it approved the HSSEIA plan for 2013 interest in Petrofac Emirates to 75% businesss changing needs.
Our successful it monitored the evacuation of employees the award of a US$95 million contract on inaugural bond issue, was a direct response from the In Salah Southern elds development tothis challenge.
theBadra oil eld in Iraq in Algeria the entry into a partnership with Bonatti the Board Risk Committee received detailed in October to execute an EPC contract reports and presentations on integrity for Sonatrach to extend the life of the assurance and process safety Alrar gas eld in Algeria, valued at around US$650 million the award of a US$2.1 billion EPC contract jointly with Daelim Industrial Co Ltd located inthe Sohar Industrial Area, Oman Quality and cost conscious Innovative Ethical We take pride in what we do.
We want to It is in our nature to think differently, to As a Company, we aspire to the highest do it well and cost effectively so that we are proactively challenge convention and seek standards of ethical behaviour.
Our updated differentiated from our competitors.
The out new ways to add value.
Code of Conduct, which is founded on our Board monitors the Groups performance core values and governs how we work, was Our innovative philosophy has driven our plans in the following ways: rolled out across the Group during the year.
to develop our deepwater EPCI strategy, which The aim of this document, which is available Ayman Asfari provides the Board with is allowing us to build a differentiated top tier onour website, is to set out our expectations a detailed report which focuses on our offshore business.
The Board gave its approval of everyone who works for and with Petrofac operational delivery, allowing the Board to develop our EPCI strategy at the start of the and to help us ensure we continue to do the to monitor and measure progress, at year and provided further approval for the right thing for our employees, customers, every meeting investment in the specialist vessel towardsthe suppliers, communities, and the environment the Board regularly monitors the Groups end of the year.
financial performance and approves all scheduled releases to the market As a Board, we have continued to focus on ethical matters through the introduction and our risk governance framework seeks to roll out of our diversity and inclusion policy safeguard execution excellence with due across the Group and the implementation of a regard for cost Social Impacts Standard.
our Fit for 2015 programme has been driven by a desire to deliver better for less in everything we do 71 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued All our Directors are required to disclose to our In addition, I set aside time during some Board Who is on our Board?
Board any potential conict for consideration meetings to see the Non-executive Directors Kathleen Hogenson was appointed in August and I am not aware of any relationship or separately.
Each of these meetings provides 2013 and Maroun Semaan retired at the end circumstance which is likely to prejudice, or insight which assists me in two ways: I am of December 2013.
Andy Inglis will leave the could appear to prejudice, the judgement of better able to set the agenda for our Board Company and step down from the Board on any Director.
meetings and I can ensure that all Directors 28 February 2014.
Accordingly, at the date contribute at our meetings through their of this report, we have 11 Directors on the We have made considerable efforts to build a individual and collective experience, challenge Board comprising myself as Chairman, six board with the right balance of skills, diversity and support.
Non-executive Directors and four Executive and industry expertise.
You will see that our Directors as set out in the table below: Directors are drawn from across the world The Board is assisted by four committees and have varied career histories, with no as set out in the diagram opposite.
Name Position Nationality single type of person dominating the Board.
Each committee is responsible for Norman We are fortunate in that many of our Directors reviewing and overseeing activities within Chairman Murray bring a great deal of experience in the oil and its particular terms of reference, copies gas industry, both in lump-sum contracting of which are available on the Companys Rijnhard Senior Independent and subsurface exploration and production.
At each van Tets Director We believe this is essential to safeguard scheduled Board meeting, the chairman Thomas Thune Non-executive the long-term interests of our shareholders.
of each committee provides a summary Andersen Director The additional strengths brought to the Board of any committee meeting held since the by each Director are detailed further on pages previous Board meeting and, the minutes of Non-executive Stefano Cao 68 and 69. all committee meetings are circulated to the Director Board.
Individual reports from each committee Non-executive How is the Board structured?
chairman for 2013 are provided on pages 80 Roxanne Decyk Director to 113.
As a Jersey incorporated company, our Board is unitary in nature.
This means that all our Kathleen Non-executive In addition to the four Board committees, 1 Hogenson Director Directors share equal responsibility for there are a number of executive management decisions taken.
Executive and Non-executive committees, involved in the day-to-day Non-executive Directors need to be able to work together in Ren Mdori Director operational management of Petrofac, which an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual have been established to consider various respect.
It is therefore important that all Group Chief 2 issues and matters for recommendation to the Ayman Asfari Directors see the Chairman as a fair and Executive Board and its committees as set out in the impartial individual.
My relationships with the diagram opposite.
Chief Executive, Group Chief Executive and the Senior Marwan Chedid ECOM Independent Director are of particular importance, as these two individuals Chief Executive, 3 Andy Inglis represent the views of management and IES Non-executive Directors, respectively.
I believe Chief Financial that an effective working relationship between Tim Weller officer each of our Directors provides a robust framework, which is essential for the 1 Ms Hogenson was appointed on 1 August 2013. progression of the Companys strategic aims.
2 Mr Asfari is a British citizen: however he is Syrian born and I hold regular private meetings with Ayman has dual nationality.
and we will often discuss matters before and 3 Mr Inglis will leave the Company and step down from the after they are considered at Board meetings Board on 28 February 2014. in order that we can reach a mutual Full biographies of each of our Directors in understanding of each others views, ofce at year end are shown on pages 68 and especially in matters where we may not initially 69.
Those biographies for Directors standing be in agreement.
I also hold private meetings for election or re-election are also included in and maintain regular contact with Rijnhard the Notice of Meeting.
All our Non-executive between our scheduled Board meetings Directors are independent in judgement and and believe that I am equally informed character.
Each was appointed through an about the views of both management and impartial recruitment process and none has Non-executive Directors.
any other connection with the Company.
72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate structure framework Board level committees Responsible for decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Takes primary responsibility Agrees remuneration policy and for succession planning, sets individual compensation Board Director selection levels for members of andBoard composition senior management Committee report: Committee report: pages 80 to 81 pages 92 to 113 Elect the Directors Shareholders Board Ongoing dialogue engagement Elect the external auditors Board Risk Audit Committee Committee Oversees the Groups risk Monitors the integrity of the management andinternal Companys financial statements control processes for nonand reviews financial and financial matters regulatory compliance and controls Committee report: Committee report: pages 86 to 91 pages 82 to 85 Day-to-day operational management of the Group Management Level Committees Responsible for the communication and implementation of decisions, administrative matters and matters for recommendation to the Board and its Committees Executive Chief Executive Disclosure Group Risk Treasury Guarantee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 73 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued As at the date of this report: Our Secretary to the Board, Mary Hitchon, How is our Board organised?
is responsible to the Board.
One of her key As recommended by the UK Code, Board tenure roles is to advise me on governance matters Ayman and I have clearly dened areas so that I can enhance the governance and of responsibility and these are set out in effectiveness of the Board, the Committees writing.
As Chairman, I see my role as Less than one year 1 Five years or more 2 and our individual Directors, which she does one which ensures that the Board both with an understanding of the business, challenges and supports management.
I am 1-2 years 2 professionalism, and integrity.
also responsible for leading the Board and 3-4 years 2 ensuring its effectiveness.
Ayman Asfari as our The responsibilities for the roles of the Group 2-3 years 4 Group Chief Executive is responsible for the Chief Executive, Chairman, and that of the implementation and execution of strategy and Senior Independent Director and Secretary the day-to-day management of the Group.
tothe Board are shown in the table below: Executive and Non-executive He is supported by his senior management Director balance team whose details are outlined on pages 6 and 7.
Rijnhard van Tets is our Senior Non-executive Chairman 1 Independent Director, a position he assumed Executive Directors 4 in May 2011.
He is available to shareholders to answer any questions which cannot be Non-executive addressed by me or Ayman.
Directors 6 Nationality of Board members Middle East 1 UK 4 Chairman Group Chief Executive Lead the Board.
US 2 Ensure effective communication Develop manageable goals and priorities.
Continental Lead and motivate the management teams.
Europe 4 Ensure effective communication ows Develop proposals to present to the Board between Directors.
on all areas reserved for its judgement.
Facilitate the effective contribution of Develop Group policies for approval by the Gender split of Board members all Directors.
Female 2 Male 9 Effective division of responsibilities Senior Independent Director Secretary to the Board Acts as a sounding board and condante to Acts as Secretary to all Board committees.
Assists in and coordinates the Board Acts as intermediary for other evaluation process.
Ensures the Board is kept informed and Available to shareholders to answer is consulted on all matters reserved to it questions which cannot be addressed by and that papers and other information are Chairman or Group Chief Executive.
Will chair the Board if Chairman is Ensures the Board is kept informed on unavailable and will chair the Nominations governance matters, providing advice Committee when considering succession to through the Chairman.
the role of Chairman of the Board.
Available to individual Directors in respect Will meet with other Directors to appraise the of Board procedures and provides general Chairmans performance, and on such other support and advice.
74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Who attends Board meetings?
How often does our Board meet?
Where does our Board meet?
As well as Directors and the Secretary to the The Board meets face-to-face at least Petrofac Limited was incorporated in Jersey Board, on occasion, guests from operational six times a year at scheduled meetings.
under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and functional management are invited to In addition, the Board meets on an ad hoc and although we hold our Board meetings attend Board meetings.
During 2013, updates telephonic basis, when items of business at a variety of locations, most are held in were provided from operational management, arise which cannot be held over until the next Jersey.
Every year one of our six scheduled one and two tiers below director level, as planned meeting.
Scheduled meetings are meetings is held in Sharjah, UAE, being the well as from the functional heads of HSSEIA, generally held over a two-day period, though location of our largest ofce and the centre HR, IT, Risk, Security, Compliance, Group at least two of these meetings are longer as of our Onshore Engineering & Construction Tax, External Affairs and Strategy.
We believe during our annual programme of events we business.
While in Sharjah in 2013, the Board this interaction helps Directors gain a deeper also hold dedicated strategy days as well as a took the opportunity to meet with and speak understanding of the Company and allows site visit.
Committee meetings are held prior to to a group of graduates as well as around them to get to know its senior management: Board meetings.
50 members of our local management thus enhancing their understanding of the team.
Every year we also hold one meeting business and the implementation of strategy in a location where Petrofac has significant and making for more effective and lively Board business.
In October 2013, we visited meetings.
We also consider that giving senior Singapore and Malaysia.
Further details of management the opportunity to present to this visit can be found below.
Meetings held the Board and meet the Directors informally is outside of Jersey allow the Board to gain a invaluable for their personal development.
better understanding of Petrofac, its people, its customers, its suppliers and partners.
Details of Director attendance during the year and eligibility to attend are set out in the below: Total number of meetings held during the year to 31 December 2013 Ad-hoc telephonic Board meetings attended.
Meetings usually held at short notice and Physical Board attendance takes place Strategy days meetings attended outside of UK attended Norman Murray In October, the Board held its Board and Committee meetings in Singapore at the Rijnhard van Tets Training Centre on Jurong Island.
During the visit, Directors toured the facility, received a Thomas Thune Andersen presentation from local management on our IES and ECOM businesses in Singapore and Stefano Cao South-east Asia and had the opportunity to meet with a cross-section of employees, Roxanne Decyk thereby giving the Board the opportunity to see each part of the business and help Kathleen Hogenson them to understand some of the challenges being faced.
Ren Mdori The meetings were followed by a trip to Ayman Asfari the Pasir Gudang shipyard in Malaysia.
Hosted by our contractor, Malaysia Marine Maroun Semaan and Heavy Engineering MMHE, the Board was able to see the oating production Marwan Chedid storage and ofoading FPSO vessel which is currently being refurbished prior Andy Inglis to deployment on our Cendor Phase 2 project.
Over the course of this threeTim Weller day trip, as well as providing exposure to employees and suppliers, the visit also 1 Chairman.
gave Directors the opportunity to meet 2 Kathleen Hogenson was appointed on 1 August 2013. with the senior management of our client, Attended Not eligible to attend PETRONAS, thus gaining an insight into any customer concerns.
75 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Our selection process Effectiveness The Nominations Committee is responsible How do we get the best out of for the recommendation of Directors to our our Board?
Board and there is a formal, rigorous and We invest time and effort in appointing our transparent selection procedure for the Directors and arranging Board meetings to appointment of new Directors.
Board size and ensure we get the best out of our Directors composition are considered very carefully individually and the Board as a whole.
I believe to ensure the right balance of individuals, that the Board must operate in an atmosphere taking into account experience and diversity.
of mutual trust and respect in order to be In addition, our Directors are made aware effective and I therefore encourage Directors of the need to allocate sufficient time to the Our induction programme to be open and forthright in order to stimulate Company to discharge their responsibilities Kathleen Hogenson joined the Board in active debate within each meeting.
Care is taken to establish the August 2013 and an individually tailored for scrutiny and constructive challenge, existing commitments of all Non-executive induction programme was provided.
As chief before any Board decisions are taken.
As well Directors, particularly the Chairman.
Should a executive of her own company with 30 years as encouraging the right culture within the Directors external commitments change after experience in the oil and gas industry, the boardroom, Directors must be practically appointment, they are required to make me focus for Kathleens induction has been to supported to enable them to engage fully with and the Board aware as soon as practicable increase her knowledge of Petrofac and the the Company and allow them to make their so that we can consider any potential conict UK-listed company environment, as well best possible contribution.
I outline below of interest, time commitment challenge as prepare her for her role as a member some of the practical measures we take: or residency status issue.
A report on the of the Audit, Board Risk and Nominations activities of the Nominations Committee is set Committees, full details are set out below: Information provided out on page 80.
We adopt a tailored approach to developing Identied strengths our Board agendas.
Some items are brought Entrepreneurial experience.
Director development and training to the Board on the basis of a 6 or 12-month While we do not run an extensive programme Background in petroleum and rolling programme, such as strategy, the of one-size-ts all training, I encourage all reservoir engineering.
forthcoming years budget or HSSEIA plan, Directors to pursue an individually tailored Good subsurface experience and while others, such as the reports from the development programme throughout the probabilistic assessment.
Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial year, comprising a mixture of formal seminars officer are standing items.
Generally though, led by external advisors: ofce and site the majority of the agenda is comprised Focus areas visits: as well as governance and health and of non-recurring items, such as strategic To increase Kathleens knowledge safety training.
A training workshop was matters or project specic and investment of Petrofac, especially relating to our provided to the Board on process safety and related opportunities.
We believe this allows ECOM business and in particular, asset integrity, while members of the Audit our Directors to engage more effectively EPC contracting.
Committee also attended individual sessions and encourages constructive debate during with our auditors in relation to the new To increase her understanding of the each meeting.
governance requirements impacting overall UK-listed company environment and reporting.
We maintain a training record for to provide any specic assistance in As recommended by the UK Code and as each Director and this is reviewed during the part of our commitment to best practice, preparing for her role as a member of the evaluation process.
Over the course of this Board committees.
we ensure papers are dispatched in a timely year, approximately 170 hours of training were manner, usually one week prior to each recorded by the Board.
Papers are provided electronically Induction programme through a dedicated secure application, As for all new appointments, Kathleen What is our approach giving Directors instant access to papers attended our compulsory presentation to shareholders as well as to a useful resource bank of led by Freshelds on the role and re-appointing Directors?
When telephonic responsibilities of a UK-listed director.
In line with the UK Code, all Directors will Board meetings are held, the Secretary to In addition, coordinating around seek appointment and re-appointment by the Board ensures that papers are circulated scheduled Board meetings, arrangements shareholders at the 2014 Annual General electronically, generally at least 24 hours prior were made for Kathleen to visit our ofces Meeting AGM.
As also required, the terms to the meeting.
in London, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, and conditions of appointment of all Directors as well as attending the site visit in are available for inspection by any person Malaysia, with the full Board.
These visits at our registered ofce in Jersey and at our gave her the opportunity to meet senior corporate services ofce in London.
They are operational management, key functional also made available for inspection during heads of the Group and new graduates.
the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM each year.
A tailored visit to Kuwait is scheduled for April 2014.
76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Rijnhard van Tets conducted his own appraisal At the end of the year we engaged the Evaluation of Board effectiveness of me, following a series of interviews with our services of Sheena Crane Limited to conduct The UK Code requires me to conduct Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Ms Crane an annual evaluation of the Board, our observed Committee and Board meetings in Committees and individual Directors to Following this evaluation process I can confirm November and has subsequently undertaken establish whether or not the Board is working that the performance of each Director was one-to-one interviews with each Director.
At the start of the year I conducted effective during the year and can conclude one-to-one interviews with each Director that the control and leadership required for a In February 2014, Ms Crane provided using a set of pre-dened questions, aiming listed company is provided by the Board as feedback to me and to the Board as a whole, to address the activities of the Board and the a whole.
Each interview resulted in open currently in the process of prioritising the conversations and discussions.
proposed recommendations and will provide afull account next year.
Issues identied in 2013 and how they are being addressed is shown below: Agreed action and areas of suggested Outputs from evaluation improvement How do we deal with potential Succession Planning Over the last two years, considerable time has been conicts of interest?
spent on the practicable application of succession planning, both at Board and at senior management As far as is possible, the other Directors level.
This work continues primarily within the and I endeavour to avoid conicts of interest Nominations Committee remit, to establish effective with the Company.
However, potential succession plans and to ascertain those individuals conicts can occasionally arise during a who are ready for a new role now and those who term of appointment and accordingly, we require further development and training.
have processes and procedures in place Greater financial detail requested to permit Expanding the financial information presented in the that require Directors to identify and declare better consideration of the Groups capital five-year plans to include downside scenarios and, any actual or potential conicts of interest, demands, future nancing plans, and financial including sensitivities on future cash ows within whether matter-specic or situational.
structures regular reports to provide greater insight and allow Such notications are required to be made the Board to focus on financial planning in a more focused and concentrated way.
by the Director concerned prior to, or at, a Board meeting and all Directors have a duty Crisis management The development of crisis management planning to update the whole Board of any changes and the Boards role in such plans is seen as extremely important.
As a result of the crisis in in circumstances.
In accordance with the Algeria in January 2013, which resulted in the Companys Articles of Association, the Board evacuation of our In Salah site, we feel better may authorise potential conicts which can be prepared for operational crises.
However, specic limited in scope.
During the year, all conict and targeted training initiatives are planned.
management procedures were adhered to Increase health and safety oversight Consideration to be given to increasing the HSE and operated effectively.
disclosures reported at each Board meeting and further, to provide more in-depth presentations and Do the Directors have deeds deep dive sessions on specic HSE matters on of indemnity?
the significant risks to the business.
In addition, the Group Director of HSSEIA now attends all Board All Directors and Ofcers of Petrofac Limited meetings.
As a result of the three fatalities which are provided with deeds of indemnity in occurred during 2013, Board focus on HSE matters respect of liabilities which may be incurred as remains high.
a result of their ofce, in accordance with our Overall risk oversight We have continued to develop metrics required to Articles of Association and to the maximum monitor our risk framework and the key areas of extent permitted by Jersey law.
In addition, risk which affect the business.
Membership of the Petrofac has appropriate insurance coverage Board Risk Committee has also been expanded in respect of legal action which may be to include all Non-executive Directors to brought against the Directors and its Ofcers.
A new risk management software package has also Neither the Companys indemnities nor been introduced which allows the tracking and insurance would provide any cover where a development of the Companys key risks and the Director or officer was found to have acted development of effective reporting metrics.
77 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance report continued How does our Board identify Does our Board receive Accountability Petrofacs significant risks?
information which allows it to How does our Board formally The Board Risk Committee receives a identify when delivery of its goals satisfy itself that it has sound Key Risk Report KRR which identies the are under threat?
risk management and internal principal risks facing the Company and As detailed on pages 8 to 51, Petrofac has control systems?
evaluates the likelihood of their incidence, a clear strategy and business plan with The Board is responsible for reviewing the and their impact to the Group if they were three growth priorities designed to increase effectiveness of Petrofacs risk management to materialise.
The Committee assesses shareholder value over the medium to and internal control systems, including the availability and likely effectiveness of the long term: i geographic expansion: ii IES financial, operational and compliance actions that are planned to manage and growth: and iii building the offshore EPCI controls.
The Board currently considers this mitigate these risks in order to avoid or reduce business.
In addition to which the five-year by reference to the work undertaken during the impact of the underlying risk.
business plans submitted to the Board which the year by both the Audit and Board Risk incorporate risk analysis as a matter of course In terms of process, risks which appear in the Committees.
In addition to which, the Board set financial targets for the Group.
KRR are identied, managed, and reported also receives regular reports from members at five primary levels within the Group, as The Group formally measures performance of management with responsibility for the set out in the diagram below.
At the lowest against these strategic goals quarterly and Groups material enterprise risks.
level Level 5 we identify operational risks.
each Business Unit reports operational To facilitate the year-end process, the Audit Relevant geographical, regional or portfolio progress monthly.
At each Board meeting, and Board Risk Committees held a joint exposures are introduced at Level 4.
Risks to Ayman provides a full update on business meeting in order to provide the Board with specic Business Service Lines appear at operations, during which any possible a formal report on the effectiveness of the Level 3.
Tactical risks are introduced at impediments to the delivery of our Group Groups financial and regulatory controls Divisional level and nally risks to the delivery goals are highlighted and discussed.
and the effectiveness of the Groups risk of our strategy are identied and reviewed at The Board also receives comprehensive management systems in relation to the Level 1 Group level.
The KRR consolidates reports from our Chief Financial officer.
Groups enterprise risks and project and these exposures which include all of the Key This ensures the Board is kept fully informed investment risks.
This report allows the Risks identied on pages 28 to 31. about the Groups financial performance for Board to take a view on whether or not the the year to date as compared with the years Group has sound risk management and budget or the latest revised forecast, with internal control systems in place.
The Board explanations for any variances, in addition to is satisfied that sound risk management and Group being kept abreast of all significant health, internal control systems have been in place safety and security matters.
We continue to across the Group throughout 2013 and as at develop a broader set of financial and nonDivision todays date when the financial statements financial key performance indicators, which were approved.
Petrofac also seeks to have should assist us in monitoring delivery of Business Service Line a sound system of internal control, based these goals.
on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint ventures.
As with Geographical region all companies, our systems of internal control and risk management are designed to mitigate Operations and manage rather than eliminate business individual projects and assets risk and can only ever provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material The process of identication is both top-down misstatement or loss.
and bottom-up so that management are able to review and challenge at each level, in addition to which, management at all levels of the hierarchy review and treat the risks for which they are organisationally responsible.
78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Ayman, Tim and the investor relations team, We place considerable importance on Remuneration headed by Jonathan Low, have a regular communication with our shareholders, How do we decide what Directors programme of meetings scheduled each year whether they are large institutional are paid?
and conduct a series of individual meetings shareholders or private shareholders, The Remuneration Committee is responsible with existing and potential shareholders many of whom are also employees of the for determining the remuneration and terms following our full and half year results and Group.
As with many organisations, we give of employment of Executive Directors as well interim management statements.
They also shareholders the option of receiving their as some members of senior management.
provide presentations to research analysts communications in soft copy electronic This Committee is also responsible for and institutional investors, including form, however we are keen to ensure all agreeing the Chairmans fees.
A detailed question and answer sessions, following the shareholders are kept informed of our report on the activities of the Remuneration announcement of our full and half year results.
activities and therefore, although over 13% Committee is provided on pages 92 to These presentations are broadcast live on of shareholders have opted to receive their 113.
Responsibility for determining the our website and accordingly may be followed documents electronically, we continue to issue remuneration payable to the Non-executive by all shareholders.
Directors also receive hard copies of our annual report and accounts Directors lies with the Board, and therefore the brokers research notes from Jonathan and to those who request them.
All shareholder Executive Directors and I effectively determine an update from our joint brokers at each documents, market announcements, together the fees payable to the Non-executive Board meeting.
with copies of presentations to analysts and Directors, albeit we take independent external interviews with Ayman are available on our During 2013, over 300 investor meetings were advice.
These fees are reviewed each year website www.
com, which we hope held by the Investor Relations team, of which and further details are provided on page 112. encourages shareholders to become more Ayman and or Tim attended approximately informed investors.
At the end of 2013 we held a Capital Relations with Markets Day in London, which provided an Our Annual General Meeting AGM Shareholders update on the Groups strategy and financial Full details of this years AGM, which will be prole.
All of our current Executive Directors, Who are our major shareholders?
held in London, are set out in the Notice of accompanied by the Managing Directors of Ordinarily, shareholders of Jersey incorporated Meeting which accompanies this report and each of our business units, were in attendance companies with a UK listing need only which is also available on our website.
As a to answer questions on our ECOM and IES disclose their holdings if they hold voting matter of good practice, we will conduct divisions and to outline the enhancement rights of 5% or more in a company.
However, all resolutions on a poll and announce the of our offshore EPC capability.
As a result, our Articles of Association have been drafted results to the market as soon as possible I believe that Ayman and Tim are each well so that any shareholder with 3% or more of after the meeting.
All shareholders are invited placed to provide the rest of the Board with our voting rights must disclose their holding, to attend the Companys AGM at which they their insights into shareholder sentiment.
bringing us in line with UK-incorporated have the opportunity to put questions to the companies.
Those shareholders with holdings Recognising the importance of shareholder Board and meet with those Board Directors of 3% or more at the year-end and as at the able to attend.
Those shareholders who engagement, especially as progress continues date of this report are as follows: in adopting the FRC stewardship code, are unable to attend the AGM are invited to email questions to me in advance at towards the end of the year I once again Number of Percentage contacted investors, representative bodies agmquestions@petrofac.
I look forward ordinary of issued to seeing as many of you as possible this year and governance organisations offering them shares share capital the opportunity to meet, with the aim of when my colleagues and I will be available to Ayman Asfari answer your questions.
and family 62,950,678 18.20% Accompanied by our Secretary to the Maroun Semaan Board and the Head of Investor Relations, and family 28,288,813 8.18% Norman Murray we met with three of our largest institutional Standard Life Chairman of the Board shareholders and a key voting and advisory Investments Ltd 17,327,409 5.01% 25 February 2014 services provider.
Whilst areas of focus varied between meetings, succession planning, How does our Board engage with directors remuneration, risk awareness our shareholders and make sure and HSE issues were raised as areas of that it is aware of shareholders particular interest.
As a Board, we acknowledge our responsibilities to promote the success of Petrofac for many of our stakeholders but our principal focus is, of course, our shareholders.
Shareholder sentiment has been a discussion topic at each Board meeting this year, especially as our share price declined during the year.
