Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Nominations Committee report Membership and attendance at meetings Board skill set as at the date held during 2013 ofthisreport Members Meetings attended Oil and Gas Experience 73% Norman Murray Chairman Engineering 55% Ayman Asfari Finance 36% Thomas Thune Andersen International experience 100% Stefano Cao Norman Murray Regulatory and governance 55% Chairman of the Nominations Committee Roxanne Decyk HSE 64% 1 Kathleen Hogenson Operational strategic 100% Ren Mdori management Role of the Committee Rijnhard van Tets Regularly reviews the composition and structure of the Board and its Committees.
1 Kathleen Hogenson was appointed on 1 August 2013.
Identies and recommends for Board approval suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board.
Considers succession planning for Directors and other senior executives and in How the Committee spent its time Cultural diversity of the Group doing this considers diversity, experience, during the year North and knowledge and skills.
Diversity matters 8% Central America 2% Middle East and Search for Directors North Africa 14% Terms of Reference Non-executive Director 35% The Committee reviewed its terms of Governance other reference during the year.
Minor revisions were 21% made to ensure they continue to conform to best practice.
Copies are available on Succession our website.
planning 36% Asia 44% Europe 40% 2013 2012 Gender diversity on the Board Gender diversity on the Board 18% 82% 9% 91% Gender diversity in senior management Gender diversity in senior management 10% 90% 10% 90% Gender diversity across the Group Gender diversity across the Group 13% 87% 13% 87% Gender diversity at graduate level Gender diversity at graduate level 26% 74% 21% 79% 80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 to report that he has now agreed to serve a Building on our commitment last year to focus Dear shareholder full third term, subject to shareholder approval.
on succession planning, the Committee spent As part of its remit, the Committee has As we said last year, the Company has time during the year reviewing the senior responsibility for the identication and undergone a period of substantial change, management pipeline and appraising potential recommendation of prospective Directors yet the tenure of the Boards non-executive managing director succession candidates for Board approval.
A formal procedure for membership is relatively short: with the on an individual basis.
Where particular selecting and recruiting Directors is in place, exception of Rijnhard, all of our Non-executive weaknesses have been identied, action and extensive consideration is given to Directors have less than four years service plans are being implemented to ensure that identifying the capabilities required of potential with the Group.
The Committee therefore high-calibre employees with the required candidates, taking into account the balance continues to believe that Rijnhards Board skills, experience and knowledge are being of existing skills, knowledge, experience and membership is of particular benefit given suitably developed.
This work will continue diversity on the Board.
his corporate memory, which enables him throughout 2014. to challenge colleagues with great insight.
Board changes Furthermore, he has wide-ranging financial Diversity Continuing the process started in 2012, we experience and working with me has At the end of 2012 the Board adopted a engaged in a comprehensive search to nd developed the role of Senior Independent Diversity and Inclusion Policy which applies a new Non-executive Director.
We worked Director so that it has genuine signicance.
not only to the Board but to the entire with Egon Zehnder, a recruitment consultancy Group.
This policy aims to ensure equality rm that has signed up to the voluntary code Following these Board changes, the of opportunity and fairness in all areas of conduct on gender diversity best practice Committee acknowledges the recent of employment, to value the diversity of and with whom we have no other relationship.
proportion shift on the Board between our employees, and promote an inclusive After a lengthy search process, we were Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Irrespective of delighted to welcome Kathleen Hogenson At the time of Kathleens appointment, the background or gender, we aim to recruit on to the Board as a Non-executive Director in Committee also took the opportunity to review merit and employ the best people for each August 2013. the composition of each Board Committee, role.
Diversity and inclusion training for all recommending various changes.
Details of the Kathleen has some 30 years experience in managers and supervisors is scheduled to current membership are disclosed within the the oil and gas industry and currently runs her take place during 2014. individual reports of each Committee.
She brings extensive We believe that diversity is wider than simply sub-surface knowledge, entrepreneurial Succession planning and talent gender and, as a consequence, consider spirit, commercial acumen and an in-depth that our business benets greatly from a management understanding of the industry, attributes Advising the Board on succession is a key varied employee base of over 80 nationalities.
With Kathleens Nevertheless, we recognise that we continue aspect of the Committees role and we are appointment we have also fullled our very conscious of our responsibilities in to have a gender imbalance across the Group, aspiration to have 15% female representation especially given that engineering continues relation to Board and senior management on the Board by 2013. succession plans.
We need to ensure that to be a predominately male-dominated After more than 22 years with the Company, Board and senior management changes profession.
We acknowledge that we have few the Committee acknowledged, with regret, are managed effectively and, in the event of women in senior engineering roles, but we are Maroun Semaans decision to retire and unforeseen changes, the Groups strategy is committed to building a pipeline of talent from step down from the Board at the end of the not disrupted.
the bottom up and to that end, I am pleased year.
The Committee would like to take this to report that 26% of our graduate recruits We recognise that the success of our opportunity to recognise Marouns significant during 2013 were female, which is favourable Company comes from ensuring a talent contribution to the Group and to our Board when compared with the UK industry average pipeline exists throughout the organisation deliberations during a long and distinguished of 14% for 2011 12 as reported in Engineering and that effective HR processes are in career and we, of course, wish him well in UK 2014.
Whilst we do not believe we have all place to attract, retain and develop skilled his retirement.
the answers, we are seeking to address some employees.
Our talent management strategy of the issues and develop suitable plans, In January 2014, we announced the departure is now embedded across the Group, both at including the provision of environments that of Andy Inglis with effect from February 2014. business unit and divisional level.
It is used will encourage employees to remain with us as Andy established the IES division in 2011 and to identify clearly critical roles and gaps, and they progress through their careers.
Details of has overseen the growth of that business, provide a framework for staff training and our current gender diversity statistics are set which has seen a three-fold increase in net performance management, thereby informing out opposite.
We wish Andy well for the succession planning process.
leadership development workshops are being initiated across the Group, with focus being Norman Murray We have previously expressed the view given to coaching.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee that Non-executive Directors should serve 25 February 2014 no longer than six years.
Nevertheless, the Committee made the decision last year that the Board would benefit if Rijnhard remained as a Director for a further year.
