Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors information 1 2 4 3 5 6 1.
Thomas Thune Andersen Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Appointed: March 2011 and as Chairman Appointed: January 2002.
Committees: Member of the Committees: None.
Committees: Chairman of the Committees: Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Remuneration Committee: member Key strengths: Wide-ranging Nominations Committee.
of the Audit, Board Risk and Key strengths: Distinguished record financial management experience.
Key strengths: Wide-reaching board, with strong operational leadership skills.
Strategic and financial planning, financial and commercial experience Clear strategic vision: entrepreneurial cost control and capital efficiencies.
Key strengths: Wide-ranging international having served on various company track record.
External stakeholder communications experience: broad knowledge of energy boards, as both director and chairman.
Extensive business development skills, and management.
Experience of major industry and markets.
Proven track Deep understanding of governance and wealth of oil industry knowledge.
record executing growth strategies and regulatory matters gained in entrepreneurial mobilising and developing organisations.
Experience: Ayman joined the Group in Experience: Tim joined Petrofac in environments andin energy markets.
Extensive knowledge 1991 to establish Petrofac International, September 2011 from Cable & Wireless at board and senior management level Experience: Prior to his portfolio career, of which he was CEO.
He has more Worldwide, where he had been chief from both an executive and nonNorman spent 25 years in the private than 30 years experience in the oil and financial officer between May 2010 and July executive standpoint.
He co-founded Morgan gas industry, having formerly worked as 2011.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Grenfell Private Equity Limited and was managing director of a major civil and Accountants in England and Wales with a Experience: Thomas spent 32 years at also a director of Morgan Grenfell Asset mechanical construction business in Oman.
degree in Engineering Science, he started the A. P. Mller-Mrsk Group with an Management Limited.
Until June 2011, his career with KPMG in London, becoming international career ending as CEO and External appointments: Member of the he was chairman of Cairn Energy plc, a partner in KPMGs Infrastructure Business president of Mrsks oil and gas company.
board of trustees of the American University having served on that board for 12 years.
Until May 2010, he was chief financial He also served on Mrsks main board and of Beirut, founder and Chairman of the In February 2012, Norman stepped down officer at United Utilities Group PLC and its executive committee from 2005 to 2009.
Asfari Foundation and serves on the as a non-executive director of Robert had previously held chief financial officer Since 2009, Thomas has a board portfolio Chatham House Panel of Senior Advisors.
He then stepped roles with RWE Thames Water Limited and in companies in the energy and critical down from the board of Greene King plc in Innogy Holdings PLC now RWE npower infrastructure sectors.
In 2013, Norman became Holdings PLC.
In March 2013, Tim stepped External appointments: Chairman of the non-executive chairman of The Edrington down as a non-executive director of BBC Chief Executive, Engineering, Lloyds Register Group and Chairman Group Limited and was appointed Worldwide and in April 2013, was appointed of the Board of Trustees for the Lloyds Construction, Operations & chairman of Scottish Ballet.
Norman is a non-executive director of G4S plc.
Chairman of DeepOcean a former chairman of the British Venture Maintenance External appointments: Non-executive Group, Vice Chairman of VKR Holding Capital Association and a past president Appointed: January 2012. director of the Carbon Trust and G4S plc.
anda non-executive director of SSE plc.
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Committees: None.
Andy Inglis Key strengths: Thorough knowledge of External appointments: Non-executive Chief Executive, the oil and gas sector and contracting chairman of The Edrington Group Limited environments.
Solid commercial, and chairman of Scottish Ballet.
Integrated Energy Services operational and engineering experience.
Excellent understanding of growing a business.
Experience: Marwan joined Petrofac Key strengths: Strategic understanding in 1992 when the business was first and technical knowledge of the oil and gas established in Sharjah, having previously industry.
Proven operational leadership worked for CCC, a major contracting and significant board and executive company based in the Gulf and the Middle management experience.
In 2007, he was Experience: Andy joined Petrofac in appointed Chief Operating officer of the January 2011 having spent 30 years with Engineering & Construction International BP, latterly as CEO of its exploration and business, with day-to-day responsibility for production business.
He was an executive the successful delivery of overall operations.
director on the BP plc board between In January 2009, he became Managing 2007 and 2010.
He started his BP career Director of Engineering & Construction as a project engineer on various North Ventures before being appointed as Sea projects, followed by commercial and chief executive, ECOM with effect from operating roles in BPs upstream business.
He became executive vice president and External appointments: Member of deputy chief executive of BP exploration the board of trustees of the University & production in 2004.
He is a former nonof Balamand.
executive director of BAE Systems plc.
Andy will leave the Company and step down from the Board on 28 February 2014.
Rijnhard van Tets Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: May 2010.
Appointed: May 2007 and as Senior Independent Director from May 2011.
Committees: Chairman of the Board Risk Committees: Member of the Remuneration, Committees: Member of the Audit, Board Committee: member of the Remuneration Nominations and Board Risk Committees.
Committees: Member of the Audit, and Nominations Committees.
Nominations and Board Risk Committees.
Key strengths: Strong track record in global Key strengths: 30 years experience in Key strengths: Strong international business and international government relations.
the oil and gas industry, with particular Key strengths: Extensive financial experience.
Broad knowledge of energy Extensive experience in the energy expertise in reservoir management background, with solid international board industry.
significant knowledge of technical industry and experience leading strategy and subsurface engineering.
and senior management experience and commercial activities, both as operator in several industries.
Communications, Extensive commercial and strategic achieved from serving on various and contractor.
sales and marketing knowledge including knowledge and proven operational company boards and advisory trusts.
reputation and brand management leadership.
Entrepreneurial track record Excellent experience of governance and Experience: Stefano has 32 years expertise.
Sustainable development and excellent understanding of growing audit committees.
experience in the oil and gas industry.
knowledge, broad international human a business.
From February 2009 to July 2012, he Experience: Rijnhard is general partner of resources knowledge.
served as CEO of Sintonia SA, a holding Experience: Kathleen is the president and Laaken Asset Management NV.
He advised company owning infrastructure assets, Experience: Roxanne retired from The CEO of Zone Energy LLC, a company the managing board of ABN AMRO including toll roads, airports and telecoms.
Royal Dutch Shell Group in December 2010 she founded in 2009 which focuses between 2002 and 2007, having previously From 2000 to 2008, Stefano was chief having held a number of roles including on the acquisition and development served as a managing board member for operating officer of Enis exploration & head of global government affairs and of oil and gas properties.
At ABN AMRO, his roles included production division, before which he spent corporate affairs director over a period of the CEO of Santos USA Corporation that of chairman of the wholesale clients 24 years at Saipem SpA, the international 11 years.
She was a member of Shells from 2001 and 2007, responsible for and investment banking group.
oil and gas services group, holding such executive committee from 2005 to 2009.
Prior to External appointments: Non-executive senior roles as CEO, chairman and chief Prior to joining Shell, Roxanne had various this, Kathleen held a number of senior chairman of Arcadis NV, Euronext operating officer.
In 2013, Stefano joined the roles at Amoco Corporation and Navistar roles at Unocal Corporation and Maxus Amsterdam NV and Euronext NV and nonadvisory board of Ambienta SGR, an SME International Corporation.
executive director of NYSE Euronext Inc investment company which targets the was appointed a director of Ensco plc.
External appointments: President and and BNP Paribas OBAM N. V. environmental sector and was appointed External appointments: Independent CEO of Zone Energy LLC.
Member of the chairman of SPIG SpA, a company director of Snap-on Incorporated, Alliant advisory board of Samsung Oil & Gas 12.
Mary Hitchon selling worldwide cooling towers and air Techsystems Inc and Ensco Inc. USA Corporation, a director on the Board cooled condensers.
Secretary to the Board of Parallel Petroleum LLC.
Trustee of the External appointments: Director of the Society of Exploration Geophysicists.
Appointed: October 2005. management board of A2A SpA and a Experience: Mary joined Petrofac shortly director of the boards of Autostrade per 10.
Ren Mdori after IPO and has responsibility for the lItalia SpA and Aeroporti di Roma SpA.
Groups governance and listing rule Non-executive Director Member of the advisory board of Ambienta compliance framework.
She is secretary SGR and chairman of SPIG SpA.
Appointed: January 2012. to the Board and its Committees.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit Mary is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Committee: member of the Board Risk and Secretaries with 20 years experience in a Nominations Committees.
UK listed environment having previously worked at TBI plc, the AXA group and Key strengths: Extensive and current Savills plc.
Wellestablished knowledge of governance and regulatory matters.
Good understanding of operational and strategic management.
Experience of balance sheet strengthening opportunities and the whole range of nancing arrangements.
Experience: Ren is finance director of Anglo American plc, a position he has held since September 2005.
He was group finance director of The BOC Group plc between June 2000 and May 2005, having held several finance appointments, including as finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas, from 1997.
Ren stepped down as a non-executive director of SSE plc in June 2012.
External appointments: Executive director of Anglo American plc.
Nonexecutive director of fide Beers and Anglo Platinum Limited.
