Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our leadership team 1 2 5 4 6 3 1.
Yves Inbona Group Chief Executive Chief Executive, Engineering, Managing Director, Offshore Managing Director, Offshore Construction, Operations & Projects & Operations Capital Projects Tenure: Ayman joined Petrofac in 1991.
Maintenance Tenure: Bill joined Petrofac in 2007.
Tenure: Yves joined Petrofac in Responsibility: After Ayman joined June 2012.
Petrofac in 1991, he spent the next Tenure: Marwan joined Petrofac Responsibility: Bill has over 26 years two decades growing the business, in 1992. experience in the oil and gas industry Responsibility: Yves joined Petrofac as expanding its range of services, and and now leads the Offshore Projects & the Managing Director of our Offshore Responsibility: Marwan joined Petrofacs rmly establishing Petrofac in its core Operations service line within ECOM, Capital Projects business within ECOM, Engineering & Construction business as markets.
Under Aymans leadership the which focuses on browneld projects which focuses on turnkey delivery of a project manager when the business business has developed into a leading and operations and maintenance offshore platforms, oaters and pipelines was first established in Sharjah in oileld services company providing services worldwide.
Bill joined Petrofac in shallow and deepwater worldwide.
In 2007, he was appointed Chief services across the oil and gas asset initially in the Developments business Yves has extensive expertise in the Operating officer of the Engineering life cycle on both a stand-alone and where he had responsibility for asset offshore sector, having more than 30 & Construction International business, integrated basis.
He led a corporate development and production, including years of industry experience.
with day-to-day responsibility for the re-organisation in 2002 becoming the Don elds in the UKCS and the successful delivery of overall operations.
Previous experience: During his time as Group Chief Executive, and in 2005 Chergui eld in Tunisia.
In January 2009, he became Managing chief operating officer of Saipem SpA, he led a successful initial public Director of Engineering & Construction Previous experience: Prior to joining Yves managed the offshore business, offering IPO, valuing the business Ventures before being appointed as Petrofac, Bill spent eight years at which was the most profitable of all at US$1.3 billion.
Today, Petrofac Chief Executive, ECOM with effect from Halliburton and its subsidiary KBR, as Saipems business units.
He speaks has operations in 29 countries with 1 January 2012. a senior vice president and corporate sevenlanguages and is a graduate over 18,000 employees worldwide.
His responsibilities included engineerfrom Ecole Centrale fide Paris.
Previous experience: Marwan It is listed on the LSE FTSE100 Index membership of the KBR Executive previously worked for a major civil and with a current market cap of around Leadership Team, Global Operations 6.
Craig Muir mechanical construction business US$7.5 billion.
Bill spent his earlier based in the Gulf and the Middle Managing Director, Engineering Previous experience: Ayman graduated career with Mobil North Sea and East for 12 years and has more than &Consulting Services with an MSc in Civil and Urban Shell.
He is a chartered engineer and 31 years experience in the oil and Engineering in 1980 from the University Tenure: Craig joined Petrofac in graduated in Engineering from Heriot gas sector.
Marwan holds a degree of Pennsylvania.
in Mechanical Engineering from the worked for a major civil and mechanical American University of Beirut.
Responsibility: Craig joined Petrofac construction business in Oman, Ayman as Managing Director of Engineering has more than 30 years experience 3.
Subramanian Sarma & Consulting Services within ECOM.
in the oil and gas industry.
In 2010, His responsibilities include the effective Managing Director, Onshore Ayman was heralded Ernst & Youngs management and execution of UK Entrepreneur of the Year.
In 2011 Engineering & Construction Petrofacs engineering service centres and 2012 he was named Oil Services Tenure: Subramanian joined Petrofac across the Middle East and North Executive of the Year at the World in 1997.
Africa, CIS, Asia-Pacic, Europe and National Oil Company Congress.
the Americas, as well as our subsidiary Responsibility: Subramanian joined businesses KW Subsea, TNEI and Petrofac as a project manager and Plant Asset Management.
has held various positions since then including Executive Vice President, Previous experience: Craig previously Projects and Deputy Chief Operating held the position of executive vice officer of Petrofac International.
president within growth regions covering As Managing Director of Onshore the Middle East, Africa and CIS for AMEC, Engineering & Construction within based in Abu Dhabi.
His key focus was ECOM, Sarma is responsible for all our in the growth of engineering services and onshore EPC projects worldwide, which Project Management Contracts.
Prior to are delivered predominantly under lumpjoining AMEC, he also held numerous sum turnkey commercial models, and a roles working in the oileld service sector workforce of around 6,000. including positions with KBR, Brown & Root and AOC International.
He has Previous experience: Prior to joining previously worked in the North Sea, Petrofac, Subramanian worked for extensively in the Middle East, and in Kvaerner and Jacobs in India and Oman Asia-Pacic.
and has more than 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry.
He holds an MSc in Chemical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology.
Cathy McNulty Chief Operating Officer, Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer Group Director of Integrated Energy Services ProductionSolutions Human Resources Tenure: Tim joined Petrofac in 2011.
Tenure: Rob joined Petrofac in 2004.
Tenure: Gordon joined Petrofac Tenure: Cathy joined Petrofac in Responsibility: As Chief Financial in 2006.
February 2014. officer, Tim has overall responsibility for Responsibility: Rob joined Petrofac external and internal financial reporting, to build a Europe-based engineering Responsibility: Gordon leads the Responsibility: As Group HR Director, tax, treasury, investor relations and services business in Woking, UK, Production Solutions service line Cathy has overall responsibility for information technology throughout which now forms part of Petrofacs within IES, although he initially joined advising on all people aspects of the Group.
Engineering & Consulting Services Petrofac as Managing Director of the business.
In 2009, Rob was Petrofac Facilities Management now the people strategy to support the Previous experience: Tim joined appointed Managing Director of Offshore Projects & Operations.
Company in achieving its strategic Petrofac from Cable & Wireless Developments within the IES division Within Production Solutions, Gordon ambitions, focusing on succession Worldwide, where he had been chief with responsibility for leveraging our is responsible for developing and planning, talent management, financial officer between May 2010 engineering and project management managing the Groups portfolio of leadership development, key hires, and July 2011.
A Fellow of the Institute capability through Risk Service Production Enhancement Contracts creating a performance culture, of Chartered Accountants in England Contracts and Equity Upstream including four projects in Mexico, compensation and benets and and Wales with a degree in Engineering Investments to lead the development andthe Ticleni eld in Romania.
Cathy partners Science, he started his career with ofour customers upstream and energy with the business leaders to build the KPMG in London, becoming a partner Previous experience: Prior to joining infrastructure assets, with ongoing strengths and capabilities we need to in KPMGs Infrastructure Business Unit.
Petrofac, Gordon spent more than projects in Malaysia, Tunisia and the meet the ever changing demands of Until May 2010, he was chief financial 20 years with ConocoPhillips in UKCS.
In January 2014, Rob assumed our markets and environments.
officer at United Utilities Group PLC various leadership and management the role of Chief Operating officer, and had previously held chief financial roles throughout the upstream Previous experience: Cathy has more IES, with full responsibility for the IES officer roles with RWE Thames Water business worldwide.
He has also held than 25 years experience in HR, and business portfolio.
Limited and Innogy Holdings PLC now non-executive roles in the DTI and has held a number of senior roles, most RWE npower Holdings PLC.
Previous experience: Rob has more Cabinet Ofce.
Gordon has an MA in recently with Arup, the international than 35 years of experience in the Engineering from Cambridge University consulting and engineering group, 11.
Richard Milne oil and gas industry.
Prior to joining and an MSc in Petroleum Engineering andHewlett Packard.
Petrofac, he served as chief executive from Imperial College, London.
Group Director of Legal and officer of Clough Engineering, the Commercial Affairs main operating company of the 9.
Paul Groves Tenure: Richard joined Petrofac Australian engineering group, Clough Managing Director, in 2004.
Rob holds a degree in Civil TrainingServices Engineering from the University of Responsibility: Richard has overall Tenure: Paul joined Petrofac in 2009.
responsibility for advising on the legal and commercial aspects of the Groups Responsibility: As Managing Director activities.
He played a significant role of Petrofacs Training Services service in Petrofacs successful admission to line, Paul has overall responsibility listing on the London Stock Exchange for developing and running the in 2005 and in developing the Groups Groups global training, competence governance, compliance and risk consultancy and assurance activities frameworks.
As a member of the as part of the IES division.
senior management team, Richard Previous experience: Paul previously participates in the Groups risk review worked with Shell from 2001, where process and advises on corporate he held a number of business matters in addition to significant development roles within the commercial issues.
A Chartered Engineer and Previous experience: Prior to joining Scientist, Paul started his career as a Petrofac, Richard spent some 15 lecturer of physics at Oxford University years in corporate finance which before moving into a number of followed a career in the insurance management and development roles in brokerage industry.
A graduate of organisations such as Alcan Aluminium Oxford University, Richard is qualied Limited and British Gas BG PLC.
