Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Board Risk Committee report Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2013 Members Meetings attended Stefano Cao Chairman 1 Thomas Thune Andersen Roxanne Decyk 1 Kathleen Hogenson Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Ren Mdori Rijnhard van Tets 1 Mr Thune Andersen and Ms Hogenson both joined the Committee in August 2013.
Role of the Committee Recommends risk appetite and delegations of authority.
How the Committee spent its time during the year Reviews the risk management and reporting systems for projects and investments.
Monitors those risks that may impede Health and safety 12% delivery of the Groups strategy Compliance 16% or performance.
Security and travel 11% Group policies 9% Assures itself of the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Insurance 5% Monitors the Groups enterprise risk prole Risk management framework 37% Governance other 10% through oversight of the Key Risk Register.
Reviews risk transfer strategy, including insurance provision.
Terms of Reference The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and have adopted many of the governance changes recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code and the ICSA model terms.
Copies are available on our website.
86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Whilst the Committee has made great Dear shareholder strides in developing a more systematic and 2013 may be characterised as a year when empirical approach to risk management and many of the benets of the risk initiatives its oversight, it has also continued to rely on introduced over the past two years have reports from various functional heads as part started to become apparent.
The Committee of the general assurance process.
Our Group believes that there has been real progress Head of Compliance, Group Treasurer and in identifying and monitoring risk throughout Group Head of Security each provided the organisation during the year and general updates during 2013.
The Group that furthermore we will see additional Director of HSSEIA supplemented his general improvement in 2014 as systems continue updates to the Board with more technical to mature.
presentations to the Committee including The Director of Legal and Commercial detailed briengs on integrity assurance and Affairs and Group Head of Enterprise Risk our process safety framework.
continued to provide greater denition to the The membership of the Committee has been Groups risk management framework, which expanded this year, primarily in response supplied valuable context for the selection to the Codes guidance that the Board as of an Enterprise Risk Management System.
a whole should take responsibility for risk A thorough pilot study was conducted in management.
Thomas Thune Andersen each division before a system was selected.
and Kathleen Hogenson both joined the The system, which is in the process of Committee in August 2013 and each brings being implemented across the Group, will considerable experience.
In addition, the introduce commonly understood standards Committee is supported by the Executive and processes that should help not only Directors, all of whom make themselves to increase our oversight of risk, but also available at each meeting.
This allows the promote an increased cultural awareness Committee to ensure that the Board spend of risk.
We have always been good at significant time considering the principal risks considering project risks but this development and exposures facing the Company.
should increase our ability to monitor and understand systemic risks and the effects Looking ahead, we will continue to monitor of aggregation.
governance developments including the implementation of Lord Sharmans proposals Our Group Head of Enterprise Risk has and we intend to participate in the consultation continued to build on the work we started on the potential modication of the Internal some two years ago to develop a more Control: Guidance to Directors, often referred credible enterprise risk register, a living to as the Turnbull Guidance.
document known as our Key Risk Register.
This identies the significant risks facing the The Committee is pleased by the significant Group together with mitigating factors and progress made this year but is by no means is regularly reviewed by management and complacent.
We will continue to monitor the Committee.
Each area of significant risk progress next year with a view to rening has been considered and metrics or key how we spend our time.
We will concentrate performance indicators KPIs developed our focus so that we discharge our primary so that they can be monitored.
Whilst some responsibilities: to identify and manage risks to KPIs are proving difficult to collect, we have the enterprise and its strategic execution and: made substantial progress.
Looking ahead we to be assured that effective risk management believe we will be able to monitor risk trends systems are in place throughout the Group.
Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 25 February 2014 87 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Board Risk Committee report continued Review of the Groups Risk Enterprise Risk Management Key Risk Register Management Framework system ERM The Key Risk Register KRR identies those The diagram below sets out Petrofacs An ERM system was procured during 2013 risks with the potential to seriously affect the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, and will be embedded across the Group performance, future prospects or reputation which encompasses the policies, culture, during 2014, with the aim of providing an ofthe Company, or prevent us from delivering processes, systems and other aspects of integrated approach to risk management.
The KRR is the the Company that taken together facilitate its The system brings risks together by means by which the Companys principal risks effective and efficient operation.
type and by exposure under the same are reported to the Committee and the Board framework, standardising the approach for for review.
It includes business, financial, Principal aspects of this framework are assessing, reviewing and reporting on risk hazard and operational risks, together with explained in the following sections.
and enhancing visibility and accountability.
external factors over whichthe Board may The risk assessment process is based upon have little or no direct control.
The KRR is the principles and guidelines of BS ISO updated quarterly and identies: 31000:2009 and its purpose is to: nature and extent of the risks facing regulate the entry of appropriate the Company opportunities and risks into the Group likelihood of the risks materialising and their develop our understanding of the most potential impact on business plan objectives significant threats and opportunities the Companys ability to reduce or control promote active management of these the incidence and impact of risks exposures down to acceptable levels the risk prole by exposure and by type assure the achievement of business plan the extent and categories of risk which are objectives and operational performance regarded as acceptable for the Company to bear Groups Risk Management Framework Infrastructure Risk integration Risk management process Company vision Strategic planning and strategy Medium term planning Company values Prospect phase Group policies Go No-go process and standards Communicate and consult Proposal phase Appetite and Design delegated authorities Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Procurement Asset integrity framework identication assessment treatment monitoring reporting Execution Code of Conduct Operation Risk management process Hand over Risk Review Committees Assurance Management Global support processes Insurance Programme Emergency preparedness Company values and culture Enterprise Risk Management system and other tools Leadership, communications and engagement 88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 During 2014 the Committee will continue to Risk appetite Interface between the Board Risk review the Groups Enterprise Risk Prole and The Groups risk appetite has developed Committee and Audit Committee Framework, which together with the evolving organically over a number of years based Petrofac has established separate Audit KRR will increasingly become the means by on historical risk taking characteristics and Board Risk Committees.
As such, which risk appetite and tolerance are dened and has continued to develop during 2013 there are some areas that span both and managed.
as we pursue our growth strategy further.
Committees responsibilities, thereby Our appetite for risk is largely governed requiring effective interfaces between the two Assurance and reporting through the Delegated Authorities DA and Committees to support and discharge their Risk Review Committees RRCs which are As well as regular reports from the Group respective responsibilities.
Head of Enterprise Risk, further reports to embedded across the Group.
Whilst the Board has delegated the detailed the Board and Committee are provided by As part of the review of our risk framework the work to these two Committees, it retains management and include deep-dives into the Committee continues to believe that it should overall responsibility for ensuring that the effectiveness of: Health & Safety processes: not apply a single aggregate risk appetite for Group has effective internal control and risk Asset Integrity processes: Compliance the Group as a whole, preferring to see risk management and therefore receives regular non-conformances: and Security, which appetite managed though individual limits and reports on the work of each Committee from together with other sources of information, parameters which are continuously monitored their respective chairmen.
In addition, the have between them provided a balanced in each Business Service Line and aggregated Board retains ultimate responsibility for the assessment of the principal risks and the for review at Group level.
effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Risk appetite is therefore articulated in a The key areas where both Committees Any control failings or weaknesses are variety of ways appropriate to the type of have common responsibilities are: risk identied and discussed in these reports for exposure under consideration.
For example, management compliance, internal control, example, compliance issues or whistleblowing our Policy statements describe the and in assisting the Board in reviewing the statistics, including the underlying reasons, Committees approach to each risk category: effectiveness of the Companys internal the impact that they have had on the and our Policy Standards describe acceptable control environment covering: Company, and the actions being taken to controls and limits.
When reviewing these reports, mechanisms to support the achievement the Committee has considered how effectively Examples of some of the parameters which of strategic objectives risks have been identied: how they have been exercise control over risk appetite include: reliability of financial reporting mitigated and managed: whether actions are Health & Safety monthly reviews of KPIs appropriateness of the control environment being taken promptly to remedy any failings for LTIs and HiPo incidents or weaknesses: and whether the causes effectiveness and efficiency of operations Asset Integrity monthly reviews of control of the failing or weakness have indicated compliance with applicable laws KPIs associated with all key assets across poor decision-taking or a need for more and regulations the Group extensive monitoring or a reassessment of the effectiveness of the processes.
concentration risk maximum tolerable During 2014 the Committee intends to align exposure by: territory: client: and and coordinate further the activities of these contract type Committees around a COSO based internal control framework.
investment limits for capital expenditures, minimum rates of IRR or annual free cashow targets liquidity headroom agreed by the Board and specified in the Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy financial strength maintain an EBITDA Debt Ratio agreed with the Board loss experience to manage our operational activities and exposures to an agreed value or IRR people risks non-conformances with Code of Conduct, incident reporting, and attrition rates 89 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Board Risk Committee report continued The Board retains ultimate responsibility Governance arrangements for setting the Groups risk appetite and Petrofacs overall system of risk governance relies on a number of committees and management reviewing the risks which the Board considers processes which bring together reports on the management of risk at various levels.
sufciently significant that they might prevent The risk governance process relies upon regular risk assessments and reviews of existing and the delivery of strategy or threaten Petrofacs new opportunities, by considering the risk exposure and appetite of each business service continued existence.
The diagram below sets out the risk governance structure in operation, The Board Risk Committee is constituted showing the interaction between the various risk review and management committees.
by the Board to assist it in discharging Terms of reference are in place for individual committees.
The Committee has responsibility for providing oversight and advice to the Board on the current risk Risk framework exposures and future risk strategy and, in doing so, is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation Sets risk appetite.
to the ERM framework, the Groups risk Approves Key Risk appetite and tolerance in pursuit of business Board Register and significant objectives: and for approval of the DA.
The Committee also assists the Board with the denition and execution of an effective risk management strategy and has responsibility Provides assurance Provides assurance for oversight of the Companys framework on framework on framework of corporate standards, processes and Board oversight of procedures.
In addition, the Committee framework of internal Board Risk Audit controls and risk Committee Committee provides the Board with assurance, on an management.
annual basis, that the design and operating effectiveness of this control framework remain t for purpose.
Key Risk Register The Group Risk Committee GRC is a Senior management given to Board Risk management committee constituted as the consider risks on Committee significant projects and principal executive forum for the review of Group Risk investments for formal enterprise, project and investment risks, in Committee consideration by the accordance with the DA approved by the Board.
The GRC reviews all material new Key Risk Register.
business opportunities and projects including bid submissions, country entry, joint ventures, investments, acquisitions and disposals, and is responsible for making recommendations Divisional management as to the management and mitigation of risk Divisional oversight and review exposure and recommending the proposal Risk Review of projects.
for approval by the Board or the relevant executive.
The GRC is responsible for the assurance of the ERM framework agreed by the Board, including the approval of Group standards and the application of the Boards DA.
In addition, the GRC regularly reviews the Risk management is KRR prior to its submission to the Committee.
Business embedded within Service Line each business service line Assurance to Group Internal management and Functions Audit the Board 90 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Divisional Risk Review Committee Security Business continuity management DRRC.
Each division has a Risk Review Petrofacs security department enhanced its Petrofac has hub ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Committee which provides peer review intelligence capability during 2013, in light of Mumbai, Chennai, London, Woking and Kuala of proposed projects and investments in the uid nature of the security environment Lumpur, which all have business continuity accordance with the DA.
Where required by across the Middle East and North Africa management and disaster recovery plans the DA, it then prepares appropriate materials MENA region, as detailed further on page in place.
Testing of the plans has been for the GRC and ensures that no proposal 56.
This helps to provide assurance to the completed for a number of these ofces.
is presented without being reviewed and Committee that the Group is kept informed As a result of recent growth in the region, supported by the DRRC.
of any changes in our core market place Business Impact Analysis is being updated and that appropriate protective measures in Singapore, Jakarta, and Kuala Lumpur.
To reinforce the message of a More recently Petrofac Training Services individual businesses has its own business safe and secure environment for all our staff became the first emergency response management system that incorporates risk and assets, a global roadshow is planned provider in Aberdeen to receive the ISO management policies and procedures and for 2014 to promote security awareness 22301 accreditation for its business continuity produces its own risk register.
Each business across the Group.
In addition, in light of the structure of the Emergency Response service lines management team meets incident report findings from the In Amenas Service Centre.
regularly and monitors these risks as a attack in Algeria, which took place in matter of course, notes any risk assessment January 2013, our contingency planning for Insurance change and seeks to take appropriate security-led evacuations and other security Given the recent changes in the scale and mitigating action.
emergencies have been and continue to be nature of the Groups activities Petrofac made further enhanced.
a significant step towards its aim of global Code of Conduct and policy coverage in 2013 by placing its global whistleblowing Information technology security insurance programme with Zurich.
This move Our Code of Conduct was re-launched in Following a global assessment of potential comes after Aon was appointed as the 2013.
All reported breaches of the Code information technology threats and external Groups insurance broker and adviser in 2012. are reviewed and assessed by our Group cyber-security threats, the Company decided Head of Compliance, to determine what Following a commitment to the Committee, to embark on a programme to reinforce our further investigation is warranted and to a number of claims scenario workshops IT resilience arrangements sustainability, ensure that appropriate action is taken.
were carried out with each division in 2013. survivability, and security.
Our aim is to The Committee receives details of the The principal objective being to provide respond effectively to any far-reaching issues reported, together with the action assurance that the Groups insurance systems failure.
Controls are being deployed being taken.
Any alleged breaches relating arrangements remain t for purpose given through a new IT strategy, including: security to financial compliance are dealt with by the growth in the scope and scale of its of regional data centres: use of enterprise the Audit Committee.
Further details of our activities and that the insurance programme applications: a common desktop environment: Code, including our whistleblowing facility, will respond as expected in the event of a loss.
network optimisation: and security of critical areprovided on page 57.
Policy limits and policy wordings are reviewed applications.
This topic, currently being each year at programme renewal.
monitored directly by the Board, may form part of the Committees agenda in 2014.
