Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Audit Committee report Dear shareholder Membership and attendance at meetings I assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit held during 2013 Committee in August, having been a member of the Committee since the start of 2012.
Members Meetings attended I succeeded Rijnhard van Tets, who has very Thomas Thune Andersen effectively led the Committee for six years, and whom I am very pleased will remain as a 1 Roxanne Decyk member of the Committee for the remainder of his Board tenure.
2 Kathleen Hogenson While a change to the membership of the Committee took place during the year, we Ren Mdori continue to have four independent NonRen Mdori executive Directors whom I consider are able Chairman of the Audit Committee Rijnhard van Tets to bring an appropriate balance of financial or accounting experience together with a deep 1 Roxanne Decyk was a member until 1 August 2013 understanding of the oil and gas industry.
2 Kathleen Hogenson was appointed as a member on Following her departure from the Committee, 1 August 2013.
Iwish to express my thanks to Roxanne Role of the Committee for her input and commitment over the last Monitors the integrity of the Companys two years.
financial statements and reviews significant The primary responsibility of the Committee financial reporting judgements.
How the Committee spent its time is to oversee our financial reporting Reviews the effectiveness of financial during the year arrangements and to support the Board by and regulatory compliance controls monitoring the integrity of the Companys Internal control Governance and systems.
This allows us to provide Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups shareholders with the necessary information Tax updates 7% internal audit function and reviews its to assess the Companys performance, material findings.
In doing this, Code of Oversees the relationship with the the Committee gives due consideration to Financial Conduct external auditors including agreeing their the Groups system of internal controls and to reporting 30% Whistleblowing fee and assessing their independence matters which coincide with key events in our 2% and effectiveness.
In addition to the External Audit, including general financial reporting matters considered Advises the Board on whether the Annual non-audit services review 21% Policy review 4% during the year, focus was also given to: Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
solvency and going concern statements dividend payments, including compliance Terms of Reference with Jersey legislation During the year we reviewed our terms of reference, adopting the governance reporting related party transactions changes recommended by the UK Corporate fraud detection arrangements Governance Code and the FRC Guidance on appropriateness of the Companys Audit Committees.
Copies are available on non-audit service policy and fees our website.
tax position of the Group Consideration and training was also given on the governance and regulatory changes impacting audit committees this year, including narrative reporting changes identied in the UK Code, auditor reporting revisions and proposed auditor rotation provisions.
Ren Mdori Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 February 2014 82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 During the year KPMG-Forensics were Activities during the year Internal audit appointed to carry out an independent The Committee supports the Board in the The Board has overall responsibility for fraud risk assessment of our procurement effective discharge of its responsibilities ensuring that the Group has an adequate processes within the OEC business in UAE.
for financial reporting and internal control.
On behalf of the It is intended that further assessments will be As set out in our Directors statements on Board, the Committee has oversight over, conducted across other parts of the business page 114, Directors are responsible for the and reviews the effectiveness of, the Groups during 2014.
The purpose of the review was preparation of Group financial statements, internal financial controls.
In doing so the to understand the major fraud risks and in accordance with International Financial Committee draws on input from the Group to identify any weaknesses in our existing Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Group has Head of Internal Audit who is responsible for processes.
Based on the feedback received, an internal control and risk management providing the Committee with assurances on our existing preventative controls will be framework in place which permits the the adequacy of the internal control functions updated.
In addition, a new fraud risk control Company to prepare consolidated accounts.
and attends each Committee meeting.
matrix will be progressively introduced as This includes policies and procedures to At the start of the year, the Committee and when the fraud risk assessment for each ensure that adequate accounting records agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by process is completed.
are maintained and transactions accurately the internal audit team.
A summary progress recorded to ensure the Companys financial report setting out key findings of the work reports and communications to the market Internal controls undertaken is provided at each meeting The Groups internal control systems give a clear and balanced assessment of the and any significant areas of concerns are Companys position.
are largely divided into three categories: discussed and, if required, actions agreed.
operational effectiveness and efficiency: In addition to the matters considered during Any changes to the internal audit plan during reliability of financial reporting: and compliance the year, as set out below, we also reviewed the year are agreed by the Committee and are with applicable laws and regulations.
We have the 2013 full year results and the Annual usually required where: a number of processes in place for identifying, Report and Accounts at the beginning evaluating and managing the risks within circumstances within the Group have of 2014. each of these categories.
As the Group has changed: or grown, the risks being faced have evolved.
the level of risk has increased, or decreased As a result, our internal control framework signicantly: or has had to change to ensure that we have specically requested by management.
the most appropriate controls in place.
A joint meeting of the Committee and the Board Risk Committee was held at year-end so that assurance could be provided to the Board that effective governance, risk management and control processes were in place.
Matters considered and reviewed by the Committee during the year are summarised in the table below: Financial reporting Internal controls External auditors The Companys full-year and half-year financial The internal audit function, including the approval and The audit plan for work to be undertaken during statements, including consideration of the going monitoring of the 2013 internal audit plan the year concern statement and compliance with all financial reporting requirements The Companys full-year and half-year The appropriateness of the Companys non-audit Reports from the external auditors regarding their results announcements made to the London services policy assessments and findings in respect of the full-year Stock Exchange and half-year results The results of managements assessments of Details of the Groups related party transactions The letters of representation issued by the the Groups going concern and Group solvency and whether these were executed on an arms Company to the external auditors for approval by position, including recommending to the Board that length basis the Board the going concern assessment was reasonable The appropriateness of the Companys The Companys policy for detecting fraud The proposed audit fee for the year accounting policies The Companys dividend policy, including The Companys compliance with its tax ling and consideration of the solvency statement required reporting obligations under Companies Jersey Law 1991 83 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Audit Committee report continued significant judgements External auditors significant judgements considered by the Committee are set out in the table below: Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young, have been the Companys auditors since initial listing, and significant judgements How the issue was addressed provide the Committee with relevant reports, reviews, information and advice throughout considered by the Committee by the Committee the year.
The Committee remain satisfied of Revenue and margin recognition The Committee reviewed the reasonableness of judgements the auditors effectiveness and, in making this on xed price engineering, made regarding the cost to complete estimates, the timing of assessment, had due regard to their expertise procurement and construction recognition of variation orders, the adequacy of contingency and understanding of the Group, their contracts provisions to mitigate contract specic risks and the resourcing capabilities, independence and assessments around the potential for liquidated damages for projects behind schedule.
The Committee held discussions with the contents of their reports.
Each year, the Executive Directors and received regular internal audit reports Committee holds a meeting with the auditors into the operating effectiveness of internal controls relevant to without management present to discuss these judgements.
Further, the external auditors performed audit a variety of issues, not least the conduct procedures on revenue recognition and reported their findings of the audit and in addition, the Chairman to the Committee.
The Committee concluded that the timing of the Committee has regular contact with of recognition continues to be in line with IFRS requirements and were comfortable with the judgements made in respect the audit partner outside of scheduled ofthese items.
Each year, Ernst & Young set out their Accounting for IES contracts The appropriateness of the accounting treatments adopted proposed audit approach and scope to in respect of the IES contracts entered into, or subsisting, ensure that the audit is aligned with the during the course of the year was reviewed by the Committee.
Accounting for IES contracts was also an area of focus for the Committees expectations.
This is done with external auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
due regard to continuing developments within The Committee concluded that the accounting treatment the Company, such as for 2013, the on-going adopted in respect of IES contracts continues to be in line execution and completion of IES projects and withIFRS requirements.
the continued delivery of OEC projects and the progress of contracts nearing completion.
Goodwill and tangible The judgements in relation to impairment testing relate to the Where changes to the audit scope have assetimpairment assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the cashoccurred during the year, the Committee has generating units to which the goodwill is allocated, and the fair been encouraged by the auditors interaction value less costs of disposal for other assets subject to testing.
The key assumptions applied for impairment testing relate to the with management to ensure no impact occurs future performance expectations of the cash-generating units to the overall audit process, thereby ensuring using Board approved business plans, and the discount rate strong governance processes.
At year-end, used to calculate the present value of the future cash ows from a report was provided to the Committee the units.
A six monthly report is reviewed by the Board which detailing areas of audit risk, the findings of analyses the forecast results of each IES project compared which were reviewed and considered by with the initial investment case sanctioned by the Board.
The Committee reviewed the results of impairment testing by the Committee.
management, and held discussions with external audit in relation to their findings.
The Committee concluded that the results of Audit tender managements goodwill and tangible asset impairment testing The UK Code now provides that a listed were appropriate.
company should put its external audit contract out to tender at least every 10 years.
Taxation The tax positions within the Group were monitored and reviewed Following the introduction of these new by the Committee to ensure that the Groups effective tax provisions, the Committee gave consideration rate, tax provisions, and the recognition of deferred tax assets to a formal audit tender during 2014 and continue to be appropriate.
Taxation issues were discussed with senior management and a report outlining key tax issues was decided that it would not undertake any reviewed.
The external auditor also reported to the Committee such process this year.
An external audit rm on the findings of their audit of the Groups tax charge is required to appoint a new audit partner and provisions.
every five years and a partner rotation for Petrofac took place following the end of the 2012 year-end audit.
In line with published recommendations, the Company will therefore consider tendering the audit following the end of our current audit partner tenure in 2018.
However, this will be kept under consideration, especially in view of the introduction of any new European legislation.
84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Non-audit services Non-audit services policy To safeguard the independence and The external auditors are automatically objectivity of our external auditors, we have prohibited from carrying out work which a non-audit services policy that sets out the might impair their objectivity.
circumstances where we may appoint our The CFO will seek approval from the external auditors to undertake additional Committee before appointing the external non-audit work.
To ensure compliance with auditors to carry out a piece of non-audit this policy, the Committee regularly reviews work where: the Groups cumulative non-audit spend and the fee is above US$300,000 furthermore gives prior consideration to the total non-audit fees for the year are appointment of Ernst & Young should the approaching 50% of the annual audit fee nature or size of the proposed work require it.
The Committee is satisfied that Ernst & the external auditors would ordinarily Youngs objectivity and independence has be prohibited from carrying out the not been affected by any non-audit work work under the Companys non-audit undertaken by them during the year.
services policy, but not prohibited under Ethical Standard 5, and the There were no breaches during the year of the CFO wants to appoint them due to US$300,000 threshold requiring prior approval exceptional circumstances.
The non-audit spend for The CFO may appoint the external auditor the year, as a percentage of the overall audit to do other types of non-audit work as listed fee, was 32% 2012: 24%.
Whilst this is higher in the policy.
than previous years, some of these costs relate to the work completed in association with our inaugural bond issue although the Whistleblowing majority is largely due to the increased use of Responsibility and oversight of the Companys Ernst & Young in certain jurisdictions, mainly whistleblowing policy and our Speak in North Africa, the Middle East and Central Up programme, lies with the Board Risk Asia, to provide advice and in-country tax Committee.
However, in accordance with compliance services.
We feel that given our agreed processes, any alleged Code Ernst & Youngs experience, their presence in of Conduct breaches relating to financial these regions assures us, they are the most matters are reported to the Committee, appropriate provider of this work.
Details of including details of the investigation, any the fees in respect of audit and non-audit proposed action to be taken along with any related services can be found on page 136 recommended preventative actions to avoid and in note 4e to the financial statements.
Further details are provided on page 91.
During the year the Committee reviewed the non-audit services policy.
Whilst proposed Training EU legislation may introduce increased In August all Committee members received restrictions on audit rms providing certain a one-to-one training session with Ernst & non-audit services, the Committee considers Young on the FRCs revised guidance on audit that the existing policy remains appropriate committees as well as an overview of the for the time being.
It will, however, revisit the changes introduced in UK Governance Code policy once any new regime has been formally 2012 which affect the Committee.
In addition, adopted by the EU.
The current policy, a copy members were encouraged to attend external of which can be found on the Companys seminars run by professional advisers which website, is summarised below.
were felt to be relevant to their role.
