ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 gOvernance gOvernance a t arm ARM is committed to good corporate governance, corporate responsibility and the highest ethical standards.
We believe that effective governance is an essential contributor to our sustained improvement in business performance.
Operating with integrity in all we do is vital to maintain the trust of investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders.
This requires leadership, ethical behaviour and collaboration throughout the organisation.
This years annual report is formed by two The Board actively considers long-term documents, this Strategic Report and a strategy: monitors, challenges and supports Governance and Financial Report which the work of the Executive Committee: contains biographies of the Board and details and is responsible for Board and executive on the Remuneration and other committees.
The Board has We believe that creating two documents ultimate responsibility for the Groups delivers a concise and understandable performance and for overseeing the summary, whilst also providing more management of risk.
We seek to do this detailed information for those that want it.
through a strong and effective governance Both documents can be downloaded from system and by setting and following the www.
com reporting2013 where you standards that we expect from all our can also download a copy of our detailed employees.
These standards are enshrined Corporate Responsibility report.
in ARMs values and in our approach to corporate governance which can be found in The Board nurtures a working environment, the Governance and Financial Report, starting throughout the organisation, where on page 6. the highest standards of behaviour are established, demonstrated and maintained.
risk and risk management This helps us to run the Group effectively Under the guidance of Kathleen ODonovan, and exercise judgement to manage the risks who chairs the Audit Committee, during that we face to levels that are commensurate 2013 management reviewed and improved with the nature of our business.
There are our risk assessment and reporting framework, well-defined differences between the roles with assistance from external advisers.
of the executive and non-executive directors: We need to ensure that our processes are fit and their combined contributions as an for purpose and the information that comes experienced, but healthily diverse, Board add to the Board focuses on the principal risks value to the debate, decision-making and and appropriately informs our ongoing risk development of strategy that are so crucial appetite discussions.
Our approach to risk management and principal risks are covered on pages 47 to 49of this document.
38 Our Vision Our Performance Our commitment Our Financial Report Diversity of the Board Diversity of the Company Diversity of Senior Managers Men 80% Men 83% Men 90% Women 20% Women 17% Women 10% Sta with job grades 712 consisting of 136 of 2,833 employees.
Directors and succession planning employee engagement ethics and values As part of our planned and continuing ARM is a semiconductor IP company and the All directors and employees are required evolution of the Board, there were a number success of our R&D and our relationships to act fairly, honestly and with integrity and of changes in 2013 and there are some with our customers are dependent upon to demonstrate that they have read and further changes planned in 2014. the continuing efforts of our employees.
understand ARMs Code of Business Conduct We need our employees to be engaged and Ethics, a copy of which is published on Simon Segars succeeded Warren East as across the organisation.
It is therefore vital the corporate website at www.
Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013. that all levels of staff are consulted and Our updated Human Rights Policy is now involved in decision making processes.
incorporated into our Code of Business Sir John Buchanan has requested that he To this end, internal conferences and Conduct and Ethics.
step down as Chairman of ARM, due to communications meetings are held regularly a medical condition.
Stuart Chambers corporate responsibility which involve employees from all parts of the joined the Board as Chairman designate Full details of our CR strategy and achievements Group in discussions on future strategy and on 27 January 2014 and will become can be found in the main CR report developments.
Furthermore, employee share Chairman on 1 March 2014.
com reporting2013 and a summary ownership is encouraged and all employees continue as an independent non-executive of highlights from the year are included in the are able to participate in one of the Groups director until the AGM on 1 May 2014 and CR section of this Strategic Report.
schemes to encourage share ownership.
then retire from the Board.
investor relations Diversity Mike Inglis retired from the Board on The Board makes considerable efforts to After the changes referred to above, the 31 March 2013. establish and maintain good relationships Board will comprise three executive directors, Eric Meurice joined the Board on with shareholders and the wider investment the Chairman and five non-executive 1 July 2013. community.
There is regular dialogue directors.
Within this there are eight men with institutional investors during the year 80% and two women 20% which is Philip Rowley retires from the Board in other than during close periods.
The main broadly in line with the gender diversity of May 2014, following his nine years service.
channel of communication is through the ARMs workforce as a whole.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Board biographies and changes are covered in Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
detail in the Governance and Financial Report, Contact details for the investor relations team starting on page 4. can be found on the inside back cover of this report.
References: See Risk management and principal risks in this Strategic Report.
For more on ARM values see the CEO Vision in this Strategic Report.
39 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 gOvernance remuneratiOn Summary total directors pay In line with ARMs long-standing commitment to ethical values and culture, our aim is to ensure that remuneration policies and practices drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Pay for performance and no reward for failure continue to be key principles.
At the same time, pay and benefits must be at a level that will attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people with the skills necessary to achieve our goal of sustained growth in corporate performance.
We operate in a global market, with the majority of our revenues being earned from companies located outside the UK and with more than half our employees being based outside the UK.
The Groups continuing strong performance is due principally to the proven abilities of our executive team.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit and Warren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Mike Muller received a car and petrol allowance.
Simon Segars receives living 61,283, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the US.
Warren East, Mike Inglis and Tudor Brown received an additional cash allowance in place of Group pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a tax-efficient way.
T he bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2013.
According to the terms of the DAB Plan, 50% of this bonus is not paid in cash, but is deferred and becomes payable in shares after three years.
Details of the awards made in February 2012 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
These include gains made by Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Warren East on LTIP and DAB plans on their retirements.
For the first half of 2013, Simon Segars salary was 300,000.
Following his appointment to CEO on 1 July 2013, his salary increased to 500,000, resulting in an average for the year of 400,000.
com reporting2013 42 Our Vision Our Performance Our commitment Our Financial Report 43
