governance goVERnanCE the board recognises that high standards of corporate governance have become a necessary condition for sustainable success in business.
Alan Jackson, chairman dear shareholder I am pleased on behalf of the Board to present Playtechs Governance Reports to shareholders.
At a time when breaches of corporate governance regularly appear in the news headlines and result in companies facing increasingly severe fines and regulatory scrutiny, it is important that the Group is managed with honesty and integrity.
The Board recognises that high standards of corporate governance have become a necessary condition for sustainable success in business.
The Group remains committed to supporting its licensees operating in regulated markets.
Supporting operations in regulated jurisdictions and, where required, ourselves holding and maintaining regulatory licences, requires sound governance and controls.
Therefore a focus on ensuring that the Group has an appropriate governance framework is a strategic imperative.
Our governance framework includes our Code of Conduct, which was revised and updated during the year and a separate Anti-Bribery Policy, also adopted by the Board, are key to the way in which we work both in respect of our relationships with our customers and regulators and also with our colleagues across multiple jurisdictions.
These can both be found on our website at www.
The Board is therefore committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it considers to be central to the effective stewardship of the business and to maintaining the confidence of stakeholders.
Along with other companies, in order to keep up the momentum of improving governance, we need to move beyond simple compliance, to ensuring that we have in place an appropriate governance structure that ensures the Company protects the sustainability of its businesses and the communities in which it operates, while maximising shareholder value and treating all shareholders fairly.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definitions of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
In developing our framework for corporate governance and managing our business, the Board needs to strike a careful balance to ensure that shareholders and other stakeholders are appropriately protected by robust processes and procedures while providing an environment that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit that allows our senior management team and employees to continue to deliver the exceptional growth they have achieved over the recent past.
Our approach, therefore, needs to enable us to clearly focus on the key risks facing the Group and be flexible enough in our approach to accommodate changes resulting from developments in our strategy or changes in the regulatory environment.
We have set out in the following sections how we seek to manage the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, more details on our governance framework and have sought to explain how our corporate governance practises support our strategy.
Alan Jackson Chairman 20 February 2014 Playtech plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 governance diRECtoRS goVERnanCE REPoRt intROductiOn Responsibility for corporate governance lies with the Board, which is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable to shareholders.
In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which contains broad principles and specific provisions to assist boards operate.
The Code applied to Playtech throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2013. cOmPliAnce stAtement We have made significant improvements during the year both to our Board structure and our governance procedures and I am delighted to be able to report that many of the matters where we were not fully compliant as stated in our 2012 Annual Report, no longer apply.
In particular, since the retirement of Roger Withers and my appointment as Chairman, the Company is considered to be fully in compliance with provision A.
On the retirement of Roger Withers on 9 October 2013, Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed as a non-executive director considered to be independent by the Board.
Ms. Stewart-Jones is a leading international expert in gambling law and has over 15 years experience advising companies on gambling related matters and is currently a partner in the firm of DLA Piper LLP the Firm although she has tendered her resignation from the partnership.
However, she will remain at the Firm as a part-time consultant.
The Firm has provided regulatory and legal advice to the Company from time to time, however, given the overall size of the Firm and the relatively small scale of fees received, this relationship is not considered to impact on her independence.
In addition, in order to reinforce her independence, it has been agreed that since her appointment, Hilarys remuneration from the Firm would not be linked, directly or indirectly, to the receipt of fees from the Group, and that any potential residual conflicts will be managed carefully.
In addition, as disclosed in last years report, certain historic option awards made to executive directors all of which were made while the Company was on the Alternative Investment Market do not contain any performance-related vesting conditions.
These awards have now almost entirely vested and been exercised.
The current policy of the Remuneration Committee as stated in its report on pages 57 to 69 is that vesting of all awards to directors and senior management should be dependent on the achievement of challenging performance criteria reflecting Playtechs objectives, including non-financial performance metrics where appropriate, to align with the interests of shareholders generally.
The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, is required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Code by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such negative report has been made.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statement set out below describes how the Group applies the principles identified in the Code.
hOW We gOVeRn the cOmPAny Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, supported by the Groups policies and controls board AUDIt RISk REmUnERAtIOn nOmInAtIOnS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISclOSURE COMMITTEE mAnAGEmEnt COMMITTEE Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 financial statements governance strategic report governance diRECtoRS goVERnanCE REPoRt CONTINUED the bOARd Composition As at 31 December 2013, the Board comprised the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, together with two independent non-executive directors.
The list of directors holding office during the year to 31 December 2013, their responsibilities are set out in the table below.
Directors name title Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer Ron Hoffman Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer Hilary Stewart-Jones Non-executive Director Andrew Thomas Non-executive, Senior Independent Director Roger Withers Non-executive Chairman until 9 October 2013 All of the directors served throughout the financial year, with the exception of Roger Withers, who resigned on 9 October 2013, and Hilary Stewart-Jones, who was appointed on the same date.
The non-executive directors are all considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment, as explained above.
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel acts as secretary to the Board and its committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel is a member of Groups senior management team and all the directors have access to his advice and services.
bOARd OPeRAtiOn The roles of the Chairman Alan Jackson and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer are separated, clearly defined and their respective responsibilities are summarised below.
Chairman Overall effectiveness of the running of the Board: Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full part in the development and determination of the Groups strategic objectives: Keeping the other directors informed of shareholders attitudes towards the Company: Safeguarding the good reputation of the Company and representing it both externally and internally: Acting as the guardian of the Boards decision making processes: and Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the company and particularly at Board level.
Chief Executive Officer Executive leadership of the Companys business on a day to day basis: Developing the overall commercial objectives of the Group and proposing and developing the strategy of the Group in conjunction with the Board as a whole: Responsibility, together with his senior management team, for the execution of the Groups strategy and implementation of Board decisions: Recommendations on senior appointments and development of the management team: and Ensuring that the affairs of the Group are conducted with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
Playtech plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 month matters considered February Consideration of valuation to be put on the Companys 29% interest in William Hill Online and agreement on a price of approximately 424 million march Approval of terms of agreements with Ladbrokes plc Receiving the recommendation from the audit committee in respect of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal controls, the adoption of the going concern statement, impairment and reappointment of the auditors.
Review of the 2012 financial results and approval of the Annual Report & Accounts Consideration of the final dividend Approval of notice of AGM and resolutions to be put to the meeting April Consideration of the Groups banking and treasury arrangements including in relation to proceeds of sale of the Companys 29% interest in William Hill Online Consideration of potential acquisitions Approval of plans to restructure and increase the capacity of the Groups software development capabilities Receive and approve plans for the implementation of new sales processes and restructuring of sales teams Consideration of the strategic plan for Videobet may Consideration of potential partnership opportunities Preparation for the AGM Approval of trading statement June Consideration of recommendations from Canaccord Genuity regarding possible return of capital to shareholders and timing thereof Consideration of proposed acquisition of Poker Strategy and appointment of committee to finalise terms of the acquisition Review of potential opportunities in newly regulated markets and associated costs July Board succession Consideration and approval of proposals to establish a social gaming operation and associated budget impact Receive CEOs strategic update on the Groups operations and opportunities August Finance review including consideration of the interim results Consideration of interim dividend Consideration of various acquisition opportunities October Directorate change Receiving reports on the progress of the agreements with Ladbrokes plc Review of relationships with significant licensees november Consideration of the impact of changes in the UK gambling licensing and taxation regime on the Group Consideration of various acquisition opportunities Consideration of proposed changes to Listing Rules in particular as these impacted the companys relationship agreement with Brickington Trading Limited Approval of revised code of conduct and anti-bribery policy Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance diRECtoRS goVERnanCE REPoRt CONTINUED hOW the bOARd functiOns In accordance with the Code, the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership for the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, and ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board meets regularly and frequently, with 8 meetings scheduled and held in 2013.
During the year, it was also necessary for the Board to hold an unscheduled Board meeting by telephone in accordance with the articles of association, in connection with the approval of the budget for 2013, the exercise by William Hill plc of its option to acquire the Companys 29% stake in William Hill Online, the disposal of the Groups shareholding in Sportech plc and other matters.
During the year, the Chairman met the other non-executives in the absence of the executive directors to re-confirm and take account of their views.
All non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company.
In addition to receiving reports from the Boards committees, reviewing the financial and operational performance of the Group and receiving reports on legal, regulatory and investor relations matters at the board meetings, the following other matters were considered by the Board during 2013 are set out in the table on the previous page.
Board meetings are generally held at the registered office of the Company on the Isle of Man, though during the year a meeting was held in Estonia, giving the Board an opportunity of reviewing the Groups operations and facilities in Tartu and Tallin, and a meeting was held in Barcelona in conjunction with a major European gambling conference that gave the non-executive directors an opportunity to broaden their knowledge of the European gambling industry.
Directors are provided with comprehensive background information for each meeting and all directors were available to participate fully and on an informed basis in the Board decisions.
In addition, certain members of the senior management team including the Chief Operating Officer, the General Counsel, the Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance and the Head of Investor Relations are invited to attend the whole or parts of the meetings to deliver their reports on the business.
Any specific actions arising during meetings are agreed by the Board and a comprehensive follow-up procedure ensures their completion.
Details of the attendance of the directors at meetings of the board and its committees are set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration nomination Risk number of meetings 1 Roger Withers 7 of 8 2 of 2 4 of 5 2 of 2 2 of 4 Alan Jackson 8 of 8 2 of 2 5 of 5 2 of 2 4 of 4 Mor Weizer 8 of 8 - - - - Ron Hoffman 8 of 8 - - - - Andrew Thomas 8 of 8 2 of 2 5 of 5 2 of 2 4 of 4 2 Hilary Stewart-Jones 2 of 8 - 1 of 5 - 2 of 4 1 resigned 9 October 2013 2 appointed 9 October 2013 ResPOnsibility And delegAtiOn The Chairman is primarily responsible for the efficient functioning of the Board.
He ensures that all Directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities focus on coordinating the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
Regular interaction between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer between meetings ensures the Board remains fully informed of developments in the business at all times.
There remains in place a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board consideration and approval, which includes the matters set out below: approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial strategy: approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any changes to them: major investments or capital projects: the extension of the Groups activities into any new business or geographic areas, or to cease any material operations: changes in the Companys capital structure or management and control structure: approval of the annual report and accounts, preliminary and half-yearly financial statements: interim management statements and announcements regarding dividends: Playtech plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 approval of treasury policies, including foreign currency exposures and use of financial derivatives: ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: the entering into of agreements that are not in the ordinary course of business or material strategically or by reason of their size: changes to the size, composition or structure of the Board and its committees: and corporate governance matters.
In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authorities memorandum which sets out levels of authority for employees in the business.
The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to a number of committees of the Board to assist in the discharge of its duties.
The principal committees currently are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Risk & Compliance Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The minutes of each of these committees are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel is secretary to each of these committees.
The Terms of Reference for each of the committees are available to view on the Companys website www.
com Audit cOmmittee The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal and external audit function, and the management of the Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related compliance activities.
The Audit Committees report is set out on pages 54 to 56 and details the Audit Committees membership, activities during the year, significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how those issues were addressed.
The report also contains an explanation of how the committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken in relation to the appointment or reappointment of the auditors.
RemuneRAtiOn cOmmittee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 57 to 63 and details the Remuneration Committees membership, activities during the year and the policy on remuneration.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration Committees activities.
Risk & cOmPliAnce cOmmittee RePORt Under the Code, the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board should maintain a sound system of risk management and internal control systems Main Principle C. 2 As part of its processes in connection with Playtechs move from AIM to a premium listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, and ensuring compliance with the principles of the Code, the Board conducted a review of its processes for identifying and managing the significant risks impacting on the business of the Group.
Following this review, the Board concluded that the remit of the previous Risk Committee of the Board should be expanded to encompass a more significant review of the risks which could impact on the Groups businesses arising from changes in the regulation of online gambling in the markets in which it and its licensees operate.
The revised Risk & Compliance Committee was chaired by Alan Jackson up until his appointment as the Chairman of the Company, when he stood down from the chair of the committee but remains a member.
Hilary Stewart-Jones took over as the Chairman of the Committee on her appointment on 9 October 2013.
The other members of the committee are Andrew Thomas, Non-executive Director, David McLeish, General Counsel, and Ian Ince, Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.
Mr Ince recently joined the company from Sportingbet plc, where he had been responsible for the regulatory and compliance function for over three years.
The Company Secretary & Legal Counsel, Paul Wright is secretary to the committee.
In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as providers of internal audit services, and executives of the Group including Jochanan Sommerfeld, Chief Information Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer may be invited to attend meetings to present matters or for the committee to have the benefit of their experience.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the committee include: Review managements identification and mitigation of key risks to the achievement of the Companys objectives: Monitoring incidents and remedial activity: Agreeing and monitoring the risk assessment programme including, in particular, changes to the regulation of online gambling and the assessment of licensees suitability: Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance diRECtoRS goVERnanCE REPoRt CONTINUED To agree on behalf of the Board and continually review a risk management strategy and relevant policies for the Group, including the employee code of conduct, anti-bribery policy, anti-money laundering policy and wider social responsibility issues: and To satisfy itself and report to the Board that the structures, processes and responsibilities for identifying and managing risks are adequate.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Risk & Compliance Committee is available from the Companys website www.
The Risk & Compliance Committee met four times during the year, and a summary of the matters considered by the committee are set out below: monitoring the regulatory position in a number of jurisdictions including those which are of relative importance to the Group financially and those where changes may represent a risk or opportunity for the Group: consideration of the costs and regulatory requirements for the Group to seek relevant licenses in newly regulating markets: applications by or on behalf of the Group for licenses in existing or newly regulated markets: monitoring developments in relation to changes in the regulatory regime in the United Kingdom and receiving reports in relation to the likely impact on the Group and the need for entities within the Group to apply for licenses: consideration of the overall effectiveness of the compliance strategy and the regulatory risks to the Groups operations and revenues: receiving and considering reports on discussions with, and the results of audits by, regulators: consideration and approval of proposed new code of conduct and anti-bribery policy and of plans for implementation of enhanced training in these areas: reviewing reports by PwC as external advisers on risk management on its review and testing of internal security controls and processes in the Groups key development centres, including assessment of the risks of unauthorised access to the systems or loss of intellectual property assets and proposed steps to be taken to mitigate any risks identified: reviewing reports by PwC as external advisers on risk management on its review of business continuity plans at the Groups development facilities and proposals for the enhancement and or improvement of such plans: and consideration of the risks identified from the Groups risk register and of the effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate such risks.
The committee has been kept informed of any changes to the regulatory position in any significant jurisdiction where the Group, through its licensees, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis, and the item is a standing agenda item for consideration at each board meeting.
It can also convene meetings on a more frequent basis or as when matters arise, if it is determined that enhanced monitoring of a specific risk is warranted.
PRinciPAl Risks A table setting out the principal significant risks identified by the Risk & Compliance Committee and the mitigating actions that have been undertaken by the Group in relation to these is set out on pages 34 and 35 of this document.
nOminAtiOn cOmmittee The Board is required by the Code to establish a Nomination Committee which should lead the process for Board appointments and make recommendations for appointments to the Board.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee should be independent non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee comprises Alan Jackson Chairman, and all of the Non-Executive Directors in office at the date of this Report.
Roger Withers was Chairman of the Nomination Committee until he retired on 9 October 2013.
The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis and members attendance is set out in the table on the previous page.
The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with regard to any changes considered necessary in the identification and nomination of new Directors, the reappointment of existing Directors and appointment of members to the Boards committees.
It also assesses the roles of the existing Directors in office to ensure that there continues to be a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Director appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
Playtech plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Nominations Committee met twice in 2013.
One meeting focused on the consideration of candidates for the appointment of an additional non-executive director that led, after a process involving the review of a number of potential candidates, to the appointment of Hilary Stewart-Jones.
Consideration was given to whether Hilary would have sufficient time available to devote to her duties and her independence.
It was felt that Hilarys extensive regulatory experience as a leading lawyer in the field of gambling would provide a valuable addition to the Board, in particular as Roger Withers was standing down from the Board, and so the Board would lose his extensive industry experience.
In addition, Hilary would enhance the diversity of viewpoints around the boardroom table.
In addition, the committee considered the formal establishment of a Management Committee consisting of senior managers in the business.
It is considered that the establishment of a formal committee will assist in the identification and development of suitable candidates for executive roles within the Company and the overall composition of the Board and senior management team in terms of nationality, gender, experience, independence and skillsets.
At this stage, the Nomination Committee has not set itself any formal targets for diversity, including gender, and believes that appointments should be based on merit, compared against objective criteria, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has the right skills, knowledge and experience that enable it to discharge its responsibilities properly.
Consideration of the benefits of diversity on the Board in all its aspects, including gender will be an important part of this process.
disclOsuRe cOmmittee The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy and timeliness of public announcements of the Company and monitors the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Meetings are held as required.
At the date of this Report the Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew Thomas Chairman of the Audit Committee, Ron Hoffman Chief Financial Officer, David McLeish General Counsel, Paul Wright Company Secretary & Legal Counsel and Adam Kay Head of Investor Relations.
mAnAgement cOmmittee The senior management committee has recently been established to further improve the Groups decision making processes and it is the key management committee for the Group and comprises the Executive Directors of the company.
The members of the committee are Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, Ron Hoffman Chief Financial Officer Shay Segev Chief Operating Officer, Shimon Akad VP Operations, David McLeish General Counsel, Paul Wright Company Secretary & Legal Counsel and Ian Ince Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.
The committee considers and discusses plans coming from the operational side of the business and from the various product verticals, in the light the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment budgets, including the implications of those plans in areas such as resources, budget, legal and compliance.
The committee either approves the plans or as necessary refers the proposal for formal Board review and approval in accordance with the companys formal matters reserved for the board.
The formal minutes of the committee are circulated to the Board after meetings.
bOARd tenuRe In accordance with the articles of association, every new director appointed in the year is required to stand for re-election by shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM next following their appointment.
Accordingly, Hilary Stewart-Jones will stand for re-election at this years AGM.
Also, under the articles of association, at each AGM one-third of the directors excluding any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous AGM or, if their number is not an integral multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office but so that if there are fewer than three directors who are subject to retirement by rotation under the articles one shall retire.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the articles of association, the Board has decided to comply with the Code requirements that directors of companies in the FTSE350 Index submit themselves for re-election annually.
Therefore, all the directors are seeking their re-appointment at this years AGM.
The Board has collectively agreed that the directors proposed for re-election at this years AGM have made significant contributions to the business since their last re-election and each has a key role to play in the formulation of the Groups future strategy.
In certain circumstances, directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice under an agreed board procedure, which would then be organised by the Company Secretary & Legal Counsel, and in this regard the Company would meet their reasonable legal expenses.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance diRECtoRS goVERnanCE REPoRt CONTINUED bOARd effectiVeness Board balance The Board comprises individuals with wide business experience gained in various industry sectors related to the Groups current business and it is the intention of the Board to ensure that the balance of the directors reflects the changing needs of the business.
With this in mind, recognising the increasing importance of regulation of online gambling to the company and its licensees, following the recommendation of the nominations committee, Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed to the Board.
Hilary has brought to Board discussions a wealth of insight into regulatory matters and the potential strategic impact of changes in the legal and regulatory landscape of the gambling industry.
The Board considers that it is of a size and has the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence that is appropriate for the Groups current business.
While not having a specific policy regarding the constitution and balance of the Board, potential new directors are considered on their own merits with regards to their skills, knowledge, experience and credentials.
The non-executive directors continue to contribute their considerable collective experience and wide-ranging skills to the Board and provide a valuable independent perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management.
In addition, they help formulate the Groups strategy.
eVAluAtiOn The Board is committed to an ongoing evaluation process of itself and its committees to assess their performance and identify areas in which their effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
Prior to his departure as Chairman, Roger Withers, in discussion with the Senior Non-executive Director, undertook a review of the performance of individual directors.
Alan Jackson as Senior Nonexecutive Director considered the performance of Mr. Withers, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
There were no material areas of concern highlighted and the main outcome of the evaluation this year was to shape and define the boards objectives for the coming year, continuing the focus on Group strategy and ensuring the structures, capabilities and reporting are in place to achieve the Boards goals.
An external evaluation of the Board has not been held in the past however it is the boards intention that an external facilitator will be used during the course of 2014.
Newly appointed directors can expect a detailed and systematic induction on joining the board.
They meet various members of senior management and familiarise themselves with all core aspects of the Groups operations.
On request, meetings can be arranged with major shareholders.
In 2013, following Hilary Stewart-Joness appointment, meetings were set up with the Companys auditors and visits were arranged for her to the Groups offices in Estonia and the UK to better understand Group operations, and a trip to Israel is planned for later in 2014.
RelAtiOnshiP With shARehOldeRs Primary responsibility for effective communication with shareholders lies with the Chairman, but all the companys directors are available to meet with shareholders throughout the year.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Alan Jackson met with a number of shareholders to discuss the Companys business strategy.
In particular the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer prepare a general presentation for analysts and institutional shareholders following the interim and preliminary announcements.
Details of these presentations together with the Groups financial statements and other announcements can be found on the investor relations section of the Companys website.
Further presentations are also prepared following significant acquisitions and whenever the Board considers it beneficial to shareholders to do so.
Regular meetings with shareholders and potential shareholders are also held by the Head of Investor Relations, and in conjunction with either the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
The Company endeavours to answer all queries raised by shareholders promptly.
The Companys largest shareholder is Brickington Trading Limited Brickington.
Brickington is a wholly owned subsidiary of a trust, one of the ultimate beneficiaries of which is Teddy Sagi, one of the Groups founders.
In connection with the Companys admission to the main list, the Company, Canaccord Genuity Limited and Brickington entered into a relationship agreement, pursuant to which Brickington has agreed that: i it will vote its shares in such a manner so as to procure that each member of the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Brickington and its associates: and ii it will not exercise any of the voting rights attaching to its Playtech plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 shares in such a manner so as to procure any amendment to the articles of association which would be inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the relationship agreement.
Brickington has also agreed that all transactions and relationships between it or any of its associates and the Company will be on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis.
The Board believes that the provisions of the relationship agreement provides reassurance that Brickington will not seek to exercise its shareholding capriciously and re-enforces the independence of the Company.
Separately, Mr. Sagi has entered into an agreement with the Company pursuant to which he will, as and when requested to do so by the company, provide advisory services to the Company for a nominal fee of 1.00 per annum until either Mr. Sagi ceases to be interested whether legally or beneficially in any Ordinary Shares or either party terminates the agreement following its fifth anniversary, whichever is the earlier.
During the year, the Company has sought advisory services on occasion in relation to certain significant strategic opportunities and transactions.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Companys annual general meeting, at which the Chairman will present the key highlights of the Groups performance.
The Board will be available at the annual general meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
inVestOR RelAtiOns And cOmmunicAtiOns The company has well-established Investor Relations IR processes, which support a structured programme of communications with existing and potential investors and analysts.
Executive directors and members of the IR team participated in a number of investor events, attending industry conferences and regularly meet or are in contact with existing and potential institutional investors from around the world, ensuring that Group performance and strategy is effectively communicated, within regulatory constraints.
Other representatives of the Board and senior management meet with investors from time to time.
The Head of IR provides regular reports to the Board on related matters, issues of concern to investors, and analysts views and opinions.
Whenever required, the executive directors and the Chairman communicate with the Canaccord Genuity to confirm shareholder sentiment and to consult on governance issues.
During 2013, forty-nine regulatory announcements were released informing the market of acquisitions, corporate actions, important customer contracts, financial results, the results of annual general meetings and Board changes.
Copies of these announcements, together with other IR information and documents, are available on the Group website www.
summARy In presenting this report, and having monitored, reviewed or approved all shareholder communications in 2013 and since the end of the financial year, the Board is confident that it has presented a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
Alan Jackson Chairman Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance audit CommittEE REPoRt Andrew thomas, chairman of Audit committee cOmPOsitiOn The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who is a qualified Chartered Accountant and member of the Institute of Taxation.
Therefore Andrew has recent relevant financial experience, in compliance with the Code provision C3.1.
and was appointed to chair the Committee on his appointment to the Board in June 2012.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Alan Jackson and Hilary Stewart-Jones, both non-executive directors.
During the year, while he was a non-executive director, Roger Withers sat on the Committee.
The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent non-executive directors should serve on the Audit Committee and the Company is now compliant with this recommendation.
The Chief Financial Officer attended all meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation and the Group Financial Controller was invited to attend the meeting of the Committee that considered the audited accounts and the interim statement, as was the external auditor, BDO LLP BDO.
The members of the Committee were also able to meet the auditors without any executive directors being present in order to receive feedback from them on matters such as the quality of interaction with management.
The chairman of the Committee also met with BDO separately on several occasions to discuss matters involving the audit process.
During the year the chairman of the Audit Committee met, individually and in private, with management in order to understand more fully the context and challenges of Playtechs business operations and thereby ensure the Committees time was used most effectively.
He also visited various parts of the business and met informally with a number of members of management below Board level to gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the role of the Committee.
The activities of the Committee members during the last year have enabled it to gain a good understanding of the culture of the organisation, the risks and challenges faced and the adequacy and timeliness of the action being taken to address them.
ResPOnsibilities The Audit Committees primary function is to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial oversight responsibilities.
The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply required financial reporting standards and internal control principles and also for maintaining appropriate relationships with the Companys external auditors, BDO.
The Committees terms of reference can be viewed on the Companys website www.
In particular the Code calls for the description of the work of the Audit Committee to include the significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed, how the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach of the Committee to appointing the auditors and how objectivity and independence are safeguarded relative to non-audit services.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the Committee included: monitoring and challenging the effectiveness of internal control and associated functions: approving and amending group accounting policies: reviewing and ensuring the integrity of interim and annual financial statements in particular the actions and judgments of management in relation thereto before submission to the board: monitor the implementation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics Code of Ethics and compliance with their provisions: review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, anonymously or in confidence and without fear of retaliation, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters arising under the Code of Ethics: review promptly all reports on the Company from the internal auditors and reviewing and assess the annual internal audit plan: monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit: and ensuring audit independence and pre-approving any significant non-audit services to be provided by the auditor in accordance with the appropriate committee policy to limit the value of any non-audit services provided by the auditors to 100% of the audit fees in the absence of any exceptional circumstances.
Playtech plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit cOmmittee ActiVities In 2013, the Audit Committee met formally twice and informally twice.
Its work included reviewing the final and interim financial statements and matters raised by management and BDO.
These included consideration of the following key judgements applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are described in the relevant accounting policies and detailed in the notes to the financial statements on pages 79 to 110.
Revenue Recognition The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of revenue recognition, in particular to assess the recognition of revenue from turnkey and other contracts where the Group is to be remunerated other than by way of a simple revenue share arrangement, and undertook a review of key contracts.
Following this review, the Committee concluded that the timing of revenue recognition continues to be in line with IFRS requirements.
BDO performed detailed audit procedures on revenue recognition and reported their findings to the Committee, which was satisfied as a result of the review process that the approach taken by the Group in the financial statements was appropriate.
Goodwill & intangible assets During the year, the Audit Committee also considered the judgements made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management to support the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets and the investments in subsidiaries to determine whether there was a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these assets and whether an impairment should be recognised.
The committee considered the assumptions, estimates and judgements made by management to support the models that underpin the valuation of intangible assets in the balance sheet.
The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future performance expectations of the business unit.
Business plans and cash-flow forecasts prepared by management supporting the future performance expectations used in the calculation were reviewed.
The committee received a report on the outcome of the impairment review performed by management.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditor, who reported their findings to the committee.
The committee satisfied itself that no material impairments were required to the carrying value of investments, goodwill or other intangible assets.
Legal & Regulatory Given the developing nature of the gambling sector in many countries across the world, there is a risk that potential material legal or regulatory matters are not disclosed or provided for in the financial statements and therefore the committee considered with the Groups compliance and legal departments whether there were any known instances of material breaches in regulatory and licence compliance that needed to be disclosed or other claims that required provisions to be made in the financial statements.
In particular, the Committee considered forthcoming changes in the regulatory environment in a number of jurisdictions in which the Groups licensees operate, in particular in the United Kingdom where a new licensing regime is being introduced that will require the Group to obtain regulatory licenses as a software provider and also to provide its poker and bingo networks.
The Committee considered the control systems adopted to identify potential regulatory issues and the compliance control systems operating in the Group.
Discussions were held with both the Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance and the General Counsel.
Following this review, the Committee were satisfied that adequate provisions and disclosures were being made for any potential contingent liabilities.
Tax The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the overall tax management and strategy of the Group during the year in light of the external and internal advice sought by management and reviewed how the Group considers tax as part of its overall business planning.
Consideration was given to transfer pricing studies carried out on behalf of the Group in the period, and assessed, in respect of earlier studies, whether there had been any change in the basis of operations in the relevant territories.
Other matters that were considered by the Committee during the year included: the valuation of available for sale investments held by the Group: the appropriate treatment for the proceeds arising from the sale of the Groups interests in William Hill Online and Sportech PLC: the management of the Groups cash balances in particular the effectiveness of the Groups treasury management and hedging practises and stability of the Groups banking relationships: the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management: updates on people risk, and cybersecurity risks: the results of internal audit reviews, management action plans to resolve any issues arising and the tracking of their resolution: and the Groups policies for preventing fraud, bribery, its employee code of conduct and its business ethics and anti-bribery policy.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Financial statements Governance Strategic report governance audit CommittEE REPoRt CONTINUED inteRnAl cOntROl The Company has established a co-sourced internal audit function responsible for reviewing, reporting and monitoring improvements in internal control performance across its operations, involving  LLP PwC and the Groups Chief Information Officer, Jochanan Sommerfeld.
During the year, PwC were engaged to perform a review of the organisations centralised information security controls in place, nonspecific to a location or product.
This work included a focus on the Groups Data Loss Prevention DLP tools: static code analysis tools: management of DDoS Distributed Denial of Service attacks and security incident and event monitoring.
In addition PwC undertook a workshop, to provide an indication of the overall status and maturity of the business continuity framework within the Group.
The output of these work-streams was considered by the Audit Committee along with the members of the Risk & Compliance Committee and in the light of recommendations made by the internal auditor certain actions were agreed in mitigation of identified risks and to enhance existing processes.
Further work being undertaken focuses on key risk processes and is intended to provide an ongoing independent assurance that these key processes are effective.
The Board confirms that any necessary action will be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review.
This system of internal controls and audit is designed to ensure local legal and regulatory compliance and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
AuditORs indePendence The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes a formal assessment of the auditors independence each year, which includes: a review of non-audit related services provided by BDO and related fees: discussion with the auditor of a written report detailing all relationships with the Company and any other parties which could affect independence or the perception of independence: a review of the auditors own procedures for ensuring independence of the audit firm and partners and staff involved in the audit, including the rotation of the audit partner: obtaining written confirmation from the auditors that they are independent, and a review of fees paid to the auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services.
During the year the auditors undertook certain specific pieces of non-audit work, none of which exceeded the non-audit work threshold level referred to above and details of which are contained on page 93 of the financial statements.
BDO were selected to undertake these tasks due to their familiarity with the gambling industry and in relation to taxation matters, their alignment with work carried out under the audit.
In order to maintain BDOs independence and objectivity, BDO undertook its standard independence procedures in relation to those engagements, further detail of the non-audit fees is included in Note 6 to the financial statements on page 93.
The audit engagement partner, having acted in this role for five years, would cease to act in this capacity in accordance with Auditing Practices Board APB Ethical Standards.
As disclosed in the 2012 Report & Accounts, the Audit Committee determined, with the agreement of BDO LLP, that it is necessary for the current audit engagement partner to continue in this role until the AGM in 2014 in order to safeguard audit quality, as permitted by the APB Ethical Standard 3 Revised.
This will allow him to sign the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Audit Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, the Audit Committee will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The Audit Committee will comply with the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which is expected to come into effect from 1 October 2014.
Under the transitional arrangements, the Audit Committee expects a formal tender process to be held no later than two years from the end of the current audit engagement partner rotation period.
As partner rotation is due in the year ended 31 December 2014, a tender process is expected to be held no later than 2018.
Andrew thomas Chairman of Audit Committee Playtech plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
