Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks 2012: 52 weeks ended 26 January 2013.
Principal activities The Group trades principally as a manufacturer, distributor and seller of soft drinks.
Business review A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on page 3, the Business Review on pages 9 to 26 and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 29 to 38.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and should be treated as forming part of this Directors Report.
Results and dividends The Groups profit after tax for the financial year ended 26 January 2013 attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 25.564m 2012: 28.146m.
An interim dividend for the current year of 2.616p 2012: 2.43p per ordinary share was paid on 19 October 2012.
A second interim dividend of 7.40p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 18 January 2013, in lieu of the final dividend for the current year 2012 final dividend: 6.88p.
The directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented an income statement for the Company.
The Companys profit for the year was 17.314m 2012: 21.441m.
Directors The following were directors of the Company during the financial year ended 26 January 2013: r R. G. Hanna r R. A.
B. C. Short r J. D. Kemp r A. L. Memmott r W. R. G. Barr r M. A. Griffiths r J. R. Nicolson appointed 1 January 2013 r J. Warburton resigned 20 August 2012 Subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and any relevant legislation, the directors may exercise all of the powers of the Company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Articles give the directors power to appoint and remove directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire no later than the third annual general meeting after the annual general meeting at which they were last elected or re-elected.
However, in order to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical details of the board are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Directors interests The directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract to which any Group company was a party during the year.
Directors third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the Company and each of its directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify each director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out their role as a director of the Company.
The directors are also indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil proceedings or any claim in relation to the Company or brought by a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the director must repay those 42 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 defence costs to the Company.
The Companys total liability under each indemnity is limited to 5.0m for each event giving rise to a claim under that indemnity.
The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year and has renewed that policy.
Research and development The Group undertakes research and development activities in order to develop its range of new and existing products.
Expenditure during the year on research and development amounted to 779,000 2012: 738,000.
Political donations and political expenditure No Group company made any political donations or incurred any political expenditure in the year 2012: nil.
Charitable donations During the year the Company entered into fundraising activities for The Princes Trust.
Further details of the work are included within the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 29 to 38.
The total of the Companys cash donations for charitable purposes during the year was 293,328 2012: 240,873.
This included cash donations direct to charities and community programmes.
In addition, donations of products and merchandise were made in support of both charitable and community based activities.
Land and buildings The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant difference between the market value and the book value of the Groups land and buildings as at 26 January 2013.
Post balance sheet events Relevant post balance sheet events requiring disclosure are included in note 29 to the accounts.
Employee involvement The Group is committed to engaging employees at all levels regarding matters which affect them and the performance of the Group.
This is achieved in a number of ways, including the use of regular briefing procedures, which twice yearly include a report on trading results.
Quarterly communication and consultation meetings are held at which employee representatives views are taken into account when the Company is making decisions that are likely to affect employees interests.
In addition to this, the Groups intranet site, introduced during the current year, provides up-to-date information regarding the Groups activities.
All qualifying employees are entitled to join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Employment of disabled persons Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment will continue.
The Groups policy is that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons are, as far as possible, identical to those of other employees.
Payment policy and practice The Groups policy is to make payment in accordance with the terms agreed with suppliers when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Trade payables days as at 26 January 2013 were 35 28 January 2012: 28 based on the ratio of Company trade payables note 20 at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
Substantial shareholdings As at 21 March 2013, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital: Number of shares % of voting rights Type of holding Caledonia Investments plc 10,431,000 8.93 Indirect Standard Life Investments Limited 11,618,984 9.95 Direct and indirect Finsbury Growth & Income Trust plc 4,610,070 3.95 Direct A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Directors Report Continued Relations with shareholders The Company has regular discussions with and briefings for analysts, investors and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director normally meet with major shareholders twice annually in order to develop an understanding of their views and brief the next board meeting on their discussions.
All directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
At the AGM, all shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity to participate in questions and answers with the board on matters relating to the Companys operation and performance.
Share capital As at 26 January 2013 the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of ordinary shares of 4 1 6 pence each.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
Note 27 to the financial statements contains details of the ordinary share capital.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the Articles, shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared and paid out of profits available for such purposes.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: r those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws r pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain directors and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares and are prohibited from dealing during close periods At 26 January 2013 the Company had authority, pursuant to the shareholders resolution of 21 May 2012, to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
It is proposed that this authority be renewed at the 2013 AGM, as detailed in the Notice of AGM.
At 26 January 2013 Robert Barr Limited, as trustee of the General Employee Benefit Trust, the Savings Related Benefit Trust, the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the Long Service Award Trust the RBL Trustee, held 1.09% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the Group.
As at 26 January 2013, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the AESOP Trustee held 1.52% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for participants in the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan the Plan.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the RBL Trustees holdings under the Savings Related Benefit Trust and the Long Service Award Trust.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares held by the AESOP Trustee and the RBL Trustee under the Plan which have not been appropriated to participants.
The voting rights in relation to the RBL Trustees shareholdings are exercised by the RBL Trustee, who may vote or abstain from voting the shares as it sees fit in respect of shares which are unvested or have not been appropriated to employees.
Under the rules of the Plan, eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Details of the Plan are set out on page 52.
Plan shares which have been appropriated to participants are held in trust for those participants by the AESOP Trustee.
Voting rights in respect of shares which have been appropriated to participants are exercised by the AESOP Trustee on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the AESOP Trustee, no vote is registered in respect of those shares.
In addition, the AESOP Trustee does not vote any unappropriated shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
The Executive Share Option Scheme was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM 2010 ESOS.
The 2010 ESOS superseded the Companys current Executive Share Option Scheme, which expires on 19 May 2013 2003 ESOS.
To date, no options have been awarded under the 2003 ESOS or the 2010 ESOS.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Change of control As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, under certain conditions the notice period for executive directors may increase from one year to two years in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
44 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 58.
The Companys banking facilities may, at the discretion of the lender, be repayable upon a change of control.
Articles of association The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles at the 2013 AGM.
Financial risk management Information on the exposure of the Group to certain financial risks and on the Groups objectives and policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas is detailed in the Financial risk management disclosure in note 24.
Contracts of signicance There were no contracts of significance as defined by Listing Rule 9.8 in existence during the financial year.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 9 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 26.
After making the appropriate enquiries, the directors have concluded that the Group will be able to meet its financial obligations and will continue to generate positive free cash flow for the foreseeable future and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the board for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is included in the Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 46 to 50 of this report.
The Statement on Corporate Governance forms part of this Directors Report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Annual general meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 9.30am on 28 May 2013 at the offices of KPMG, 191 West George Street, Glasgow, G2 2LJ.
The Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 111 to 112 of this report.
Recommendation to shareholders The board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of them.
A. Barr Company Secretary 21 March 2013 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Statement on Corporate Governance The board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
The board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The board currently has eight members, comprising four executive directors, the non-executive Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chairman also ensures that board meetings are underpinned by a culture of openness and challenge, with sufficient time made available to debate issues arising.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the board.
The senior independent non-executive director, J. R. Nicolson, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or the other executive directors, or where communication through such channels would be inappropriate.
The board considers that M. A. Griffiths and J. R. Nicolson are independent for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 of the U. K. Corporate Governance Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code, and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The board considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. Warburton and J. R. Nicolson both fulfilled the role of senior independent director during the year to 26 January 2013: J. Warburton was the senior independent director until he resigned from the board on 20 August 2012 and J. R. Nicolson became the senior independent director with effect from his appointment to the board on 1 January 2013.
R. G. Hanna holds directorships with a number of companies.
In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, he is chairman of Bowleven plc and Troy Income & Growth Trust plc and a director of Peatallan plc.
The board does not consider that R. G. Hannas other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as Chairman of the Company effectively.
However, in order to comply with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 58.
Role of the board The board is responsible for the long term success of the Group, determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which includes the executive directors and seven senior managers as at the date of this report.
Board performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman carried out a performance evaluation of the board, the board committees and each of the directors.
As in previous years, this was an internal exercise led by the Chairman, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process using written survey questionnaires.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The outcome of these evaluations showed that directors were positive about the performance and process of the board and the board committees.
The board considered that an internal exercise remained appropriate for the current year, however it agreed to consider annually whether an externally facilitated evaluation might beappropriate.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following formal performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and all of the directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
Independent professional advice Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
46 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013
