Premier Farnell 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Premier Farnell is committed to good corporate governance across the Group, for which the Board is accountable.
This report describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied during the year ended 3February 2013.
Chairmans overview The Chairmans views on corporate governance at Premier Farnell and our compliance with the Code are included in the Chairmans statement set out on pages 8 and 9 of this report.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended 3 February 2013 we have complied with the main principles and provisions of the Code and applied the principles of the Code in the manner described in this report.
The Companys description ofits business model is set out in the Business Review starting at page 24.
Corporate governance framework The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is Group Board outlined in the diagram left and set out in this report.
The Groups risk management framework is described in the risk management section Web Advisory onpage 50.
Board Remuneration Nomination Board size and composition Audit Committee Committee Committee There are currently seven Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four otherNon-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The size and Tax and Treasury Disclosure composition of the Board and its Committees are regularly reviewed by the Committee Committee Board and, in particular, the Nominations Committee to ensure that there isan appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, independence and Indicates reporting line only not a formal committee of the Board.
During the year, the following changes were made: 1 Laurence Bain was appointed as Chief Executive officer on 12 June 2012, having been an Executive Director since 2003 in his former role of Chief Operating officer: 2 Mark Whiteling re-joined the Board as an Executive Director in his role as Chief Financial officer on 5 November 2012: 3 Harriet Green resigned from the Board as an Executive Director at the close of our AGM on 12 June 2012: and 4 Nicholas Cadbury resigned from the Board as an Executive Director on5 November 2012.
More details on our Board members are on pages 38 and 39.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 41 Role of the Board Summary of matters reserved for the Board UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in good Strategic faith, would promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit t Approval of and monitoring delivery of the Groups strategic plans and of shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard annual business plans.
among other things to: t Review of business performance.
t The likely consequences of any decision in the long term: t Approving major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
t The interests of Premier Farnell employees: Finance, governance and controls t The need to foster Premier Farnells business relationships with suppliers, t Maintenance of a system of internal control and risk management.
customers and others: t Approval of policies in respect of corporate governance, treasury, t The impact of Premier Farnells operations on the community and the sustainability, investor relations and political donations and the environment: Companys Code of Conduct.
t The desirability of Premier Farnell maintaining a reputation for high t Approval of major projects and contracts and any matter having a standards of business conduct: and material impact on future financial performance of the business.
t The need to act fairly as between shareholders of Premier Farnell.
t Approval of Directors conicts of interest.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the t Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
The Board provides t Approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and entrepreneurial leadership, determines and monitors performance of the Chief Executive.
Groups strategic aims, values and standards, ensures adequate succession planning for senior management and monitors policies and t Rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys shares.
t Establishing the Companys corporate governance policy, including The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the compliance with the Code.
Group: the Executive Directors are directly responsible for running the Succession planning and reward business operations and ensuring that the necessary financial and human t Ensuring adequate succession plans are in place.
resources are in place in order to achieve the Companys strategic aims.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for constructively challenging t Board and Board Committee appointments and removals.
and helping develop proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance t Appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
ofmanagement, determining levels of remuneration and for succession planning for the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors must t Appointment or removal of the auditors and determination of the also satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that auditfee.
financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
t Major changes in employee share schemes or pension schemes.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and exercises control Reporting over the performance of each operating company within the Group by t Approval of the Annual Report, preliminary and half yearly financial agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those statements and interim management statements.
Certain matters are reserved for approval by the Board and the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls t Decision on matters to be addressed in the business review.
and risk management, as described on pages 49 to 50.
Following Regulatory presentation by executive management and a disciplined process of review t Approval of the Groups interim dividend and recommendation of and challenge by the Board, clear decisions on the policy and strategy are naldividend.
adopted and the executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
t Compliance with the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval.
These matters are significant to the Group Board activities in 2012 13 asa whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational implications.
Theschedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed and updated At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive reported to the Board on regularly.
A summary of those matters follows:- significant issues for the Company, factors relevant to the businesses and on their performance, and on the performance of the Group as a whole.
Reports were also made by each of the principal Board Committees, theChief Financial officer, Company Secretary and members of senior management where relevant.
The diagram overleaf illustrates the areas offocus and examples of the related activity of the Board in 2012 13. c i g e s t a m r t i S A t e S l a i p r i u h e s n r e e r p d e a r e t l n C E o R r e p s o p r o a Premier Farnell 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Key actions we have taken this year include: Set Strategic Aims t Regularly reviewed progress of major strategic initiatives such as the launch of Raspberry Pi t Dened and reviewed success criteria for the business t Reviewed and approved the cost reduction actions required to ensure the Companys continued resilience, exibility and tness for purpose asa web-based business Premier t Regularly reviewed economic and industry conditions alongside business Farnell plc performance, including new and existing competitor reviews t Reviewed the performance, strategy and market conditions of the regional businesses, with presentations from and inputs directly to local business leaders Succession Planning t Appointed Laurence Bain as Chief Executive officer for his considerable knowledge of the Premier Farnell business, his commitment to the strategic transformation of the business, his expertise in operations andhis exceptional financial acumen t Appointed Mark Whiteling as Chief Financial officer, whose extensive financial and commercial experience in the global distribution and Framework of controls electronics industries will be invaluable in maintaining a robust cost t Assessed the effectiveness of our financial reporting controls, internal baseand driving efficiencies controls and assurance processes and reviewed and approved updated financial policies t Reviewed and approved organisational changes to ensure the structure is aligned to the strategy t Consulted with major shareholders on areas of remuneration policy t Held an externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the Board t Regularly reviewed situational conicts of Board members and individual Directors, resulting in dened actions t Reviewed the adoption of new legislation requirements and levels of t Reviewed leadership succession planning for the Groups senior roles corporate compliance and established individualised development programmes for members t Regular condential discussions with Head of Internal Audit and External ofthe Global Executive Team to ensure a continued pipeline of Audit and reviewed their effectiveness internaltalent t Reviewed the Groups Treasury Policy t Rened the NEDs mentoring programme to focus the NEDs coaching skills on the focus on senior leadership Sustainability t Received regular updates on the Groups performance and reporting Entrepreneurial leadership onsustainability in light of statutory requirements t Reviewed performance against strategic KPIs at every meeting t Regularly reviewed updates on the Groups health and safety t Received regular updates from the Web Advisory Board on innovations, performance developing practice and opportunities in eCommerce and the web sphere t Reviewed and refreshed the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy t Reviewed the results of the Global employee engagement survey and and processes proposed actions to drive satisfaction, retention and motivation across the Group t Continued to work more greenly as a Board, using electronic storage and display software in place of Board papers t Visited sales and distribution facilities in Belgium, Germany, Poland, the USA, UK, Italy and Singapore, spending time with senior management and talented performers locally Role of the Chairman The role of the Chairman is to lead the Board to ensure effectiveness in allaspects of its role and, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, to plan agenda items and timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures that the membership of the Board is appropriate to the needs of the business, that Board committees carry out their duties, including reporting to the Board, and that appropriate personal objectives are established for the Chief Executive then advising him towards their achievement.
The Chairman also ensures that Directors are up to date withtraining and development needs and kept well informed, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, so that Board members have the information necessary to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions.
Effective communication and an open culture are promoted by the Chairman, both at Board meetings and with shareholders.
As part of the process of assessing the Chief Executives performance, the Chairman meets all of the Non-Executive Directors collectively at least once a year without the Executive Directors present.
n t s e i b S i l o i t c y i a l s k l r o o r w t n e o m c a r f F o n g o i n s i s n e n c a c l u P S Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 43 Role of the Chief Executive Non-Executive Director independence The role of the Chief Executive officer CEO is to lead the delivery The Board considers Non-Executive Director independence on an annual ofstrategy and the executive management of the Group.
The CEO is basis as part of each Non-Executive Directors performance evaluation.
responsible, among other things, for the development and implementation Inits 2012 13 review, the Board concluded that all the Non-Executive of strategy and processes which enable the Group to meet the requirements Directors who had served during the year other than the Chairman for of its shareholders, for meeting the Groups budget and for providing the whom this is not relevant under the Code were independent.
The appropriate environment to recruit, engage, retain and develop the Chairman met the independence criteria dened by the Code as at the personnel needed to deliver the strategy.
Role of the Senior Independent Director Length of service of Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director offers a line of communication to the The respective periods of service of our Non-Executive Directors including Company for shareholders on issues they may not want to address the Chairman are as follows: through other channels.
He would also lead the resolution of any significant Board Succession Non-Executive Directors issues within the Board that it would not be appropriate for the Chair or the CEO to handle, if any were to arise.
He acts as a sounding board for the Director Date of Current Name appointment contract start Terms Chairman and leads the other Non-Executive Directors in their annual A Dougal 01 09 2006 16 06 2012 1yr 3rd appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
D Millard 01 09 2007 01 09 2010 3yr 2nd T Reddin 30 09 2007 30 09 2010 3yr 1st Role of the Company Secretary P Withers 01 09 2007 01 09 2010 3yr 2nd The Company Secretary and his team provide support to the Board.
V Gooding 15 06 2011 15 06 2011 3yr 1st Theirservices are available to all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Directors, in order to ensure they receive timely and accurate information to Term 1 Term 2 Term 3 full their duties.
Directors may also take independent professional advice Notwithstanding that appointments may be made for longer than a one-year term, each Director on request at the Companys expense.
stands for re-election by shareholders annually.
External appointments and Non-Executive Directors Re-election of Directors timecommitments In line with the Code, all Directors seek re-election every year and any Premier Farnell recognises that there are significant advantages to Director appointed during the year also seeks election at the next AGM.
individuals and to the Board as a whole of our Directors serving on the Incompliance with the Code, all of our Directors will retire at our AGM in Boards of other companies.
In line with the Code recommendation, the June 2013 and offer themselves for re-election or election.
Companys policy is that Executive Directors are permitted to hold one Non-Executive Directorship with another company, with all external Conicts of interest appointments being approved by the Board.
In line with this policy, Mark Whiteling retains his position as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Any Director is obliged to seek authorisation before taking up any position Audit Committee of Future plc.
The Board supports this as it promotes that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company.
Marks development and retention and because of the additional The Board is empowered to authorise situations of potential conicts of experience it provides to Mark for the benefit of the Premier Farnell Board.
interest, where it sees t, so that a Director is not in breach of his or her Details of the remuneration received for this external appointment are duty.
All existing external appointments and other situations of potential included in the Remuneration Report on page 64. conicts of interest for each Director have been reviewed and authorised bythe Board and a register of these so-called situational conicts is Our Chairman, Val Gooding maintained her Non-Executive Directorships kept, noted at each Board meeting and reviewed on an annual basis.
atStandard Chartered Bank, the Home Ofce and the Lawn Tennis AllDirectors are aware of the need to consult with the Company Secretary Association, stepping down.
from the Board of XL Group plc in regarding any further conicts which may arise so that prior consideration November2012.
can be given by the Board as to whether or not such conict should Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval of the beapproved.
Chairman before taking on any further appointments and the Chairman requires the approval of the Board before adding to her commitments.
Induction, business awareness and development Inallcases Directors must ensure that their external appointments do not involve a time commitment that would adversely affect their responsibilities A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place for new to Premier Farnell.
This includes an information pack and personalised induction programme that is tailored to the needs of each Director and agreed with The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors set out the him or her so that he or she can gain a better understanding of the Group timecommitment expected to be necessary to perform their duties.
As well as an overview of the Group and its functions Theexpected number of days required of each Non-Executive Director and governance, the process also encompasses detailed reviews of the excluding travel is 18 days, increased to 22 days for the Chairman of strategic projects and initiatives underway and one-to-one meetings with eachof the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This commitment the senior managers responsible for their implementation and for the reects the time required for each NonExecutive Director to discharge relevant functions and site visits.
Board policies, prior papers and minutes their duties and responsibilities effectively, including site visits, mentoring are provided to and discussed with new Directors.
A similar, streamlined and training activities.
process was followed when Mark Whiteling re-joined the Company to refresh his knowledge of Premier Farnell and ensure that he was up to datewith all relevant developments during his absence.
Premier Farnell 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In order to ensure that Directors continue to further their understanding In June 2012, Consilium Board Review Consilium was appointed to ofthe issues facing the Group and are able to challenge constructively conduct a review of the Boards effectiveness.
Consilium are an andhelp develop proposals on strategy, the Non-Executive Directors are independent consultancy specialising in the facilitation of board encouraged to undertake individual visits to Group locations.
During the performance evaluations and their founder, Raymond Dinkin, an expert year under review visits have taken place to our facilities in Singapore, inorganisational behaviour and governance, led the review.
He spent Munich, Liege Belgium, Ravenswood USA, Preston UK, Italy, Krakow timewith each Director in ofce at that time and the Company Secretary Poland and Leeds UK.
In addition, at least one Board meeting each year individually and with the Board as a whole, including in observing formal is normally held at a Premier Farnell site other than its corporate head ofce Board and Committee meetings and reviewed Board processes.
In light of the wider economic environment and in a drive for evaluation extended beyond Board performance to cover perceived cost savings, no international off-site Board meetings were held in the year business challenges, climate and Board dynamics including diversity, ended 3 February 2013.
However, the Board meeting and AGM were held processes, stewardship of the strategy, governance and organisational in Leeds in June 2012, giving Directors the opportunity to visit the Farnell capacity.
It also included feedback on the Chairmans performance element14 European group ofces and distribution centre and spend provided to the Senior Independent Director.
The output of the review valuable time getting to know local management, reviewing business waspresented to the Board and discussed among Board members to performance with them and meeting shareholders.
The December 2013 resolve appropriate actions.
Board meeting is to be held at an overseas location, to allow the Directors The outcomes of this years evaluation and actions agreed on are to interact with local employees and experience the wider business.
These summarised below: visits and the presentations which take place at them are in addition tothe frequent reviews and updates on current issues made at other 2012 13 Performance review Boardmeetings throughout the year by Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Outcome Action planned and taken during the year As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each Director receives Information presented to the Board t Key performance metrics have been feedback on his or her performance following the Boards performance should include more fully developed agreed with the Board and are evaluation in each year.
market analysis with clear performance reviewed annually.
Non-Executive Directors may also act as mentors to nominated members t Market insights are to be presented of the Global Executive Team where a development opportunity or tothe Board at each meeting and provided as context to support alignment of interests and experience is identied.
This enables senior recommendations made to the Board.
management to benefit from the Non-Executives extensive experience Schedule the strategy review ahead of t A review of the strategy was held in andallows the Directors involved the opportunity to evaluate senior leaders operational planning each year, with March 2013, with further reviews to be below Board level, thereby aiding succession planning.
Non-Executive guidance from the Board on its agenda.
Directors have also provided their feedback on a number of senior executives Consider adding one additional Board t An additional full Board meeting will be well known to them as part of the 360 degree appraisal process.
meeting per year to ensure time is added in October each year from available for the review of strategic 2013 14.
Performance evaluation priorities and new initiatives.
Strengthen the relationship with investors t The Companys brokers are to be The Code recommends that a formal and rigorous evaluation of the through occasional meetings with the invited to attend and present, to at least effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and Companys brokers to provide overviews one Board meeting each year, with the that this process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
In 2011 12, of the marketplace and shareholder first such attendance in March 2013. this evaluation was carried out internally and in 2012 13 an externally perspectives.
Consider holding a minimum of two t Two NED-only Board dinners are to be meetings per annum at which only held each year and NED-only sessions The main points raised by the 2011 12 evaluation and the actions taken Non-Executive Directors are present.
will precede each Remuneration aresummarised below: Committee meeting.
Consider which Executives should attend t Attendance advisable for the Chief 2011 12 Performance review the Remuneration Committee meetings Executive, supported by the Chief to provide advice on senior manager People officer where relevant and Outcome Action taken during the year andGroup remuneration.
The Chief Finance officer A further Board meeting or A Board teleconference was held in will not be present unless his specic teleconference to take place between October 2012 and will be scheduled input is required.
theusual September and December atasimilar time in future years.
Conduct more frequent and regular t Reviews of all business units added meetings to receive updates on and deeper reviews of all businesses tothe Boards rolling 12-monthly discuss trading andmajor projects.
schedule, with functional heads to To improve understanding of regional The regional business presidents of the attend the annual strategy review.
business issues, presentations to be Americas and Europe presented to the Consider whether Company should t Decision made and announced to the made to the Board at least annually Board during 2012 13, with a presentation move to half yearly reporting market in March 2013 to move to half fromeach regional business.
to be made by the president of the yearly reporting and away from AsiaPacic business early in 2013 14. quarterly reporting.
Similarpresentations are now scheduled annually on the Boards rolling agenda.
Neither Consillium Board Review nor Raymond Dinkin has any other One meeting to be held annuallywhich Such meetings took place in January connection with the Company and both are considered to be independent.
only the Non-Executive Directors attend.
A full externally facilitated Board An externally facilitated Board evaluation evaluation review to be considered in the took place in 2012 13. financial year ending in January 2013.
To aid in their review, Board papers Guidance on the preparation of Board should follow a consistent and papers was issued to management in conciseformat.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 45 Board Committees Head of Internal Audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor separately to review Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the Board current issues and developments prior to each meeting of the Audit Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the Chief independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
The three Financial officer for line management purposes and functionally to the Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations play an Chairman of the Audit Committee.
essential role in supporting the Board and ensuring that the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Audit Committee Terms of Reference summary All members of the Board and its Committees have access to the services of the Company Secretariat on all matters including planning and t Reviews accounting policies and the integrity and content of the financial maintenance of minutes.
The minutes of each Board Committee meeting statements.
are circulated and noted by the Board.
This section of the report sets out t Monitors disclosure controls and procedures and the Groups internal how the Board and its Committees work within the governance framework controls.
t Considers the adequacy and scope of external and internal audits.
Each Committees terms of reference set out the specic matters for which delegated authority has been given by the Board.
Their terms of reference t Oversees the relationship with and appointment of the external auditor.
are reviewed annually and are available on the Governance section of our t Monitors the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, website at www.
A summary of the terms of reference particularly with regard to the scope and expenditure on non-audit work.
for each committee is included in the committee summaries below.
t Reviews and approves the statements to be included in the Annual Report on internal control and risk management.
t Monitors the financial reporting process.
 LLP were first appointed as the Groups auditors in 1997.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance to Audit Committees published in September 2012, the Company proposes to put the Groups requirement for audit services out to tender once in each ten-year period going forward.
Any tender will be timed to coincide with the rotation of engagement of the lead audit partner.
Rotations take place every five years, with the next rotation scheduled for 2017.
The effectiveness of the annual audit process is reviewed each year, along withthe performance of the lead audit partner, when the robustness of the audit process, quality of delivery and service levels provided are rigorously assessed and input is sought from senior management and those involved in the audit process across the business.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor are considered annually by the Committee.
Particular regard is also given to the level of non-audit fees.
A formal policy is maintained on the provision of non-audit services which prohibits the provision of services such as financial information systems design and implementation, internal audit outsourcing or legal services, with tax compliance services permitted within dened monetary limits.
All other Dennis Millard permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case basis Audit Committee Chairman bythe Chairman on behalf of the Audit Committee.
This policy also allowscertain audit-related services to be provided by the auditor Audit Committee withindened monetary limits.
The full non-audit services policy is During the year, the Committee comprised: availablein the Investors Board Committees section of our website at www.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee receives Dennis Millard Chairman areport on all non-audit services provided and the estimated cost since Andrew Dougal the last meeting.
The Audit Committee monitors these costs in the context Paul Withers of the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the potential to affect Secretary auditor independence and objectivity does not arise.
The split between Steven Webb audit and non-audit fees for 2012 13 and information on the nature of thenon-audit fees incurred is detailed on page 81 of the Consolidated Dennis Millard, the Chairman of the Committee, brings significant recent Financial Statements.
and relevant financial expertise, which is augmented by the considerable financial expertise and experience of the other members of the Committee.
The Audit Committee has adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy There is more information on Denniss experience on page 38. restricting the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditor.
In addition to Committee members, there are a number of regular attendees at each meeting.
The Chief Executive, the Board Chairman, Chief Financial officer, Head of Internal Audit and lead external audit partner normally attend all scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee members regularly schedule time before or after a meeting, without any Executive Directors or senior management present, to raise any questions and discuss issues with the external auditors or Premier Farnell 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Paul Withers Val Gooding Remuneration Committee Chairman Nominations Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised: The composition of the Nominations Committee during the year was: Paul Withers Chairman Val Gooding Chairman Andrew Dougal Andrew Dougal Dennis Millard Laurence Bain appointed 12 June 2012 Dennis Millard Secretary Thomas Reddin Steven Webb Paul Withers In addition to the Committee members, there are a number of regular Secretary attendees at each meeting, including the Chief Executive, the Chairman, Steven Webb and Chief People officer.
No individual is present when their own remuneration or fees are discussed or decided.
As part of its role is to review the composition of the Board, the Nominations Committee recommended to the Board the appointment ofLaurence Bain as the Companys Chief Executive officer and the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference summary re-appointment of Mark Whiteling as Chief Financial officer.
t Determines remuneration for Executive Directors and senior executives In each case, the Nominations Committee evaluated the balance of skills, across the Group being the first layer of management below Board level.
experience, independence and knowledge of the Board before detailed t Reviews and has regard to remuneration trends across the Group when candidate specications dening the criteria for the new appointees were setting remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The specication for the role of CEO was agreed with the Chairman and the specication for the Chief Financial officer role was t Approves design of and targets for performance-related pay for agreed with the Chief Executive officer.
A short-list of potential appointees Executive Directors, approving any payments to be made based was produced with the assistance of external search agencies in each onperformance.
The Miles Partnership was appointed to help with the search for a t Determines the fees of the Chairman.
new CEO and Egon Zhender International, who worked for the Company when Nicholas Cadbury was appointed in 2011, was engaged to assist t Approves contracts of employment with Executive Directors.
with the recruitment of the Chief Finance officer.
Neither agency has any t Approves the design of and governs employee share schemes.
other connection with the Company.
t Approves the policy for expense claims by Directors.
The Miles Partnership was asked to interview Laurence Bain as preferred internal candidate for the CEO role and provide feedback to the t Oversees changes to employee benefit structures.
Laurence was interviewed by all of the Non-Executive t Considers risks to the Group as a result of remuneration plans.
Directors and Mark Whiteling was interviewed by the Chairman.
Input was also taken from other condential sources on the preferred candidates and Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of our remuneration other potential appointees.
The Committee reviewed the shortlist of policy are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
potential candidates and the input from the agencies, the Directors who had interviewed Laurence or Mark and the other sources.
Laurence Bain was selected as Chief Executive officer.
Laurence has played a key role in the development and delivery of the Companys strategy, including the successful development of its eCommerce solutions and its expansion into international markets and will continue to drive the transformation of the business into a multi-channel, high service organisation which constantly improves its customer proposition.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 47 Mark Whiteling was chosen as Chief Financial officer, taking on an Nominations Committee Terms of Reference summary expanded role to that he formerly held.
Mark also played a pivotal role in t Reviews the composition of the Board.
developing the Companys current strategy and worked closely with CEO Laurence Bain in its implementation.
He rejoins with extensive knowledge t Recommends appointment of new Directors.
of the Company, its people, business, markets and the industry in which it t Considers succession plans for senior and executive positions.
operates, as well as a strong mix of financial and commercial expertise and established productive relationship with the Chief Executive officer.
The Nominations Committee recognises the benets to the Group of diversity in the workforce and in the composition of the Board itself.
While the Company will continue to make all appointments based on the best candidate for the role, its target is for women to make up 30% of management grade employees.
The Company is well on the way to achieving this, with women making up 27% of the Global Executive Team and Board combined.
Female membership of the Board stands at 14%.
While this is below the overall Group target for senior management, the Board has followed the Companys policy of engaging the best candidate for a role, regardless of gender or other diversity.
The Companys appointment of a female chairman is evidence of its commitment to gender diversity and, without prejudicing its policy of appointing the most suitable applicant for any role, the drive for greater female representation at Board level will be a factor in future appointments.
There is further information onthe Companys policy and practices on diversity on page 35 of the Business Review.
Key activities for the Committees in 2012 13 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee t Reviewed financial statements in annual report, t Reviewed recommendations and approved awards t The Committee meets as necessary.
halfyear results and quarterly results statements.
toemployees under the Companys long term t Led the search for a new Chief Executive officer incentive plans.
t Reviewed scope and effectiveness of internal and andChief Financial officer.
t Engaged with major investors regarding Executive t Recommended the appointment of Laurence Bain Director remuneration and the Directors Remuneration t Reviewed performance of the external audit partner.
asChief Executive officer and the reappointment of Report 2012 13.
Mark Whiteling as Chief Financial officer.
t Reviewed the policy on and provision of non-audit t Reviewed executive compensation including salaries, services by the external auditors.
t Recommended the reappointment of Andrew Dougal bonuses, performance against objectives in the prior as Non-Executive Director.
t Monitored effectiveness of the system of internal year and the adequacy of objectives for 2012 13. controls and risk management.
t Reviewed Board and Board Committee composition t Reviewed terms of reference.
to ensure correct mix of skills and experience.
t Received reports from external and internal audit t Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration onthe major findings of their work.
Report 2012 13. t Reviewed minutes and reports from DisclosureCommittee.
Premier Farnell 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Other Committees Tax and Treasury Committee These committees form part of the Corporate Governance Framework, The Tax and Treasury Committee is made up of the Chief Financial officer butare not formally appointed committees of the Board.
who acts as Chairman of the Committee, Group Finance Director, Director of Financial Control and Reporting, Head of Global Planning and Analysis Web Advisory Board and Head of Internal Audit.
It meets four times a year and provides The Web Advisory Boards WAB primary function is to offer counsel to recommendations to the Board on the Group strategy and policy for tax theBoard and the Chief Executive officer on matters relating to the web and treasury matters.
This includes risk identication, annual conrmations and eCommerce.
It brings together internal and external expertise and to the Audit Committee on the internal controls for tax and treasury, the capabilities in core areas of our eCommerce strategy, enabling these monitoring of KPIs and approval of intra-group loans.
experts to bring challenge and insight to accelerate further our progress inthese important strategic areas.
Board meetings Thomas Reddin is chair of the WAB, drawing on his extensive experience During the financial year ending in February 2013, the Board held five in eCommerce and brand work.
Other regular contributors include scheduled Board meetings.
In addition to these five scheduled meetings, representatives from software and IT industries, from companies there were four additional Board meetings held to consider: the specialising in enterprise search and business intelligence applications appointment of a Chief Executive officer in May 2012: business andfrom web platform providers as well as electronic design engineers.
performance and market conditions for the first half and forecasts for the The WAB meets four times a year to review major web developments second half of the year in May 2012: the appointment of a Chief Financial andpotential opportunities and threats for the Company online and offers officer in August 2012: and an update on trading and outlook in October the Company: 2012.
The number of regularly scheduled meetings is proposed to increase t a powerful external lens into the Groups online strategy: to six per annum going forward with effect from 2013 14. t a unique approach to driving our web business and ensuring that the The dates of scheduled meetings are set at least one year in advance best ideas from other markets are drawn together and examined in andall Directors are expected to attend each meeting.
All Directors are relation to our own journey: provided with the papers and relevant information in good time prior to each meeting and, if a Director is unable to attend a meeting due to t an unrivalled team of experts, selected to represent key parts of the exceptional circumstances, he or she will usually discuss any matters they challenges we face: wish to raise with the Chairman of the meeting, in order to ensure his or t advice and insight on and a unique networking opportunity in the herviews are given consideration.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and external environment: Company Secretary work together to ensure that the Directors receive relevant information for them to discharge their duties and that such t the leveraging of new ideas and new thinking each quarter: and information is accurate, timely and clear.
We provide all our Directors with t both tactical, medium term advice in areas like search, usability, and an electronic tablet for easy access to papers regardless of location and community and a critical, long term view of the online environment secure access to electronic copies of meeting papers and other key andwhere the Company can best exploit new opportunities.
The documents include past and current Board and Committee papers, reports, minutes, policies, press Disclosure Committee coverage, analyst reports and material from brieng sessions.
The Disclosure Committee is made up of the Executive Directors, the Meeting attendance for 2012 13 is set out in the table below.
In 2012 13, Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal allDirectors committed an appropriate amount of time to full their duties Audit and our Investor Relations Executive.
It met four times in 2011 12 to and responsibilities to the Board.
review all results announcements, following certication from individual executive managers which together cover all sections of the announcements.
Reports of the proceedings are provided to the Audit Committee, along with the minutes of the Disclosure Committee meetings.
Going forward, Disclosure Committee meetings will be held bi-annually.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 49 Board and Committee attendance Governance framework The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and Premier Farnell aims to build a sustainable business through consistent, itsCommittees during 2012 13 and individual attendance by Board and profitable growth and to make sure that our customers and wider Committee members at those meetings, with A indicating the maximum stakeholders can trust us.
We recognise that creating shareholder value number of meetings held during the year taking into account the isthe reward for taking acceptable risks.
constitution of the Committee and the duration of the Directors tenure, The Board has overall accountability for running the business effectively where appropriate which the relevant Director could have attended and byensuring all risks are appropriately managed.
Internal controls and risk Bshowing the actual number of meetings the Director attended.
management are designed to limit the chance of failure to achieve Audit Remuneration Nominations corporate objectives.
Independent assurance is provided by the external Board Committee Committee Committee and internal auditors who present their findings regularly to the Audit Name of Director meetings meetings meetings meetings Committee.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, AB AB A B AB evaluating and managing significant business risks.
However, any system Chairman: can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting Val Gooding 9 9 3 3 internal control objectives and is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Company failing to meet its business objectives.
Executive Directors: 1 Laurence Bain 99 11 Effective internal control 2 Mark Whiteling 2 2 One of the Boards key responsibilities is to ensure that management 3 Harriet Green 43 21 maintains a system of internal control which provides assurance of effective 4 Nicholas Cadbury 7 6 and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and regulation.
The Boards consideration of the materiality of financial and Non-Executive other risks to the Groups business and reputation ensures that appropriate Directors: controls are in place.
Consideration is also given to the relative costs and Andrew Dougal 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 benets of implementing specic controls.
SID Dennis Millard 9944 6 6 33 Thomas Reddin 9 9 3 3 Assurance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of: Paul Withers 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 t the systems of internal control, primarily through approving the internal Indicates that the relevant Director was not a member of the Committee.
SID Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the financial controls for 1 Laurence Bain was appointed to the Nominations Committee from 12 June 2012. financial reporting of the annual, preliminary and half yearly financial 2 Mark Whiteling appointed to the Board on 5 November 2012. statements and a review of the nature, scope and reports of external audit: 3 Harriet Green retired from the Board on 12 June 2012.
4 Nicholas Cadbury retired from the Board on 5 November 2012. t the management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity All instances of non-attendance by Directors arose where the relevant and internal audit reports on the process: and Director had tendered his or her resignation or indicated his or her intention t any action taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any control to resign from the Board, such that his or her attendance would have been failingsor weaknesses identied, ensuring these are managed through inappropriate in light of the subject matter of the meeting.
the input of the relevant Director was sought prior to the meeting and communicated to the other Board or Committee members at the meeting.
The Audit Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during the year, which is in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control Revised Guidance for Non-Executive Director Board briengs Directors on the Combined Code 2005.
It confirms that the necessary The Chief Executive meets on a one-to-one basis with the Non-Executive action plans to remedy identied weaknesses in internal control are in place Directors in between Board meetings and ahead of each scheduled Board and have been throughout the year.
The Board also, where appropriate, meeting to brief them on the business of the meeting, as well as to seek ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy their counsel, exchange ideas and discuss the Groups business and or mitigate significant failings or weaknesses identied from the review of affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors use these meetings as an opportunity effectiveness of internal controls.
to advise the Chief Executive whether they have any specic questions they The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and consolidation would like to raise about the business of the meeting.
The Chief Executive, processes are designed under the supervision of the Chief Financial officer Chairman and Company Secretary are always available for the Directors to to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial discuss any issues concerning Board meetings or other matters.
reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Premier Farnell 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting t A Tax and Treasury Committee which identies and manages the cannot provide absolute assurance and may not prevent or detect all Groups risks for tax and treasury and provides an annual conrmation misstatements whether caused by error or fraud.
tothe Audit Committee that tax and treasury policies have been implemented correctly and an efficient and effective system for internal The Groups internal control over financial reporting and the preparation control is in place for tax and treasury.
ofconsolidated financial information includes policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance that transactions have been recorded and The Board also has an annual process to review the Groups risk appetite, presented accurately.
Finance ofcers of subsidiary businesses of the considering the key factors underpinning delivery of the Group strategy and Group are required to certify that the financial information they have supporting sustainable operational and financial performance.
The exercise provided as part of the annual consolidation process has been properly was undertaken through detailed interviews conducted with each Director prepared and reviewed in accordance with instructions from the Group around specic risks and discussed in detail at a Board meeting.
exercise is in addition to the evaluation of major business risks and controls referred to above.
Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal controls in place in respect of the processes of preparing consolidated financial information Controls and financial reporting.
The internal controls which provide assurance to the Committee of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law During the year, there were no changes to the internal controls over the and regulation include: processes of financial reporting and preparation of consolidated financial information that have, or are reasonably likely to materially affect the level t Dened organisational structure with authorities properly delegated.
ofassurance provided over the reliability of the financial statements.
t Formal authorisation process for investments.
t Clearly dened responsibilities for financial management on maintenance Risk identication of financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate As well as the risks that management identies through the ongoing and timely financial management information.
processes of reporting and comparing actual performance against t The reporting line of the Head of Internal Audit to the Audit Committee detailednancial and operating plans, analysing significant variances and to the Chief Financial officer.
andscrutinising key performance indicators, the Audit Committee hasadditional risk identication processes, which include: t The Code of Conduct which clearly defines expected standards of business behaviour is widely publicised and included as part of the t risks and controls process for identifying, evaluating and managing employee induction programme.
During the year, business and function leaders haveoperated the process, which has been coordinated by the Head t The implementation of a number of anti-bribery and corruption AB&C ofInternal Audit.
A risk management policy was issued during the policies and procedures, designed to address the specic areas of risk yeartoprovide guidance and support continual improvement in the ofcorruption faced by the Group, taking into account the nature of its identication, management and mitigation of risks within the organisation.
businesses and the sectors and territories in which it does business.
These policies and procedures have been disseminated and reinforced t Internal and external audit reports, which comment on controls by the provision of AB&C training tailored to the needs, responsibilities tomanage identied risks and also identify new ones.
and experiences of the relevant target audiences within the Group and t the Code of Conduct which encourages employees to report any areas the launch of an AB&C resource portal on the Groups intranet.
of concern regarding compliance with controls and is combined with t The control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels and acondential whistle-blowing helpline.
In addition, employees are proper segregation of duties.
encouraged to raise comments, questions and concerns condentially and directly with the Chief Executive using an asklaurence email t Our comprehensive financial review cycle.
The annual budget is address and can raise their questions on anti-bribery and corruption approved by the Board and monthly variances are reviewed against through the Groups dedicated AB&C email hotline.
detailed financial and operating plans.
t Disclosure Committee meetings which are held to review all financial t The half yearly Disclosure Committee and sign off submitted to it from statements.
The Disclosure Committee reports into the Audit Committee the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Ofcers of each business unit and requires certication from individual executive managers on the covering internal controls, legal and regulatory compliance, Code of relevant sections of all financial statements.
Conduct tax issues and financial controls.
t A quarterly process to collate all contingent liabilities identied by the t A process of internal control self-assessment co-ordinated by the Internal business units and function heads.
This report is tabled at the Disclosure Audit team.
Committee and then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is on page 54 of the Directors Report.
Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 51 Relations with stakeholders shareholders t Annual kick-off meetings to involve employees in the strategic priorities for the coming year.
Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a greater understanding of and confidence in the medium and longer term strategy t The asklaurence email facility for employees.
of Premier Farnell and in the Boards ability to oversee its implementation.
t Volunteering in local community work and projects.
The Chairman supported by the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on matters relating to Executive t Our annual employee engagement survey.
Director remuneration is primarily responsible for ensuring that the Board t Customer buddy programme, whereby employees choose a customer is accessible to major shareholders and that channels for communication towork closely with.
She also has principal responsibility for ensuring that the Board isaware of any concerns raised by major shareholders and that their t Initiatives such as our Net Promoter Score, a framework enabling us viewsare taken on board.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial tomeasure customer satisfaction and drive customer-focused change Ofceralsohave regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Customer councils, focus groups and Allordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at our surveys to gain customer insight on planned initiatives, receive feedback AGM, where allDirectors are expected to be available to take questions.
and pulse views on our proposition and service.
Allof ourthenDirectors attended our AGM in June 2012 and were t Social media for suppliers and customers, using twitter and facebook availableto shareholders.
Shareholder engagement activities t Maintaining and securing relationships with top suppliers, driving t Our Chairman, the Chairman of our Remuneration Committee and our excellence inoverall supplier management and engagement.
Company Secretary held individual meetings, in person and by phone, with a number of our major shareholders, at which issues such as t Our annual eSupplier summit at which our key suppliers come together strategy, succession planning and Executive remuneration were with leaders from our eCommerce and Innovation teams to review plans discussed.
and proposals for the enhancement of our proposition and to define the key part that our suppliers play in that.
t We have carried out several consultations throughout the year with our major shareholders and institutional representatives, soliciting their views AGM on our proposals on Executive remuneration through face-to-face meetings, phone calls and written correspondence.
We propose separate resolutions for each issue and shareholders are able to vote for or against or withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results t Our Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer held many meetings, both of all proxy voting are published on our website after the meeting.
The together and individually, with investors throughout the year.
Since his notice of AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before appointment as CEO, Laurence Bain has held more than 50 meetings themeeting.
with current and potential investors.
t All Directors attend and have dialogue with our shareholders at our AGM.
Going concern The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely Relations with stakeholders employees, suppliers toaffect its future development and performance: and its objectives and andcustomers policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital We give a high priority to employee communications.
As well as the formal are discussed in the Business Review.
structures, considerable time is given to other forms of employee The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated communication.
economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Premier Farnell also communicates with suppliers and customers, The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group individually and at Group events.
We are very active in our local have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
communities as described in some detail in the Sustainability section For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for oftheBusiness Review on pages 32 to 34. preparing accounts.
Stakeholder engagement activities t Employee briengs conducted by the Chief Executive and other senior Share capital and control management given quarterly in the year under review and ad hoc.
Details are included on pages 52 and 53 of the Directors Report.
t Group-wide Intranet which is accessible to all employees, gives a widerange of Group information, news and the ability to post real timecomments.
