Overview Strategic focus Business review Governance Financial statements Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 37 LEADERSHIP FORUMS Premier Farnell is constantly evolving to bea highly efficient, global organisation Global Executive Team Service Excellence Awards Premier Farnell is constantly evolving to be a highly efficient, global The senior leadership team at Premier Farnell spearhead the Groups quest organisation and the formation of the Global Executive Team GET was to become a high performing company.
As part of this commitment to another step along this path.
The GET was established in July 2012 as a embrace high performance and become an even more customer-focused high level forum of senior leaders to improve accountability, regularly and market leader, every quarter they recognise the outstanding contribution quickly address issues, decide on priorities and assess the progress of ofhigh performing employees who have delivered service excellence to theimplementation of the Groups strategy ensuring a consistent and thebusiness in an extraordinary manner, which has consequently further clearfocus for the organisation.
enhanced the level of service we provide to our customers.
The GET, which meets every two weeks virtually, with one face-to-face Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details of an individual meeting per quarter, comprises the CEO, CFO, Regional Business or team that they feel has gone above and beyond their required duties to Presidents, Group General Counsel, Chief Technology officer, Chief deliver a really high level of service, either internally or externally.
All these Strategy officer and Chief of Supply Chain along with subject matter nominations are then reviewed by the regional senior management team experts based on the committees agenda.
who select which of their regional nominations they believe has delivered exceptional service to the organisation.
Those selected in this regional In addition, senior leaders from around the business, including the GET, process are then sent to the members of the senior leadership team from individual business leaders and functional heads, meet regularly at an around the Group for review.
internal conference to review, research and develop the Groups strategy.
The senior leaders vote for one individual or one team from each category This approach of strong governance in the Groups strategic direction who they feel has exhibited true desire and determination to deliver service ensures that now and in the future we are able to continue to execute excellence in that quarter.
The awards are categorised, with the global anddeliver on the commitments made to our customers, suppliers, winners being recognised for internal customer service excellence, supplier shareholders and employees.
service excellence, customer service excellence or going the extra degree and nally there is a special CEO award.
All of the global winners receive special recognition and an award presented by Laurence Bain.
Inthe event of very tough competition, highly commended awards may bepresented locally by the business leaders.
This year, Premier Farnell recognised 67 individuals and teams from around the globe through its global service excellence awards.
