Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Delegated authorities continued Executive Committee and management structure The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee EXCO to assist him in this role.
Following the expansion of EXCO in 2012, further developments to EXCO made in early 2014 include: The creation of the role of Director, Falkland Islands, in recognition of the importance of the growth and development of this business to the groups success: and The role of Group Development and Operations Manager replaces the previous role of Operations Director.
The responsibilities of EXCO include the development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio management and the delivery of performance against the targets set by the Board.
Delegation of Authority Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of the Business Management System and through an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
This manual was updated in 2013 to reflect changes in the organisational structure of the group.
Board performance evaluation The Board worked with an external facilitator, Wickland Westcott, in 2013 to conduct the annual Board evaluation.
The evaluation process consisted of a written questionnaire and a series of one-to-one interviews with all directors.
In addition, the facilitator attended and observed proceedings at a Board meeting.
The questionnaire and interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, succession planning, Board size and composition, risk management and the relationship between Board and management.
The results of the evaluation were then considered by the Chairman and discussed by the Board as a whole.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the senior independent director, who conducted interviews with all the directors.
The performance of individual non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, was evaluated by the Chairman, with input from the committee chairmen and the other directors.
The performance of the Chief Executive and other executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman and non-executive directors.
Key outcomes from the evaluation included a desire to increase the number of informal meetings of directors throughout the year.
Succession planning for Board and senior executive positions and talent management and capability initiatives were also identified as areas for increased focus going forward.
There is no other connection between Wickland Westcott and the company.
Induction, information and support New directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the company.
This consists of information covering the operations of the Board as well as meetings with the Board, Chief Executive, other executive directors, members of senior management and external advisers.
All non-executives have access to the companys senior management between Board meetings and the Board holds one meeting each year in one of the business units to allow non-executives to meet and engage with local staff.
In addition, the continuing development of Board members is supported through deep dives into specific business areas as well as regular updates on changes to the legal and regulatory landscape.
Directors are also offered the opportunity to attend external training courses to further complement their skills and knowledge.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with new directors upon request or at the next AGM following their appointment.
The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place and details of the policy are given to new directors on appointment.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice at the companys expense where appropriate.
Conflicts of interest A director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the company.
Formal procedures are in place to ensure the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts or potential conflicts of interest of directors are operated effectively.
The Board is satisfied that during 2013 these procedures were enforced and adhered to appropriately.
64 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk management and internal controls in Premier The corporate governance process in Premier is designed to determine the nature and level of risk that the company is willing to take in pursuit of its strategy and to provide an appropriate level of assurance that any risks taken are soundly managed and that the system of internal controls is effective.
Risk management processes and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected.
Business management system Internal controls within Premier are governed by the business management system BMS which has undergone significant technical upgrade during 2013, a process which will continue through 2014.
This system is composed of the policies, standards, procedures, processes and guidelines for every function involved in carrying out Premiers business including Risk, Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES, Corporate Responsibility, Operations, Exploration, Business Development, Finance and other business support services.
Corporate group functional management systems are complemented by local management systems within the business units which are designed to supplement the group management systems with guidance specifically required in order to operate and manage the business under local conditions and in compliance with local laws and regulations.
The BMS is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet our business objectives.
The effectiveness of the BMS is a function of both the adequacy of the system and compliance with the system.
Premiers audit and review programme includes reviews of the adequacy of and compliance with component business unit and functional management systems at appropriate regular intervals.
The annual cycle of monitoring in Premier culminates in the completion of declarations by business unit and functional management confirming compliance with the groups BMS as well as identifying enhancements as part of a continuous process for improving the effectiveness of management systems.
Risk management Premier believes that risk management is just part of good management which leads to quality decision making and achievement of targets for growth of the business.
The risk management process is central to Premiers BMS and the groups management system has been developed in accordance with the risk management principles and guidelines of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines.
The processes developed by the company cover all key elements of ISO 31000: Architecture Strategy Core process Continuous improvement cycle Risk protocols Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 Risk management and internal controls in Premier continued Risk management continued The core process for risk management lies at the heart of the system framework: Establish context Risk Monitor and review assessment Risk treatment This core process is used to manage the spectrum of risks which Premier faces from strategic, geopolitical and other external risks to operational, financial and organisational risk.
The context for risk management is established by development and communication of strategy, growth targets, team performance deliverables and KPIs.
A systematic process for identification and assessment of risk is undertaken across the company business units and functions.
Regular workshops are undertaken with input from independent consultants with specialist knowledge and from dialogue with our partners to assist with risk identification and assessment, and risks are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that new risks or exposures as a result of changes in the business or the business environment are captured.
A standard matrix of impact versus likelihood is used to assess risks at all levels in the organisation.
Appropriate consideration is given to risk dependency and amalgamation of similar specific risks across the organisation.
Risks are categorised according to a scale of Major, Medium, Minor and escalated to the appropriate level.
Risk treatment includes risk acceptance or tolerance and active risk reduction measures.
Risk appetite objectives are defined and action plans are implemented.
Particular attention is given to safety and environmental factors to ensure that residual risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practicable.
The status of risks and progress with risk treatment plans are monitored continuously and reviewed periodically via performance reviews, workshops, audits and risk assessments.
The architecture of the organisation provides the framework for defining the accountability and responsibility for risk identification and management and links the Board and Audit and Risk Committee to the Executive Committee and functional and business unit management structure and enables risks to be escalated and managed at the appropriate level.
The Group Audit, Risk and Public Affairs Manager is responsible for the risk management system and the overall running of the process.
The risk protocols are the policy, procedures and processes documented as part of the risk management system and key tools used in the process.
The Corporate Risk Register is the primary tool for risk management in Premier.
The Register is a webbased tool which is updated at regular intervals.
The Register facilitates recording of functional, business unit and asset project risks, together with their assessment, definition of existing and new treatment plans for control and mitigation and assignment of responsibility at the appropriate level in the organisation.
A cycle of continuous improvement to the risk management system within the organisation is adopted and regularly reviewed with both the Executive Committee via regional and functional performance reviews and the Audit and Risk Committee.
In 2013 Premier ran an  internal survey following on from a similar survey in 2010 with a representative cross-section of senior and middle management employees across the group to better understand how well risk management best practice is embedded through the group.
Through 2014 and beyond, Premier will implement a prioritised improvement plan which resulted from the survey outcomes.
We are also developing a set of risk management KPIs in order to better measure progress.
66 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Risk management and internal controls in Premier continued Audit and review The effective operation of internal control procedures is reviewed by planned audits.
An annual programme of audit and review is agreed between functional and business unit management and approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The programme adopts a risk based focus and includes an audit of management system effectiveness and control as well as targeting key operational, financial and organisational delivery milestones.
During the course of its review of the risk management and internal control systems, the Audit and Risk Committee has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that Premier is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
Significant findings from these reviews are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors the implementation of recommendations for control improvements.
A rolling three-year plan to cover all operations is in place.
In addition, where we are the operator, audits of joint venture operations are carried out by our joint venture partners.
Where one of our partners is the operator, we seek visibility of the most significant risks identified and managed by the joint venture partners.
The business management system, risk management processes and programme of audits and reviews form the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company.
This process has been in place for the year under review.
Up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, it is regularly reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and Board.
This provides the Board with reasonable assurance that appropriate controls are in place to provide effective management of business risks and to safeguard the groups assets from inappropriate use or from loss and fraud.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Half-Yearly Report, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements, all of which are available to shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors through meetings, presentations and conferences, general presentations to analysts and investors for the full-year and half-yearly results which are broadcast live via the companys website as well as other ad hoc investor events.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors primarily responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of these discussions as well as analysts and brokers briefings, and shareholder sentiment reports prepared by the Investor Relations team.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders in the event that they have concerns which contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or where such contact would be inappropriate.
Non-executive directors are expected to attend Investor meetings if requested by major shareholders.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
In accordance with current regulations, the company uses its website as its default method of publication for statutory documents to reduce printing costs and help benefit the environment.
All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the annual report, electronically or in paper format, as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or by post.
The company promotes the use of online shareholder services at www.
On this website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding and to update their address or submit queries on their account directly to the companys Registrar.
Shareholders also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2014 AGM.
The Share Portal encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have actively registered receive an e-mail notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to Pure Leapfrog, a UK charity dedicated to combating climate change.
The company has posted guidelines on its website, advising shareholders of how to recognise and deal with potential share scams.
Shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of any unsolicited advice or offers and to only deal with financial services firms that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority.
More information can be found in the Shareholder Information section of the Investors area of the companys website: www.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 26 February 2014
