56 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Environmental indicators and targets We report our environmental performance in line with the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010 and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Our emissions performance is benchmarked against an industry database compiled and published by the OGP.
As an oil and gas company with production facilities in the North Sea, we comply with the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme and submit an annual, externally verified report on our emissions profile to the United Kingdom Department of Energy and Climate Change.
We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
In 2013, we achieved a carbon disclosure score of 66 out of 100 2012: 66, which is broadly equivalent to the median average achieved by other FTSE listed oil and gas companies.
Key environmental parameters and indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Greenhouse gas intensity tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 288 242 305 185 Oil spills tonnes 0.1 0.8 2.7 1.3 Oil in produced water parts per million 11 10 14 11 Energy use gigajoules per tonne of production 1.9 2.0 2.6 2.1 Note: Environmental data relates to Premier operations only and does not include non-operated joint ventures Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrocarbon combustion at Premier-operated facilities amounted to 958,566 tonnes in 2013 2012: 890,809 tonnes.
This increase in total emissions was largely due to unexpected flaring at Chim So and its associated offshore production, storage and offloading facility.
Premiers operated emissions intensity increased from 242 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production in 2012 to 288 tonnes in 2013.
Our Anoa and Gajah Baru sites in Indonesia delivered strong performances in terms of decreased emissions, with an average intensity of 165 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2012: 175 tonnes and 104 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2012: 119 tonnes respectively.
Nevertheless, our total greenhouse gas intensity exceeded the OGP industry median 160 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production, mainly due to Chim So.
As well as monitoring greenhouse gas emissions from our operated assets, we calculate emissions on an equity basis for production across our global portfolio.
Greenhouse gas intensity from flaring and fuel gas combustion associated with our full equity portfolio amounted to 214 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2012: 170 tonnes.
In 2013, energy consumption at our head office in London was approximately 297,533 kilowatt hours equivalent to 1.1 gigajoules, GJ.
This was significantly less than five per cent of the groups total energy consumption during 2013, which totalled approximately 6,349,108 GJ.
Spills and discharges The total volume of produced water discharged from our operations in 2013 amounted to 2,262,998 tonnes 2012: 3,905,611 tonnes.
The average oil in produced water increased slightly from 10 parts per million weight ppm-wt in 2012 to 11 ppm-wt in 2013.
In 2013, there were 12 spills to the environment 2012: 13 spills, five of which were hydrocarbon spills 2012: 11 spills and seven of which were chemical spills 2012: two spills.
None of the hydrocarbon spills was over one barrel bbl of oil.
The total volume of hydrocarbon spills amounted to 0.1 tonnes 2012: 0.8 tonnes : all these spills were associated with our production operations.
The seven chemical spills totalled 5.0 bbls or 0.7 tonnes 2012: 0.02 bbls or 0.002 tonnes.
We maintain oil spill contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the unlikely event of a major incident.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Community investment PREMIER RECOGNISES THAT OUR WIDER SOCIAL LICENCE TO OPERATE AS AN INTERNATIONAL OIL AND GAS COMPANY MUST BE EARNED THROUGH BEHAVIOUR WHICH DOES NOT COMPROMISE THE WELLBEING OF CURRENT OR FUTURE GENERATIONS.
THIS RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR IS A KEY DETERMINANT OF OUR LONG-TERM BUSINESS SUCCESS.
As a responsible investor, we recognise the value of building positive external relationships and partnerships with communities, governments, non-governmental organisations, joint venture partners and other stakeholders.
Our Community Investment Policy has been benchmarked against best practice standards and our peers in the oil and gas sector.
It includes requirements to: maintain timely, constructive and transparent ongoing engagement with all stakeholders: treat neighbours with respect and understanding, acknowledging community governance and seeking free and informed consent prior to initiating operations that have a potentially significant social impact on the community: work to achieve a net positive socio-economic impact on local communities, promoting opportunities which enhance sustainable benefit: support the socio-economic sustainability and wellbeing of communities through local procurement and other engagement with local business: invest in well-planned social projects that support the development priorities of host communities and governments, and seek to ensure that these are implemented in a way that leads to enduring benefit: provide fair and adequate compensation for any losses for which we are liable: provide local communities access to appropriate grievance mechanisms: and encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy.
Our Community Investment Policy is supported by a community investment management system which is aligned with IPIECA standards and which facilitates the systematic identification, management, evaluation and budgeting of disbursements and engagements in host countries.
The procedures in this system have been available to local business units via the Premier Oil Business Management System since late 2010.
No incidents of non-compliance with this policy were reported in 2013.
Increased community investment in 2013 All our operations are supported by local community engagement and development programmes.
In 2013, Premier disbursed a total of US$1,154,000 on charitable donations and community projects, an increase of 71 per cent on the amount disbursed in 2012.
The significant expansion of our community investment reflects an increase in charitable donations from our London, Indonesia and Vietnam offices, as well as the inclusion of non-operated joint venture community projects in Pakistan.
By order of the Board S C Lockett Chief Executive 26 February 2014 58 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements BOARD OF DIRECTORS Robin Allan 54 Anne Marie Cannon 56 I Joe Darby 65 I, A, R, N Director, Business Units Non-executive Director Senior Independent non-executive Director Board tenure: 10 years 2 months Board tenure: 1 month Board tenure: 6 years 5 months Joined Premier in July 1986 Joined Premier on 1 February 2014 as a Joined Premiers Board as non-executive non-executive director Committee director in 2007 and is the Senior Joined the Board in 2003 as Director of Business membership to be confirmed in due course Independent non-executive director Development before appointed Director Asia in 2009 30 years experience in the energy and 40 years of experience in energy sector, banking sectors, including roles at Shell UK, including Chief Executive of LASMO plc, Returned to London in 2012 to take up role as J. Henry Schroder Wagg and British Borneo non-executive directorships at Nordaq Director, Business Units Energy plc, British Nuclear Fuels plc, Previously a Senior Advisor to the Natural Mowlem plc, Faroe Petroleum plc and Resources Group at Morgan Stanley Centurion Energy, Inc focusing on upstream mergers and acquisitions Currently non-executive director of Alkane Energy plc and Gulfsands Petroleum plc Currently Deputy Chair of the Board of Det Norske Oljeselskap David Lindsell 66 I, A, R, N Simon Lockett 49 N Andrew Lodge 57 Non-executive Director Chief Executive Exploration Director Board tenure: 6 years 1 month Board tenure: 10 years 2 months Board tenure: 4 years 10 months Joined Premiers Board in January 2008 Joined Premier in January 1994 Joined Premier in April 2009 as Exploration as a non-executive director Director Joined Premiers Board in December 2003 Chairman of Premiers Audit and Risk as Operations Director before being Previously Vice President Exploration at Committee appointed Chief Executive in March 2005 Hess, responsible for Europe, North Africa, Asia and Australasia Partner at Ernst & Young LLP for nearly 30 years, Deputy Chairman of the Financial Prior to Hess, worked at BHP Petroleum, Reporting Review Panel, 2008-2012 and BP Currently non-executive director of Drax Currently a non-executive director of Group plc and Hellermanntyton Group plc Egdon Resources plc Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 Tony Durrant 55 Neil Hawkings 52 Jane Hinkley 63 I, R, N Finance Director Director, Falkland Islands Non-executive Director Board tenure: 8 years 7 months Board tenure: 7 years 11 months Board tenure: 3 years 5 months Joined Premier in June 2005, becoming Joined Premier in May 2005, after more than Joined Premiers Board in September 2010 Finance Director in July 2005 20 years with ConocoPhillips, working in a as a non-executive director variety of engineering, commercial and Qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Chairman of Premiers Remuneration management roles around the world Arthur Andersen, joining the investment Committee banking division of Lehman Brothers in Joined Premiers Board in March 2006 Qualified Chartered Accountant with 1987, going on to become a Managing as Operations Director, and appointed executive experience primarily in Director and Head of the European Natural Director, Falkland Islands in January 2014 international shipping Resources Group Previously held roles with Navion Shipping Non-executive director and chairman of AS, Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corporation the audit & risk committee of Greenergy and Revus Energy ASA Fuels Holdings Ltd Currently non-executive director of Vesuvius plc, and an independent director on board of Teekay GP LLC Independent I Committee Membership Audit and Risk A Remuneration R Nomination N Michel Romieu 74 I, A, N Mike Welton 67 Independent on appointment, N Non-executive Director Chairman Board tenure: 6 years 1 month Board tenure: 4 years 8 months Joined Premiers Board as non-executive Joined Premiers Board in June 2009 as director in January 2008 a non-executive director and became Chairman in October 2009 Over 35 years of experience in the international energy sector, including Chairman of the Nomination Committee 25 years with the Elf Group Currently a director of Morrison Utility Established own consultancy specialising Services and High Speed Two, a government in providing advice to gas industry, is a owned LLC lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute Sits on the advisory board of Montrose Currently President of Uprigaz Associates and Alexander Proudfoot Previously Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc, and Chairman of Southern Water Services Ltd, Hanson plc, the Turkish British Business Council and the UK Governments Railway Sector Advisory Group 60 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement from the Chairman Your Board is committed to the highest standards of stewardship and governance and aims to create a culture which demands the same commitment and performance in all our business activities.
Good governance provides a framework that allows the right decisions to be taken by the right people at the right time.
The information provided below will help you to understand how the Board has run the company, managed risks, monitored control, and describe how decisions have been taken.
During the year I led the review of our Boards effectiveness in conjunction with an external facilitator and am pleased to report below on the outcome and related actions arising from the review.
Mike Welton, Chairman This report describes the manner in which the company has applied the main principles of governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code of September 2012 and complied with the Code provisions.
It is the Boards view that the company has fully complied with the Code throughout 2013 save for with respect to provision B.
1.2 which stipulates that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Subsequent to the unexpected death of Professor David Roberts in July 2013, this requirement of the Code has not been met by the company.
However, with the appointment of Anne Marie Cannon to the Board on 1 February 2014 the company is now in compliance with respect to this provision of the Code.
While the Board supports the value of the Code, it does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The Board is committed to high standards of stewardship and governance and aims to create a culture which demands the same commitment and performance in all our business activities.
This is enshrined in our Code of Conduct which was updated and rolled out to our employees in 2011.
The Board The role of the Board The Board sets the companys strategic objectives and ensures that they are properly pursued and that major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders at the heart of the Boards decision-making.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditures, the overall group debt and equity structure and consideration of significant financing matters.
The Board continued to focus its efforts in 2013 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and planning future business opportunities.
Board composition As at 31 December 2013 the Board of Directors was comprised of the Chairman, Chief Executive, four other executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
On 1 February 2014 Anne Marie Cannon joined the Board as an independent non-executive director.
David Bamford is expected to join the Board as an independent non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2014.
Biographical details of each director in service as at 26 February 2014, including membership of Board committees, are set out in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as well as in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Code, all directors stand for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Biographical details for David Bamford, who will also be standing for election at the Annual General Meeting, are included in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Policy Report of the Directors Remuneration Report.
B Bo oa ar rd d c co om mp po os siit tiio on n Length of tenur Length of tenure e B Bo oa ar rd d e ex xp pe erienc rience e O Oiill & & G & Gas N No on n n- -e ex xecutive 9% 9% 9% E En ne er rg gy y 3 ye 3 y yea ars c ch ha aiirm rman 36% Exec Exec cu ut tive 3 - 6 ye 3 - 6 ye 6 years F Fiin na a an nc ce 45% 27% d diir re ecto ctors 46% 64% N No on n n- -e ex xecutive 55% Oth Othe e er in r industry 7 - 10 ye 7 - 10 y 0 y ars d diir re ecto ctors a as s a at t 2 26 6 Februa Februar ry y 2 20 01 14 4 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 The Board continued Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This is effected through meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the business, developing strategy in consultation with the Board and then executing it.
Non-executive Directors The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy and resource, including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the performance of executive management and to monitor the performance of the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives and targets.
In meeting this responsibility, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present, and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
We require that our non-executive directors are free from any relationship or circumstances that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers each of the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years subject to annual re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director.
The terms and conditions of their appointment are made available for inspection.
Letters of appointment set out an expected time commitment, and all non-executive directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively and any significant other business commitments are disclosed to the Board prior to appointment.
Changes to such commitments are disclosed to the Board on an ongoing basis.
Where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors, directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys expense.
Senior Independent Director Joe Darby is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
He is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors.
Appointments and development Premier is an international business that has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board has the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
To this end, the Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as to any adjustments that are deemed necessary with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
In selecting new directors, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Details of the Board appointment process are contained within the Nomination Committee report.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
The Company Secretary also plays a pivotal role in facilitating the induction of new directors and assisting with the ongoing training and development needs of Board members as required.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
62 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued How the Board operates The Board meets at least six times each year and in addition a regular update conference call takes place in the months when no formal meeting is scheduled.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on progress against objectives and the management of business risks.
A formal schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board can be found on the companys website www.
The schedule is reviewed by the Board regularly.
Key matters reserved for the Board are the consideration and approval of: Corporate strategy Overall direction and strategy of the business New country and or business entry Acquisition or disposal of interests Finance Group debt and equity structure Budget Expenditure Major capital expenditure and budgets Development plans and projects Major acquisition Risk management Recognising high impact business risks and risk mitigating strategies Internal control systems in respect of finance, operations and Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES Corporate governance The groups corporate governance and compliance arrangements Succession planning Appointment and removal of directors and officers of the Board and appointments Appointment and removal of external auditor, brokers and advisers to the company Delegated authorities Board committees The Board has established Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference approved by the Board which can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary.
The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2013, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 846 2 Attendance: R A Allan 8 J Darby 846 1 A R C Durrant 8 N Hawkings 8 I J Hinkley 8 6 2 D C Lindsell 845 2 S C Lockett 8 2 A G Lodge 8 2 Professor D G Roberts 2 2 M Romieu 74 2 M W Welton 7 2 Notes: 1.
There were five scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
One meeting was additionally called attended only by Ms I J Hinkley and Mr J Darby.
Professor D G Roberts died on 4 July 2013.
