70 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued External audit continued Auditor independence and objectivity The Committee regularly reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditor and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditor, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditor against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit engagement partner.
The Committee believes that certain non-audit work may be carried out by the external auditor without compromising its independence and objectivity.
The allocation of non-audit work is considered by reference to the companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, which can be found on the companys website.
The use of the external auditor for services relating to accounting systems or the preparation of financial statements is not permitted, and neither are various other services, such as valuation work, which could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards.
The Committee believes that there is non-audit work such as certain assurance and advisory services that may be best performed by the auditor as a result of its unique knowledge of the company.
Any material non-audit work of this nature requires approval by the Committee.
The Committee approves the fees for the external audit and half-yearly review after reviewing the scope of work to be performed, and reviews the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditor to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity.
Details of audit and non-audit fees in the current year are provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, the auditor complies with the Ethical Standards for Auditors issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2013.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards for Auditors, the audit engagement partner rotates at least every five years.
The current audit engagement partner has been in the role for two years.
External audit appointment The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year.
Based on its review of the effectiveness of the 2013 audit and of the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee concluded that the auditors effectiveness and independence has not been impaired in any way.
The Committee has reported accordingly to the Board and recommended that the reappointment of Deloitte be proposed to shareholders for the year ending 31 December 2014.
Deloitte were initially appointed external auditor of the company in 2004 and the audit has not been put out to tender since that date.
The rules governing audit appointments have recently been in a considerable state of flux.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 introduced a provision requiring FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, or to explain why they have not done so.
Under transitional arrangements published by the Financial Reporting Council, a company that has put the audit contract out to tender or changed audit firm in or after 2000 may defer the tender process.
On this basis, the company would be able to defer an audit tender for a number of years.
However, the Competition Commission has since announced that the requirement to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years will be made mandatory by means of an Order from 2014 and the associated transitional provisions reduce the deferral period as they apply to us, to no later than the year ending 31 December 2018.
Finally, European Union rules, are also close to finalisation and look likely to require auditor rotation every ten years, which individual Member States can extend to twenty years subject to a tender process at the mid-point of this cycle.
The Audit and Risk Committee will consider the likely timing of an audit tender process once the details of these impending requirements are clear.
Committee evaluation The performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process and the Committee also carried out a detailed self-assessment.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
By order of the Board D C Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 26 February 2014 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 COMPANY RISK FACTORS Premiers business may be impacted by various risks leading to failure to achieve strategic targets for growth, loss of financial standing, cash flow and earnings, and reputation.
Not all of these risks are wholly within the companys control and the company may be affected by risks which are not yet manifest or reasonably foreseeable.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our personnel, assets, the communities where we operate and with whom we interact and our reputation.
Premier therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk management as set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
Risk severity matrices are developed across Premiers business to facilitate assessment of risk.
The specific risks identified by project and asset teams, business units and corporate functions are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level from operations through business unit management to the Executive Committee and the Board.
For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to take or tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations.
Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics non-compliance, and ensures that HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis.
The key risk factors identified from this approach are represented in the matrix below which highlights and justifies significant movements since the previous reporting period and the accompanying table summarises their potential impacts and our approach to managing them.
The assessment of the impact and likelihood takes into account the risk mitigation measures currently applied.
Likelihood Rare Low Medium High Not significant 2 Political Low and fiscal 2012 3 Exploration Commodity Medium price volatility Organisation 4 Financial capability Production and discipline and development Political and governance 1 delivery Joint fiscal High venture partner Exploration alignment 2012 HSES Extreme Explanation of Risk Factor Movements compared with 2012 Annual Report: 1 Exploration: Exploration success in 2013 has reduced Likelihood.
2014 activity includes a number of potentially high-impact wells and further in the future Sea Lion, Iraq, Brazil and Kenya licences could be transformational.
2 Political and Fiscal: With the bare-boat tax proposals in the 2013 Chancellors Autumn Statement, UK has confirmed its reputation as one of the more volatile fiscal environments.
Significant political instability often violent in an increasing number of the countries of operational interest.
Increasing resource nationalism in others.
Growing Chinese assertiveness within South China Sea increases risk of stumbling into open conflict and disruption.
3 Commodity price volatility: US shale oil production increases likelihood of global oil price drop in 2014.
Middle East, Ukraine Maghreb and sub-Saharan political instability potentially violent brings supply-side risks.
Uncertain trajectory of Chinese economy increases demand-side volatility.
4 Production and development delivery: Impact has increased because cash flow from current and future production finances a number of future developments.
The operation of ageing assets and mature fields in the UKCS in particular remains challenging.
