Risks and uncertainties Understanding and managing our risks Considerable progress has been made in the last year to improve The Group risk register considers: the effectiveness of QinetiQs risk management processes.
This The authority, resources and coordination of those involved in has included greater clarification regarding the Boards risk appetite the identification, assessment and management of the significant specifically linked to the Companys growth agenda and our risks the organisation faces: Organic-Plus strategy.
The response to the significant risks which have been identified With the change of the Compliance Committee to the Risk & CSR by management and others: Committee and its focus on risks where the primary impact is The monitoring of reports from Group management: and non-financial, the Audit Committee retains a focus on purely financial risks.
The differentiation between pure financial and non-financial risk The maintenance of a control environment directed towards has aided both the Executive and Board risk review process, allowing the proper management of risk.
for greater focus on the effectiveness of relevant mitigations.
The Group risk register is reviewed by the Executive and the Board Risks continue to be assessed according to the likelihood of an and, in addition, the risk owners present an update of current status events occurrence and its impact.
The Group risk register includes and mitigating actions by rotation throughout the year.
an analysis of the potential exposures and severity of each risk as a function of its likelihood and impact, the assumptions underlying each risk and the mitigation required to manage it.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation Defence The financial burden on both UK and US government Our focus on a range of markets in aerospace, defence, market budgets from the current economic downturn and the security and intelligence provides a degree of portfolio requirement to reduce budget deficits will lead to reduced diversification.
The Group will continue to review trends spending in the markets in which the Group operates.
in defence, aerospace and security expenditure in order In particular, the UK is reducing its defence budget by 8% to align the business with those trends.
in real terms by 2015 and, in addition, is seeking to remove Whilst UK government expenditure remains under significant overheating in its equipment programme.
pressure the MOD has made considerable progress in In the US, sequestration was enacted on 1 March 2013 balancing its budget.
In defence research, where QinetiQ and government departments are working through its is the private sector market leader, spending has been impact on levels of expenditure and future project stabilised at about 390m pa until 2015. priorities.
Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Current plans of both US and UK governments are The Group manages this by maintaining a market focus to drawdown troops from Afghanistan by the end and competitive positioning in adjacent markets, of 2014.
A significant shift in policy by either the US including defence services which are not directly Administration or the UK Government, which resulted conflict-related, aerospace, space, security and in a significant reduction in the number of forces intelligence, which provides a degree of portfolio personnel present in Afghanistan, or a change in diversification.
The Group is also seeking to increase the timing, may have a materially adverse impact its portfolio of products and to find new markets on the Groups financial performance.
and applications for its existing offerings.
The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets competitive.
The Groups financial performance may in which its deep customer understanding, domain be adversely affected should it not be able to compete knowledge, technical expertise and platform in the markets in which it aims to operate.
independence provide a strong proposition and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
Government customers seek to prevent Organisational QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential Conflicts of Interest OCI occurring where the companies OCI and to maintain its ability to provide independent provide solutions as part of the defence supply chain and advice through its consulting and systems engineering consultancy services as a technical advisor.
A formal compliance regime operates in the UK with the MOD.
In March 2012, QinetiQ agreed with the MOD that it could adopt the generic compliance regime in use with other companies, replacing a QinetiQ-specific one.
This change will not affect the rigour of the compliance process.
30QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Potential impact Mitigation Contract A material element of the Groups revenue is derived In February 2013, the Group successfully completed the profile from one contract.
The Long-Term Partnering Agreement five-yearly periodic review of the LTPA, agreeing terms LTPA is a 25-year contract to provide a variety of with the MOD for the provision of core test, evaluation evaluation, testing and training services to the MOD.
and training support services through to March 2018.
The original contract was signed in 2003.
The LTPA operates The Group continues to achieve customer performance under five-year periods with specific programmes, targets and satisfaction levels, and significantly exceeded the and performance measures set for each period.
In the agreed minimum performance rating of 80% in 2012. current year, the LTPA directly contributed 14% of the While achieving the performance scores, the Group Groups revenue and supported a further 8% through has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD on tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
cancellation or termination of, or significant reduction in, this contract would have a material, adverse impact on the Groups future reported performance.
The amounts payable under some government contracts The contract and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed can be significant and the timing of the receipt of orders by senior operational management.
could have a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period.
Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts The nature of many of the services provided under such that have a fixed price.
There is a risk that the costs fixed-price arrangements is often for a defined amount required for the delivery of a contract could be higher of effort or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as than those agreed in the contract, as a result of the a result, mitigates the risk of costs escalating.
The Group performance of new or developed products, operational ensures that its fixed-price bids and projects are reviewed over-runs or external factors, such as inflation.
Any for early detection and management of issues which may significant increase in costs which cannot be passed on to result in cost over-run.
a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss-making.
Pension The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme Pension scheme performance is reviewed regularly by scheme in the UK.
There is currently a deficit between the Group management, in conjunction with the schemes projected liability of the scheme and the value of the independent trustees.
External actuarial and investment assets it holds.
The size of the deficit may be materially advice is also taken on a regular basis to ensure that the affected by a number of factors, including inflation, scheme is managed in the best interests of both the investment returns, changes in interest rates, and Group and the schemes members.
The most recent improvements in life expectancy.
An increase in the triennial funding valuation of the scheme, as at 30 June deficit may require the Group to increase the cash 2011, resulted in a deficit of 74.7m.
contributions to the scheme, which would reduce The Group and trustees have agreed a package of the Groups cash available for other purposes.
measures to enhance the security of the scheme, including deficit recovery payments over six years, the use of CPI rather than RPI for indexation purposes, and an asset-backed funding programme.
The next funding valuation of the scheme is at 30 June 2014.
The Group and the Trustees continue to work on the fide-risking of the liability profile of the scheme.
US foreign In the US, the Group undertakes work that is deemed The Group has procedures in place to ensure that these ownership to be of importance to US national security and is arrangements remain effective and to respond to any regulations therefore subject to foreign ownership regulations.
changes that might occur in US attitudes to foreign Arrangements are in place to insulate these activities ownership of such activities.
This section entitled from undue foreign influence as a result of foreign Management and control of US subsidiaries on page 45 ownership.
Failure to comply with the regulations could of this report provides details of the proxy agreement result in sanctions, and suspension or debarment from between QinetiQ North America and the US DoD, that government contracts, as well as reputational damage regulates the ownership, management and operation to the QinetiQ brand.
of QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201331 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Mitigation Significant The Group operates in highly-regulated environments The Group has procedures and, where appropriate, breach of and is subject to numerous domestic and international training in place to ensure that it meets all current relevant laws.
The Group recognises that its operations have the regulations.
Together, these ensure the Group manages laws and potential to have an impact on a variety of stakeholders corporately and at local business level, the effective regulations and that failure to comply with particular regulations identification, measurement, and control of regulatory could result in a combination of fines, penalties, civil risk.
Local management continuously monitors local or criminal prosecution, and suspension or debarment laws and regulations, and policies are in place for the from Government contracts, as well as reputational appointment of advisors to support business development.
damage to the QinetiQ brand.
Professional advice is sought when engaging in new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local and international regulations and requirements.
Key areas of focus for the organisation include: Safety liability from failure of a product, service Robust training, policy and processes exist to ensure or advice as well as workplace health, safety and the safety of products, services and advice and to environmental matters.
protect employees and others affected by QinetiQ operations.
Recent successes include external accreditation of our Safety Management System and continuing authorisations for regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation arena page 34.
QinetiQ also undertakes human factor and behavioural safety training to embed its safety culture.
Bribery and Ethics The QinetiQ Code of Conduct outlines a strong stance on anti-bribery supported by annual training of all employees, procedures and systems for managing international business, payments to commercial intermediaries, gifts and hospitality.
Performance was reviewed externally and benchmarked against others in this sector page 34.
US Proxy Regime Procedures are in place to ensure that these regulations are adhered to, specifically with regard to communication with staff at QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries.
Compliance data is maintained and monitored by the Executive and Board.
International Trade Controls Ongoing compliance has been supported by a programme to improve QinetiQs handling of legacy materials as well as to improve our systems and processes for the handling and management of new materials and electronic data.
Investment in this area supports our plans for growth in the international arena as well as building confidence in how we manage existing regulatory requirements.
Tax legislation QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which External advice and consultation are sought on potential it operates, principally in the UK and the US.
Changes changes in tax legislation in both the UK and the US.
This in the tax legislation in these countries could have an enables the Group to plan for and mitigate potential adverse impact on the level of tax paid on the profits changes in legislation.
The Group is currently actively engaging with HM Treasury on the proposal to move R&D tax credits out of the tax charge and above the line into operating profit.
Legislation has been published in the UK which, subject to Royal Assent, will bring a mandatory above the line approach from 1 April 2016.
This could increase the Groups effective tax rate over time towards a blend of the US and UK corporation tax rates.
The Group has 202.7m of tax losses carried forward as at 31 March 2013 2012: 200.0m.
32QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Risk Potential impact Mitigation Breaches of The Group operates in a highly-regulated information Information systems are designed with consideration data security technology environment.
The data held by QinetiQ is of single points of failure and the removal of risk through and failure of highly confidential and needs to be totally secure, minor and major system failures.
The business maintains IT systems particularly against a background of increasing business continuity plans that cover both geography, cyber threat.
A failure of systems could have an e. g. sites and business units, and the technical capability impact on contract delivery leading to a loss of customer of staff.
These plans cover a range of scenarios, including satisfaction.
loss of access to information technology systems.
The plans are tested at appropriate intervals.
Data A breach of data security could have an impact on our security is assured through a multi-layered approach customers operations and have a significant reputational that provides a hardened environment, including robust impact, as well as lead to the possibility of exclusion from physical security arrangements, data resilience strategies some types of government contracts, with a detrimental and the application of security technologies, as well as impact on the Groups financial performance.
comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities.
In addition, the systems are monitored and managed on a 24 7 basis.
The Groups financial systems are required to be A significant amount of effort is invested in engaging adequate to support US and UK government contracting with US and UK government contracting audit agencies regulations.
to enable them to test and opine on relevant financial systems and data, and on implementing any recommended improvement plans.
Working in a QinetiQ operates internationally.
The risks associated While the core activities of the Group are confined to the global market with having a large geographic footprint may include: UK and the US, it continues to explore potential customer place regulation and administration changes, changes in relationships across the globe.
These new relationships taxation policy, political instability, civil unrest, and are assessed for their inherent risks, using our differences in culture and terms of reference, leading International Business Opportunity Management to a lack of common understanding with customers.
process before being formally entered into.
Any such events could disrupt some of the Groups operations and have a material impact on its future financial performance.
The Group is exposed to volatility in exchange rates The Group actively hedges all significant transactional as a result of the international nature of its operations.
foreign exchange exposure, as described in the notes This includes a translational impact on the key financial to the financial statements, and has adopted hedge statements as a result of the Group reporting its financial accounting.
The Groups objective is to reduce mediumresults in sterling.
The Group has limited transaction term volatility to cash flow, margins and earnings.
exposure as its revenue and related costs are often borne The Group protects its balance sheets and reserves in the same currency, principally US dollars or sterling.
from adverse foreign exchange movements by financing Of the Groups total revenue, approximately 45% is acquisitions in North America with US dollar-denominated contracted in sterling, 50% in US dollars and 5% in borrowings, thereby partially mitigating the risk as US other currencies.
dollar earnings are used to service and repay US dollardenominated debt.
The Group relies on the proper functioning of the credit The Group maintains a prudent level of committed markets which could have an impact on both the funding facilities: a five-year multi-currency facility availability and associated costs of financing.
The Group totalling 282.8m was provided by its relationship banks is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent borrowings and signed in 2011.
The Group are issued at floating interest rates.
also uses fixed-rate debt instruments issued to US private placement investors with maturity dates up to 2019.
Recruitment & QinetiQ operates in many specialised engineering, The Group conducts regular activity to identify key roles retention technical and scientific domains.
There is a risk that key and personnel.
Succession plans are in place looking capabilities and competencies are lost through failure to internally at suitable candidates ready now or in need recruit and retain employees within the organisation due of development to fill particular roles as well as external to internal factors as well as across the sector due to activity to identify talent in industry the organisation macro factors affecting the desirability, intake and may wish to attract.
training of engineers, scientists and technologists.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201333 Corporate responsibility and sustainability review Meeting stakeholder expectations Employee involvement Managing risk, protecting Safety, health and wellbeing The safety, health and wellbeing of our people remains a priority our reputation and operating with a continuous focus on driving down accidents by providing training, raising awareness of safe working practice and improved responsibly and safely are reporting.
QinetiQs UK occupational safety record continues to be strong: for example, the UK RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases key priorities.
and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations rate for 2013 is 1.90 Leo Quinn, CEO per 1,000 employees which is well below the Health and Safety Executive all industries benchmark of 4.46 per 1,000 employees.
There were no prosecutions or prohibition or improvement notices Governance and strategy issued by regulators during year.
The Group Risk & CSR Committee page 47 of this report meets Meeting our 2013 objective, our UK health and safety management regularly and receives reports on ethics, environment, health and system was certified to OHSAS 18001 supported by initiatives such safety and broader corporate responsibility and sustainability as the QinetiQ Visible Active Leadership campaign, focusing on issues.
In the US, the QNA Board oversees these activities, safety culture and behaviour and the Actions Speak Louder Than obtaining independent assurance on the adequacy of its Words programme, empowering employees to take action and be compliance programmes on an ongoing basis.
Key policies and management systems underpin our corporate responsibility programmes.
In the UK these include our environmental We are delighted that our UK management system certified to ISO 14001, and our health and safety management system certified to OHSAS 18001.
In the UK, a business safety management system has assurance tool assists the assurance and monitoring process.
Our US business has established policies, procedures and programmes in been certified to OHSAS 18001, place to ensure compliance with US federal labour, environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations.
QNA has ISO meeting our 2013 objective.
9001:2008 and ISO 9001:AS9100 certified at three key sites.
In our US operations, health and safety training is focused on In accordance with our corporate responsibility strategy, we aim to empowering employees to operate safely.
We have rolled out five continue to embed our programmes such that how we do business specialist courses in health and safety within Technology Solutions.
aligns with stakeholders expectations of responsible business.
New Additionally on our NASA contracts we have 980 employees trained initiatives that are designed to help us continuously improve our in the NASA Voluntary Protection Program and 40 NASA Area Safety performance are also regularly introduced.
Meaningful stakeholder engagement We seek to engage with key stakeholders to help shape our strategy Lost time incidents per 1,000 employees 2013 2012 and priorities.
We regularly engage with investors directly and QinetiQ Group excluding QNA 5.36 5.53 provide information to relevant ratings agencies.
We have a regular QNA 1.45 1.12 dialogue with the MOD on sustainability.
Employees are informed and involved in programmes through a range of channels such as QinetiQ Group 3.70 3.55 the UK Employee Engagement Group as well as regular townhalls and employee surveys.
It is important to the Company that we support our employees in their health and wellbeing.
In the US, the Vitality Wellness Program Pursuing high ethical standards introduced in 2011 as part of the existing Health in Motion initiative, The Groups Code of Conduct provides clear guidance on ethical supports employees and their families.
Programme incentives standards and guides employee behaviour in business activities.
include reduced health insurance premiums, prizes for attaining Annual business ethics training is mandatory for all employees and point levels and discounts on health clubs and equipment.
We also run additional training for those in higher of employees who participate in Company medical insurance are risk roles.
Our Chief Ethics Officers are senior executives.
Risk engaged in the programme.
The UK Wellbeing Programme provides management is embedded in business processes and we use practical help and assistance on a wide range of personal and third parties for due diligence, where appropriate.
work-related issues, including the provision of a confidential resource for support and information.
In the UK, employees have access to a competitive range of employee benefits through QinetiQ Benefits, a flexible benefits package.
Two QNA incidents have been reclassified and so 2012 LTI for QNA and for Group are slightly lower than reported last year.
34QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Safety objectives and performance 2013 objectives Progress and achievements Status 2014 objective Reduction in reportable UK We continue to work towards Ongoing Reduction in reportable UK incidents incidents to zero by 2014 zero reportable incidents by by 2014.
2014 Attainment of OHSAS 18001 in We have attained OHSAS 18001 Achieved the UK by 2013 certification in the UK Future plans for engagement in the US business include employee Case study: Safety stop focus groups.
Senior leaders from across the Group met at the annual QinetiQ Leadership conference in April this year.
On 20 July the employees in QinetiQs Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses stopped their daily activities and dedicated The Company operates the My Contribution programme which two hours to focus on the topic of safety.
The event was enables employees to actively take part in business improvement.
designed to signal that safety comes first.
As part of the Safety People Who Know How Stop employees, together with some of our customers, At QinetiQ, we aim to grow sustainable earnings and to increase discussed safety issues and how to improve safety further.
It is our People Who Know How, The feedback generated over 800 safety ideas, many of which who will give QinetiQ its competitive advantage and consistently have been taken forward into daily operation.
To ensure we increase our capability, QinetiQ UK is building a foundation for the future in Learning and People Development, providing our employees with Safety of products, services and advice the tools and opportunities to drive their own career, maximise Whether providing traditional products, specialist advice or other potential and knowledge share.
Performance will be supported services, delivering safely underpins our offering to customers.
through development toolkits, increased online learning capability In recent years QinetiQ has invested heavily to attract and maintain and bespoke programmes delivered in house and by award winning competent engineers, technologists and scientists with specialist suppliers.
Our people agenda demonstrates QinetiQs commitment safety expertise.
In the UK, Technical Assurance and Independent to offer development to all employees.
Design Review have been fully integrated into our day-to-day business delivery processes.
Improvements continue to be driven We have increased the number of UK apprenticeships and, as well by our Engineering and Technical Leadership Team, supported by as the traditional subjects such as aeronautical engineering that independent assurance activity.
In addition to maintaining and we have been offering at our apprentice school for over 40 years, developing its design and maintenance accreditations for safety we have included new apprenticeships in areas such as facilities critical work, through various committees and working groups, management.
QinetiQ actively supports collaborative working with its main UK customer, MOD, and other industry organisations to develop and implement common safety standards and practices.
Our US business continues to use technical excellence to improve the safety and usability of their products and as a critical component in delivering support services in unique and safety critical environments for the Department of Defence and NASA.
Involving our people An independent UK annual employee engagement survey had a response rate of 74%.
Action planning is taking place at a divisional level to build on successes and address areas for improvement.
The UK Employee Engagement Group EEG comprises 40 representatives at local and national level, elected by employees to improve engagement and act as a consultative body on developments within the Company.
In the last year the EEG has become established and played an active role in monitoring and feeding back on employee views, with consultation on topics such as pay, pensions and employee wellbeing.
In the US an employee survey response rate of 63% was achieved.
For every employee submission, QNA made a charitable donation to the Fisher House Foundation, which helps veterans and their families with housing Sam Prichard, Apprentice left, receiving an award for Mechanical Apprentice and medical requirements, resulting in a total donation of $13,000.
of the Year from Gaz Borland, MD Air.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201335 Corporate responsibility and sustainability review continued Case study : My Contribution Energy Saving My Contribution offers QinetiQ employees the opportunity to get involved in business improvement, both in terms of making suggestions and being empowered to put them into action.
This years My Contribution Quick Win of the Year was awarded to Norman Terrill, Advisor Shore Integration Facility, based at Portsdown Technology Park, whose achievements were recognised at the 2013 My Contribution Showcase.
Norman identified a number of improvements which would help his local site to save energy.
This included installing sensors and timers, putting in a process for turning off heavy equipment when not in use and introducing a switch-off activity to the end of day security close down all aimed at making sure that when rooms and equipment are not in use were not wasting electricity.
Dr Sam Healy, Head of Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility, said: Its great to see someone with so much passion and energy recognised for their contribution.
My Contribution empowers people to make a difference.
Norman Terrill centre receiving his award from Leo Quinn left and Mark Elliott right.
In the US, the employee performance appraisal process has been We value the diversity of experience which drives the creativity and enhanced to improve employee ownership of career development, innovation of our engineers and scientists People Who Know How.
planning by supervisors and to better align employee development The different approaches that our people take in solving our with our US business objectives.
Employees are supported in the customers challenges gives us competitive advantage and the attainment of professional and technical certifications and degrees.
ability to retain and win new business.
Our US business is an ITIL Information Technology Infrastructure Environmental stewardship Library Foundation Certification Training provider, with two The reduction of the environmental impact of our operations certified instructors.
US employee service and accomplishments remains a priority.
Our UK Environmental Management System are recognised through a variety of bonus programs.
is certified to ISO 14001 and covers our estate and the sites we Diversity and inclusion manage on behalf of the MOD.
The delivery of test and evaluation QinetiQ provides an environment of respect and inclusion and training support services is conducted on MOD sites, many that recognises and values the unique skills, experiences and of which are designated conservation areas of national and perspectives that each employee contributes toward our business international importance, including St Kilda, a World Heritage Site.
In the US, a Diversity Recruiting Strategy has been As a result, sustainability appraisals are regularly carried out to introduced to focus on the recruitment of under-represented identify and mitigate any impact to the flora, fauna and any other groups.
This strategy will particularly focus on creating a rich sensitive receptors of the activities undertaken.
pipeline of candidates from these target groups for future positions.
Greenhouse gas emissions In the UK, we are committed to launching a new diversity and Monitoring of our UK carbon footprint shows a year-on-year reduction inclusion programme.
Currently the percentage of women working in emissions.
Arrangements for data capture of greenhouse emissions in the UK business is 20% and 28% of the US workforce is female.
across the Group have been rolled out using guidance and emission We are committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities factors published by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural in relation to applications, training, promotion and career Affairs.
A 15% reduction in carbon emissions over three years with a development.
If an existing employee becomes disabled, the 2012 baseline is our target in the UK.
This will be achieved by making Groups policy is to provide continuing employment and training, infrastructure more energy efficient and engaging employees to wherever practicable.
We have Two Ticks accreditation in the UK, change behaviour.
The theme of our UK annual Environment Week demonstrating we are committed to employing disabled people.
campaign in 2013 was focused on more sustainable travel.
Environmental objectives and performance 2013 objectives Progress Status 2014 objectives 15% reduction in UK carbon emissions by Programmes Ongoing Reduce carbon emissions in the UK 2015 to be delivered through investment underway, absolute by 15% 2012 baseline by 2015. projects, reducing business travel and emissions reduced Data streams to capture greenhouse gas improving employee engagement by 2% emissions for Group.
Continue to improve waste management Training delivered and Ongoing Encouraging reduction in waste, increased in the UK in relation to the whole waste improved mapping of re-use of assets, and enhanced hierarchy, not simply recycling waste streams segregation of waste streams for recycling.
36QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview B Bu us si in ne es ss s r re ev vie iew w Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The emissions data in the table below shows UK emissions for 2013.
Investment in our community Our Australia business reported 333 tonnes CO e from electricity use.
Our commitment to enthusing and attracting the next generation 2 of scientists and engineers is reflected in our work undertaken UK Emissions ktonnes CO e 2013 2012 2 on STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths Outreach.
1 Scope 1 gas 9.51 8.22 This programme plays to the strengths of a highly skilled technical Scope 1 oil 5.06 5.61 workforce and helps young people discover new opportunities for 2 learning and for their future.
In the UK our employee engagement Scope 1 travel 5.69 5.45 scores on giving something back rose by 6% due to the maturing Scope 2 electricity 44.19 45.57 of our volunteering programme, regularly celebrating the success 3 Scope 3 travel 5.40 6.43 of our community activities and getting employees actively involved Total emissions 69.85 71.29 in choosing our new UK charity partners.
In the US we support 1 educational enrichment through the National Guard Youth Gas usage up due to adverse weather conditions.
2 Foundation, World Affairs Council, Naval Historical Foundation Travel includes land vehicles and aircraft.
3 and various robotics education programmes.
There is also Travel includes flights and cars but excludes trains and ferries.
a particular focus on supporting wounded military and their UK waste management families by contributions to a range of specialist organisations.
We continue to focus on improving waste management through Across the Group we have corporately donated 180,492 this year training, mapping waste streams, improving data collection to registered charities.
Of this amount 31,314 was donated to our processes and encouraging re-use of assets.
Total waste this year UK corporate charities, 72,942 for education, 17,067 for military was 4,904 tonnes, including 211 tonnes of hazardous waste.
charities other than the corporately chosen military charity and This represents an increase on last years total due to significant 59,169 for diverse other causes.
In addition employees have raised footprint rationalisation and building works, combined with the 30,184 for our UK corporate charities, chosen in April 2012 RNLI, improved capture robustness of data.
There has been a significant Cancer Research UK and Help for Heroes for which they received diversion of waste from landfill approximately 85%.
The aim for matched funding and 31,633 through UK payroll giving.
2014 is to continue encouraging reduction in waste, increased re-use of assets, and enhanced segregation of waste-streams for recycling.
For detailed information on Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability visit: Sustainable procurement www.
com responsibility As a key supplier, our active engagement with the MOD on sustainability reflects our commitment to sustainable procurement.
Case study : Powerboat Challenge The QinetiQ Schools Powerboat Challenge provides pupils with an exciting and valuable opportunity to understand the importance of STEM within the marine industry.
The annual competition is held in the Ocean Basin at Haslar by the Maritime Division.
In 2012, 13 teams from ten schools in Hampshire and Dorset designed, built and raced their own model powerboats.
The pupils were given a design brief by QinetiQ, along with some of the equipment and parts they need to build the boats and were supported by QinetiQ scientists and engineers throughout the project.
They then raced their boats against each other and were judged by a panel of our experts.
Commenting on the event Sarah Kenny, MD Maritime, said: This event was about encouraging more youngsters to take up science subjects and become the marine engineers of the future.
Theres a national skills shortage in engineering and part of QinetiQs commitment is to bring local schools here.
Sarah Kenny, MD Maritime, at the Powerboat Challenge.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201337 Corporate governance Board of Directors Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed Non-executive Chairman in March 2010: Appointed Chief Executive Officer in November 2009.
Non-executive Director between June 2009 and Committee memberships February 2010.
Nominations Committee Committee memberships Risk & CSR Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Security Committee Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Risk & CSR Committee Leo was Chief Executive Officer of fide La Rue plc between Skills and experience 2005 and 2009.
He was previously Chief Operating Mark Elliott Leo Quinn Mark is a Non-executive Director of G4S plc.
He was a Officer of Invensys plcs Production Management Non-executive Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Division and before that spent 16 years with Honeywell Chairman 56 also Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and Inc. in a variety of senior management roles in the USA, 64 Reed Elsevier NV from April 2003 until April 2013.
Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
He was formerly a Non-executive Director of Tomkins plc.
He was previously General Manager of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa and was a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Council.
The Board considers that Marks extensive experience in the technology services sector, in the US and Europe, together with his exposure to a variety of industry sectors on the boards of FTSE listed companies, is a valuable asset to the Group in terms of leadership and of addressing the strategic issues that affect the Group.
Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed Chief Financial Officer in August 2008.
Appointed Non-executive Director in November 2011.
Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Committee memberships Non-executive Director in February 2012.
Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Committee memberships Audit Committee Skills and experience Nominations Committee David was previously deputy Chief Financial Officer Remuneration Committee of Logica plc.
He was also Chief Financial Officer of Risk & CSR Committee Logicas international division, covering operations Security Committee David Mellors Michael Harper in North America, Australia, the Middle East and Asia Chief Financial Officer Deputy Chairman and and, before that, was the Group Financial Controller.
Skills and experience 44 Senior Independent His earlier experience includes various roles with Michael was appointed Chairman of BBA Aviation plc in Non-executive Director CMG plc, Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
June 2007, having joined the Board in February 2005.
68 He is a member of the Institute of Chartered He is also Chairman of Ricardo plc.
He was Chairman of Accountants in England & Wales.
Vitec Group plc from 2004 to 2012 and was previously a Director of Williams plc where, at the time of the demerger in 2000, he became Chairman of Kidde plc.
The Board considers that Michaels wealth of operational and corporate experience enables him to make a significant contribution to the Board.
Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2003.
Appointed Non-executive Director in October 2005.
Committee memberships Committee memberships Audit Committee Audit Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Chairman Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee Chairman Skills and experience Skills and experience Noreen is a member of the Board of Credit Suisse Colin Balmer Noreen Doyle Colin is currently a member of the Board of the Royal Group Zurich and Chair of its UK regulated Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Mint and Chair of its Audit Committee.
She is a Non-executive Director of 66 64 senior posts in government, including Managing Newmont Mining Corporation Denver, where she Director of the Cabinet Office from 2003 until his is Chair of the Audit Committee.
He was previously Finance Director 2012 she served on the Board of Rexam plc, where she of the MOD and was responsible for QinetiQs was Chair of the Finance Committee.
She was First Vice privatisation.
President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EBRD.
Before EBRD, she worked Notwithstanding that Colin has served on the Board in corporate finance and leveraged financing at for more than nine years, the Board considers that Bankers Trust Company now Deutsche Bank.
he remains independent in character and judgement.
Further, the Board considers that Colins extensive The Board considers that Noreens extensive knowledge of the development of QinetiQ, and his international business experience, particularly in in-depth understanding of the working of government, corporate finance, risk management and banking, continue to provide the Board with a unique insight is of significant benefit to the Board.
into the issues government faces in delivering its procurement objectives.
38QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Business review C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce Financial statements Additional information Appointment to the Board Board statistics Appointed Non-executive Director in April 2010.
Committee memberships Board experience Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 75% Finance Risk & CSR Committee Nominations Committee 75% Operational Security Committee 75% International Skills and experience Admiral Sir James Sir James commanded the aircraft carrier HMS 75% Other PLC Burnell-Nugent Invincible and three other ships and submarines during Non-executive Director a 37-year career in the Royal Navy that culminated 63 in his appointment as Commander-in-Chief Fleet.
Between operational duties he held several positions at the MOD and gained cross-Whitehall experience Board composition while on secondment to HM Treasury.
The Board considers that Sir James expertise in the 25% Executive government contracting domain, particularly with the 75% Non-executive UK MOD and HM Treasury, is highly beneficial in the context of QinetiQs government-sourced operations.
87.5% Male 12.5% Female Appointment to the Board Appointed Non-executive Director in October 2010.
Committee memberships Board tenure Audit Committee Chairman 12.5% 0-2 years Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 12.5% 2-3 years Risk & CSR Committee Security Committee 50% 3-5 years Skills and experience Paul Murray 25% 5-11 years Paul is currently a Non-executive Director and Chair of Non-executive Director the Audit & Risk Committee at Royal Mail Holdings plc.
51 He is also a Director of Naked Energy Ltd and Knowledge Peers plc and a Trustee of Pilotlight.
He was previously Senior Independent Director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, a Non-executive Director of Thomson SA and Tangent Communications plc, and has also been Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc.
The Board considers that Paul brings a broad range of experience in finance and corporate governance from a cross-section of industries, all of which leverage technology.
Appointment Appointed as Company Secretary and Group General Counsel in January 2011.
Skills and experience Jon joined QinetiQ from Chloride Group plc where he held a similar role.
He has a background in legal private practice as well as general counsel and company secretarial experience in other FTSE250 companies.
Jon Messent Company Secretary and Group General Counsel 49 QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201339
