Corporate governance report continued The board believes that all its members have sufficient time counsel, the companys internal auditor, and the companys to devote to the company.
Details of any candidates existing external auditor and accountants.
board commitments are disclosed at the time of consideration of their respective appointment and the board does not As set out on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report, the members of the remuneration committee have continued believe that any other board commitments adversely affect to liaise closely with consultants Towers Watson & Co and any board members contribution to the company.
No current English lawyers Ashurst LLP, with regard to executive and director, whether executive or non-executive, is a director of non-executive remuneration.
The committee has also been another FTSE 100 company, however Messrs NP Cole Jr and provided with periodic information concerning market CL Coleman are also non-executive directors of the board of remuneration and legislation changes from the companys Papa John's International Inc, the New York NASDAQ listed general counsel.
company, and Dr DM Bristow is a non-executive director of Rockwell Diamonds Inc the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and The board should be supplied in a timely manner with Toronto Stock Exchange listed company.
Notwithstanding information in a form and of a quality appropriate to any additional directorships members of the board may have, enable it to discharge its duties.
the board devotes a considerable amount of time spent on company business including attending at least one site visit Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of the company each financial year: during 2013 the board undertook a site visit secretary to ensure an effective flow of information occurs to the Kibali gold mine and in 2014 the board will make two site between the board, its committees and the management of visits where they will spend time at the companys operations the company.
The information sharing process utilises a including time with the site management.
The board finds secure online platform to allow the board to access all current attending site visits valuable and increases their day-to-day and historical board and committee briefing packs as well as knowledge of the issues facing the groups operations.
key corporate and operational documentation.
The board and committee briefing packs cover such areas as health All directors should receive induction on joining the board and safety, financial, legal, technical, treasury, tax, human and should regularly update and refresh their skills and resources, environmental, sustainability and communications knowledge.
in respect of the operations and the company as a whole.
The company secretary ensures that the board is appraised on all The board continues to operate in a field which is technically corporate governance matters.
complex and directors are provided with a comprehensive set of materials, including information in relation to environmental, The board should undertake a formal and rigorous social and governance issues, which enable them to fulfil their annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its duties effectively.
Visits to the mines, offices and technical committees and individual directors.
presentations provided by management are used to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
A new Please refer to the report of the governance and nomination director is taken on site visits, and is afforded an opportunity committee, which is set out on pages 168 to 171 of this annual to meet with employees and managers and be provided report.
with a comprehensive pack of corporate induction materials, including a memorandum of the role and responsibility of The board undertook an evaluation session at its November a director prepared by the companys general counsel and 2013 board meeting led by the chairman.
The process started company secretary.
As part of his continuing induction process, with each director completing a detailed questionnaire followed Mr J Kassum attended a series of corporate governance training by a round table discussion on the questionnaires results and sessions in February 2014 conducted by the companys Jersey, individual directors performance.
No areas of weakness in any English and United States lawyers.
individual directors performance were identified.
The board is therefore recommending to shareholders that they vote in As in previous years, Dr K Dagdelen and his team from the favour of the re-election of each director proposed in the 2014 Colorado School of Mines worked closely with the companys notice of AGM.
exploration and mineral resources departments to facilitate mine optimisation and geological knowledge.
During the year, The board continues to believe that its annual evaluation Dr K Dagdelen and Mr AJ Quinn visited the Kibali gold mine to exercise is beneficial to ensure the satisfactory performance of review the mines development in advance of the board and board members.
As mentioned above, an evaluation involving committee meetings held there in January 2013. an external facilitator will take place on or before January 2015.
Members of the audit committee come from a financial A meeting of the non-executive directors under the leadership background and have the necessary skills and experience to of the senior independent director also assessed the chairmans undertake their role on the committee.
The findings of that session confirmed the also receives on a regular basis legislative, corporate chairman continues to provide strong leadership to the board and to the board committees in which he participates.
governance and market updates from the companys general 128 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular has charged the audit committee to oversee the preparation intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
of the company's annual report and accounts and to liaise with the company's internal and external auditors.
The audit All directors stand for re-election annually.
It is the companys committee regularly meets with the internal auditor and policy for any newly appointed director to be subject to election separately with the external auditor.
The audit committee also by shareholders after his her appointment.
The articles do invites the CFO to attend its meetings.
The CFO makes himself not specify either an age limit for directors or any restriction available to the committee both at its committee meetings and about the period of service.
Biographies of the directors can at other times to deal with questions from the committee on be found on page 12 of this annual report.
the companys financial statements and the groups operations generally.
Following the audit committees sessions it then Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive reports directly to the board on the work it has undertaken.
directors and the service agreements for each executive As part of the procedures and measures the audit committee director are available for inspection at the companys registered and the board have in place the audit committee considers office and at each annual general meeting of the company.
the preparation of the company's annual report and accounts taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving Please refer to the financial statements, which can be found on its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound pages 180 to 223 of this annual report, together with the CEOs risk management and internal control systems.
review and the financial review on pages 5 to 9 and 13 to 15 of this annual report.
Please refer to the sections headed control environment and risk management, which can be found on page 138 to of this Details of the significant areas of judgement or estimate are annual report.
further discussed in the report of the audit committee on pages 131 to 145.
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to The board should establish formal and transparent run the company successfully, but a company should avoid arrangements for considering how they should apply the paying more than necessary for this purpose.
A significant corporate reporting and risk management and internal proportion of executive directors remuneration should control principles and for maintaining an appropriate be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and relationship with the companys auditors.
Further details of the companys approach to corporate Please refer to the remuneration report, which can be found reporting, risk management and internal control principles on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report.
are dealt with in the audit committee report on pages 131 to 145 of this annual report.
The audit committee reviews the There should be a formal and transparent procedure for company's financial reports, internal control principles and risk developing policy on executive remuneration and for management systems, reviews significant financial reporting fixing the remuneration packages for individual directors.
judgments and deals with the appointment of the auditors No director should be involved in deciding his or her own and monitors their relationship with the company and its remuneration.
The remuneration committee regularly reviews the executive The audit committee makes recommendations to the board in directors salary.
When such reviews occur the executive relation to the appointment, re-appointment and any changes directors do not participate in any resolution on their to the external auditors.
BDO LLP BDO was appointed in remuneration.
The chairman does not participate in any 2007 following a formal review and tendering process.
In 2011, resolution on his remuneration.
The other non-executive the board established a formal policy relating to the periodic directors of the company do not participate in any resolution review of the external auditors, which stipulates that the on their remuneration.
For further details please refer to the external audit shall be put out to formal tender every five years.
remuneration report, which can be found on pages 146 to 167 During the tender process the audit committee will review the of this annual report.
credentials of other providers of external audit services as well as the incumbent auditors, along with other information, to The board should present a fair, balanced and assess their capability to conduct the audit while delivering a understandable assessment of the companys position high quality and cost effective audit service.
Further details of and prospects.
the audit committees process for appointing auditors of the company are set out on page 136 of this annual report.
The board considers that the procedures it has in place to ensure the information presented to it is fair, balanced and A copy the of audit committees terms of reference is available understandable, are appropriate.
In particular the board on the companys website www.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 129 Corporate governance report continued There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on Investor forums attended 2013 the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a Location Forum whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory Bamako, Mali Journes Minires et Ptrolires dialogue with shareholders takes place.
du Mali Barcelona, Spain BOAML Global Metals, Mining and The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining Steel Conference effective communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, Cape Town, South Africa Mining Indaba corporate communications manager and the companys Denver, USA Denver Gold Forum investor relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for Hollywood, Florida BMO Global Metals and Mining the board detailing the activities and presentations given to Conference shareholders.
In addition, since September 2004 the company has employed international market intelligence experts to Kinshasa, DRC Infrastructure Partnerships for African Development provide a global shareholder identification service which has enhanced the companys communications.
London, United Kingdom Numis FTSE 100 Conference Morgan Stanley Digging Deeper While general corporate communication with shareholders is Conference conducted by the CEO, the chairman, regularly participates UK Cte dIvoire Trade & in dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders.
In Investment Forum addition members of the remuneration committee undertake Deutsche BRICS Metals and Mining annual meetings with the companys shareholders and voting Conference guidance agencies.
RBC Capital Markets Gold Conference It has been the policy of the company that twice a year Mines and Money extensive roadshows are conducted by the CEO, accompanied New York, USA Hard Assets Investment by various members of the executive team, where meetings Conference are held with most of the companys major institutional shareholders to brief them on the activities of the company San Francisco, USA Hard Assets Investment Conference and to enable company representatives to interact directly with shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition, after Toronto, Canada PDAC the publication of each set of quarterly results the CEO follows Yamoussoukro, The First Major International Trade up with a conference call available for interested shareholders, Cte dIvoire Fair for Investment in Africa investors and international media, and conducts meetings with many of the institutional shareholders.
The roadshows The board should use the AGM to communicate with are in addition to the companys attendance at several key investors and to encourage their participation.
international mining and investment conferences around the world.
Randgold held investor days in New York, Toronto and The board believes that the AGM continues to be an appropriate London and, in the light of their success and positive feedback, forum for contact with shareholders and encourages their will do so again in 2014. attendance and participation.
In terms of Article 19.10 of the companys Articles of Association, for as long as the shares of Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors to join the company are admitted for trading on the London Stock him at presentations made to shareholders and institutional Exchange or the New York NASDAQ Stock Market, at any investors.
During their visit to the Kibali gold mine, in January general meeting all resolutions put to the meeting shall be 2013, the board had the opportunity to interact with fund decided on a poll.
The number of proxies received is disclosed managers and equity research analysts who were then touring to members in attendance at each AGM.
At the 2013 AGM, the the companys operations.
In addition, the chairman attended board chairman, all committee chairmen as well as other nonthe Mining Indaba Conferences in Cape Town, South Africa, executive directors were present and were available to address in 2013 and 2014 when he had an opportunity to interact any queries raised by shareholders.
Results of the AGM are with various investors and fund managers who attended the published on the day of the meeting to inform shareholders conferences.
not present of the results of the voting.
The board continues to use the internet for publication of Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make announcements and to file these on the companys website considered use of their votes.
The company is pleased to to assist with communication with shareholders.
In addition, see the increasing trend of institutional shareholders now the board encourages shareholders to access the annual exercising their rights to vote at annual general meetings.
In report from the website.
The structure and accessibility of our the past three years the percentage of shareholders present website is regularly monitored through a process of internal and voting has steadily increased, which is welcomed by the and external reviews.
130 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Audit committee report for the year ended 31 December 2013 The audit committees key objective is to support the board in fullling its oversight responsibilities.
The audit committee monitors the decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial and corporate reporting while ensuring that robust systems of internal control and risk management are in place and adhered to.
The audit committees duties, roles and responsibilities include the following: M onitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial and other reporting judgements: R eviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the annual financial statements, financial reporting issues and disclosures in the financial reports: R eviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities: A pproving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system: M aking recommendations to the board on the appointment, re-appointment or change of the groups external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors: O verseeing the boards relationship with the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process is monitored and reviewed: D eveloping, implementing and maintaining a policy on the engagement of the groups external auditors supply of non-audit services: R eporting to the board any matters which have been identied that the committee consider need to be considered, actioned or improved upon: M onitoring the groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including ensuring that effective procedures are in place relating to the groups whistleblowing and anti-corruption policies: and A ssessing whether the annual report, considered in its entirety, is fair, balanced and understandable, then subsequently recommending its approval to the board.
Karl Voltaire Chairman, audit committee Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 131 Audit committee report continued the carrying value and the recoverability of TVA receivables Membership and meeting frequency and the tax disputes in which the group is currently Number of engaged: and meetings the adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
Members Appointed attended K Voltaire Chairman 1 August 2006 6 6 The issues were reviewed and discussed in detail with CL Coleman 11 May 2009 6 6 management during the year and with the external auditor AJ Quinn 1 November 2011 6 6 during both the audit planning stage and at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements.
Each of the three members of the audit committee is an independent non-executive director.
The audit committee The committee has assessed the groups control environment oversees the groups financial reporting and internal controls including controls around fraud prevention and detection and provides a formal link with the groups external auditors.
This assessment, which It performs its duties by maintaining effective working included assessment of reports by the internal and external relationships with the board, management, internal and auditors, enabled the committee to be satisfied that risks external auditors.
Under the governance of the chairman, the of management override of controls or material fraud were audit committee met six times during the year to discharge suitably mitigated.
Attendance of members of the audit committee during 2013 is shown in the table above.
The assessment of the carrying value of mining assets As explained in notes 3 and 9 to the financial statements the The chairman of the audit committee holds an MBA and group has incurred significant capital expenditure during the PhD in economics and finance and the other two members year and the carrying value of mining assets represents a have extensive experience in the financial services sector as substantial amount as well as having commercial significance detailed in their biographies on page 12 of this annual report.
on the various projects and the long term plans of the group.
The board believes that this level of experience continues to be The audit committee sought to assure itself that given the sufficient to meet the standards set by the United Kingdoms decline of the gold price and industry wide impairments being Corporate Governance Code.
In the event that any issues disclosed there was no impairment required on the carrying arise which are deemed outside the areas of expertise of the value of mining assets.
While detailed assessment of the members of the audit committee, independent professional impairment reviews was considered appropriate given such advice is always sought.
market factors, the risk of impairment was noted to be reduced given the group's mine planning approach.
As detailed in In relation to tax and value added tax TVA disputes as well as note 3 of the financial statements the group uses a cut-off general tax matters, management has sought the expertise of gold price of US$1 000 oz in the mineral reserves optimisation external advisors during the year, which has been provided to calculations, which is considered to be a conservative approach the audit committee to help support its assessment of these in determining reserves used in the Life of Mine plans.
Management presented an assessment of the carrying value The board considers all members of the audit committee of mining assets and the underlying assumptions used in to be independent for the reasons set out in the corporate the impairment testing of the groups assets in support for governance report.
their carrying value, including key judgements and estimates in Life of Mine plans, to the audit committee for review and In terms of the directors remuneration policy, for providing scrutiny.
The audit committee sought to assure itself that the services to the audit committee for the year, Mr CL Coleman assessment was robust and their review included challenge was paid US$35 000, Mr AJ Quinn was paid US$35 000 and over the gold prices used, discount rates and operational Dr K Voltaire, as chairman of the audit committee, was paid assumptions and sensitivities.
The audit committee was US$50 000. satisfied from the impairment calculations as well as reviewing the short and long term plans of the group that there was no Financial reporting necessity for a provision to be made against the carrying value The primary role of the committee in relation to financial of the mining assets.
reporting is the review, with key management and the external auditor, as applicable, of the appropriateness of the annual report, The external auditor explained its planned audit procedures Form 20-F, quarterly financial reports and other published and results of the testing performed on managements information for statutory and regulatory compliance.
The assessment of the carrying value mining of assets and committees views are reported to the board to assist in its considered the groups disclosures of the matter.
On the basis review and the approval of results announcements and the of its audit work, the external auditor reported to the audit annual report and Form 20-F. committee no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
Significant issues considered by the audit committee The significant areas of consideration or judgement deliberated by the audit committee in 2013, through Capital expenditure, related controls and areas of assessment of management reports to the audit committee estimation and presentations by the external auditors, in respect of the During 2013 the group made significant investment in its annual report and financial statements related to: projects through capital expenditure which represented a risk the assessment of the carrying value of mining assets: area of particular interest to the audit committee along with capital expenditure related controls and areas of the related capital expenditure controls and, where applicable, estimation: areas of estimation.
On a quarterly basis the audit committee 132 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 133 Audit committee report continued received detailed reports on material capital expenditure operation.
Management continues to engage with the Malian during the period and challenged managements assessment authorities at the highest level to resolve this issue and, in of areas of estimation such as depreciation, allocation of costs respect of Loulo SA, submitted a request for arbitration at the split between operational and capital expenditure, and the International Court of the Settlement of Investment Disputes determination of commercial production at the Kibali gold against the State of Mali in relation to certain of its disputed tax mine and associated cut-off procedures between operational claims.
Management presented ongoing correspondence with and capital expenditure and stockpiles.
As detailed on the State of Mali and assessment of the companys position page 47 of this annual report, the Kibali gold mine was on the claims which were reviewed by the audit committee determined to have reached commercial production phase in throughout the year.
The audit committee is satisfied that the evidence produced, both from internal assessment and from October 2013. external legal and financial advice, supports the view that the The audit committee sought to assure itself through the claims are wholly without merit or foundation.
review of the assessment from internal audit over the capital expenditure procedures and controls, including controls The external auditor explained its planned audit procedures around authorisation and capital cost allocation, that and results of the testing performed on managements assessment of the recoverability of value added tax receivables appropriate assurance could be taken that controls in place and considered the groups disclosures of the matter along with were adequate.
disclosures in relation to tax disputes.
On the basis of its audit Management performed an assessment of whether the work, the external auditor reported to the audit committee requirements of commercial production had been met.
that there were no material inconsistencies or misstatements This assessment was reviewed by the audit committee in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
which concluded that, based on the evidence provided by management, it was satisfied that the assessment is The adoption of IFRS 11 Joint arrangements appropriate.
As detailed in note 2 of the financial statements in this annual report, the group changed its accounting policy on joint The external auditor explained their planned audit procedures ventures from 1 January 2013 following the introduction of IFRS and results of the testing performed on managements 11 Joint arrangements.
This represented a significant change to the way in which the financial statements are presented assessment and appropriateness of the capital expenditure, related controls and areas of estimation.
On the basis of with comparatives restated.
In performing their assessment their audit work, the external auditor reported to the audit of the impact of the change in presentation and disclosure committee no inconsistencies or misstatements that were resulting from the adoption of IFRS 11, management provided material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
the audit committee with a reconciliation between the new accounting standard and the previous one and an explanation of significant changes.
The carrying value and the recoverability of TVA and the tax disputes in which the group is currently engaged On a quarterly basis, starting in the first quarter of 2013, As detailed in notes 3, 7 and 17 in the financial statements, the management provided the audit committee with this impact group is carrying TVA receivables totalling US$125.7 million assessment as well as a year end impact assessment applicable 31 December 2012: US$82.2 million in respect of the Loulo for the annual financial statements.
The TVA carrying value for the equity accounted Morila joint venture is US$4.3 million 2012: The audit committee reviewed and challenged the US$1.8 million.
The equity accounted Kibali joint venture appropriateness of the restatement of prior year results, is carrying a further US$36.4 million 31 December 2012: the related disclosure and the suitability and basis of the US$23.5 million of attributable TVA receivables.
The assessment of the form of the joint arrangement for the significant joint ventures and challenged management on the assessment of the carrying value and the recoverability of the TVA receivables in Mali was made by management and requirements for detailed disclosure in reporting.
reported to the audit committee including the estimated timing for the recovery of amounts outstanding in Mali against taxes The external auditor explained its planned audit procedures payable, with such offsetting allowable per the legally binding and results of the testing performed on managements mining conventions in place.
assessment of the nature of joint ventures, the application of the accounting standard and considered the groups An assessment of the recoverability of current DRC TVA disclosures of the matter.
On the basis of its audit work, the receivable was made by management and reported to the external auditor reported to the audit committee that there audit committee for analysis and interrogation.
Management were no material inconsistencies or misstatements in the reported that they were satisfied adequate recovery of the context of the financial statements as a whole.
outstanding receivable balance would be made.
Main activities during the year The audit committee interrogated managements assessment The committee assisted the board in carrying out its of the recoverability of the TVA receivables in Mali and in DRC responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, along with the timing and were satisfied that the carrying risk management and the assessment of internal controls.
values of the receivables are recoverable.
During the year it also reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function and managed the groups relationship As detailed in notes 3 and 19 in the financial statements, with the external auditor.
the group had received claims for various taxes from the State of Mali totalling US$123.1 million 31 December 2012: During the six meetings in the year, the committee focused on U$86.2 million, in respect of Loulo SA, Gounkoto SA and Morila and considered the following main activities as detailed in the SA attributable portion and Kankou Moussa SARL gold sales table alongside: 134 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources
