The company will continue to recruit and advance women The company also partners with local businesses to assist with to positions of senior management and elsewhere in the the training requirements of the companys contractors.
The company has a number of women company has developed training programmes which develop in key executive and senior managerial positions and this many of our employees understanding of the companys includes several national locals who hold key positions business and this alignment has brought significant rewards to within the companys mine management teams.
Similarly, both the companys employees and its business.
the company continues to progress introducing women to positions throughout the organisation which traditionally have The company introduced in 2013 a training course on finance been male domains and this constitutes a major advance in and financial management for non-financial managers and for the patriarchal societies of West and Central Africa where the key employees.
The course is presented by the University of company operates.
Cape Towns Graduate School of Business Administration and to date 108 of the companys employees have graduated from In addition, the company continues its successful drive to the course.
develop local national managers and executives.
Across the operating mines, 97% of senior management positions heads The companys employment policy is centred firstly of department and above were held by nationals, with four out on recruitment from the local community, followed by of five mine general managers being nationals.
recruitment nationally and then by regional selection.
Only if the skills cannot be sourced in this manner does the company As an African focused gold mining company operating in rural recruit expatriates.
Its success rate in ensuring that suitable areas of Africa the company has the challenge of uplifting the candidates are able to operate effectively requires an active communities directly affected by its mining projects, as well as programme of mentoring.
In addition, Randgolds existing the inhabitants of the countries in which the mines are located.
mines are used as training and development grounds for new staff joining other operations.
For instance, the Morila gold Succession planning mine in Mali has served as a good example of the success of The governance and nomination committee periodically this process with plant personnel from the Loulo, Tongon and reviews the companys succession planning.
During the year Kibali mines being trained on an operating plant facility ahead as in previous years the committee held discussions with of their relocation to their permanent place of employment.
the CEO about succession planning for his own position.
The committee considered the job description of the CEO and The appointment in January 2013 of Mrs J Mabunda Lioko to considered the natural resources market, analysing where the board of directors of the company as a non-executive external candidates could be sourced.
The committee, director demonstrates the companys continuing commitment together with the CEO, considered which members of the to recruit and promote women into the highest positions in the companys senior employees the committee felt had the company.
The company continues its policy of recruitment necessary expertise to fulfil the role of CEO whether on a short based on ability and talent.
172 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources The committee continued to look at succession planning at other levels of the company and, at the committees meeting in November 2013, the CEO presented the committee with his thoughts on succession plans for the companys senior executives.
The committee was encouraged to find that in most instances succession was available internally.
The board often has an opportunity to meet with senior management and see them operate on site when they visit the groups operations.
The board encourages such site visits which are undertaken at least once every year as it allows the board to interact with site management and for day-to-day issues to be discussed, broadening the boards understanding of activities of the company.
The committee believes this exposure to the companys senior executives together with having senior executives attend the boards meetings where presentations are given to the board, provides the directors with a useful benchmark against which to measure management.
Outgoing non-executive chairman Philippe Litard congratulates At the boards meeting in January 2014 the chairman of the Christopher Coleman on his new position.
board announced that he would not put himself forward for re-election at the companys AGM on 6 May 2014. board at the end of the AGM he will step down as chairman of Mr P Litard has been chairman of the board for 10 years and the governance and nomination committee at the same time a non-executive director of the company since 1998 and while and he will be replaced by Mr CL Coleman.
With effect from he will step down from the board at the end of the companys 3 May 2014 the board's committees will consist of the following AGM, he has agreed to become the first chairman of the non-executive directors.
Nos Vies en Partage Foundation, the charitable foundation established by Randgold.
Audit committee K Voltaire Chairman The governance and nomination committee took the lead CL Coleman until 6 May 2014 in considering potential candidates to act as chairman of AJ Quinn the board and formed a special committee to consider the J Kassum succession of the chairman.
This special committee was led by J Mabunda Lioko Mr NP Cole Jr, the senior independent director, and consisted of the following independent non-executive directors: Mr A Quinn, Mr K Dagdelen and Mrs J Mabunda Lioko.
The Remuneration committee special committee considered internal and external candidates NP Cole Jr Chairman for the role of chairman.
The chairman of the board, the CL Coleman internal and external candidates and the executive directors K Voltaire did not participate in the special committees discussions.
AJ Quinn The special committee reported its recommendation to the governance and nomination committee.
Governance and nomination committee The governance and nomination committee considered P Litard Chairman until 6 May 2014 the recommendations of the special committee.
When CL Coleman Chairman designate succession of the chairman of the board was considered by NP Cole the governance and nomination committee, the chairman K Dagdelen of the board passed the chair of the meeting to the senior J Kassum independent director.
Following detailed consideration by the governance and nomination committee, the committee made its recommendation to the board.
At the companys board As a result of Mr CL Coleman's appointment to chairman, meeting and following resolution of the directors where the he will no longer be a member of the audit committee from chairman of the board and the internal candidates abstained 6 May 2013. from voting, Mr CL Coleman was invited by the board to be the next chairman of the board with effect from the end of the No executive director of the company is a member of the company's next AGM on 6 May 2014, which he accepted.
However, the chairmen of the boards committees regularly invite the executive directors to be At its January 2014 meeting, following a recommendation present during their meetings.
from the governance and nomination committee, the board approved changes to the composition of its committees, The committee considers its succession planning procedures effective from 3 May 2014 being the next meeting of the boards and the processes involved when dealing with new committees following the January 2014 board meeting.
As a appointments to the board and when considering changes to consequence of Mr P Litard stepping down as chairman of the the chairmanship of the board, appropriate.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 173 Financial statements Financial statements Kibali fully commissioned Vertical shaft Building a mine: Drawing on the experience of completed #5 2016 Q1 developing four other mines in Africa, as well as the skills Q4 of an integrated, multi-disciplinary team, Randgold was Q3 able to drive the massive Kibali project from bare earth 2015 Underground Q2 to first gold production in under four years, creating or ore mining starts upgrading the regional infrastructure and relocating Q1 14 villages to a new model town in the process.
Q4 1st hydropower Underground station Villagers development Q3 Infrastructure completed resettled 2014 ore accessed upgrade Q2 Full plant 1st circuit completed commisioning commissioned Gold sales Q1 Gold start Q4 production starts Q3 Vertical 2013 shaft Q2 starts Decline Q1 development Open pit starts Q4 mining starts Q3 2012 Q2 Construction begins Q1 Feasibility optimised Q4 Q3 2011 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 2010 Q2 Reserves Financial statements doubled Q1 Moto 176 Statement of directors responsibilities acquired Q4 177 Report of the independent auditors 2009 180 Financial statements Q3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Statement of directors responsibilities and approval of the annual financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the annual financial statements in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
The directors have also chosen to prepare the financial statements for the group in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of Randgold Resources Limited company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures group.
The directors also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
The directors also have general responsibility for selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them consistently, and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for implementing appropriate controls to ensure that the financial statements are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error.
The directors are required to comply with the requirements of rule 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority in preparing this annual report.
After reviewing the groups and the companys budget for the next financial year and other longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe that the group and company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future based on forecasts, available cash resources and funding facilities.
The viability of the company and the group is supported by the financial statements.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting firm, BDO LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the board of directors and committees of the board.
The directors believe that all representations made to the independent auditors during their audit were valid and appropriate.
BDO LLPs audit report is presented on pages 177 to 179 of this annual report.
The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the report since it was initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Jersey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial information may differ from other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, presented on pages 180 to 223, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed by the European Union, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991 and give a true and fair view of the profit of the group for the year ended 31 December 2013 and of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the group and parent company as at 31 December 2013.
The annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the group and the parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 14 March 2014 and are signed on its behalf by: Mark Bristow Philippe Litard Chief executive Chairman 176 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Report of the independent auditors to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued of Randgold Resources Limited the company which by the IASB comprise the statement of financial position of the company As explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, as of 31 December 2013 and the statement of changes in the group, in addition to complying with its obligation to equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with and consolidated statement of financial position of the IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures the group with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards as of 31 December 2013 and the consolidated statement of Board IASB.
comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply then ended and the related notes.
The financial reporting with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Our assessment of risks of material misstatement IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
We identified the following risks that we believe to have had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope: This report is made solely to the companys members, as as detailed in notes 3 and 19, the groups Malian operations a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies are subject to taxation claims by the State of Mali totalling Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken US$123.1 million which are fully disputed by the group.
so that we might state to the companys members those The group has taken professional advice with regards to matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the claims and has commenced international arbitration report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent proceedings against the State of Mali disputing the validity permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to of the claims.
Given the material nature of the claims anyone other than the company and the companys members and ongoing nature of the disputes and international as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions arbitration proceedings, the recognition and presentation we have formed.
of any liabilities or contingent liabilities arising as a result of Respective responsibilities of directors and the taxation claims represent key judgements and was a auditors risk for our audit: As explained more fully in the statement of directors as detailed in notes 3, 7 and 17, the group is carrying responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the value added tax TVA receivables totalling US$125.7 preparation of the financial statements in accordance with million in respect of its Loulo and Gounkoto operations, in Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for being satisfied that they addition the equity accounted Kibali joint venture based give a true and fair view.
The directors are responsible for such in the Democratic Republic of Congo holds a further internal controls as the directors determine are necessary to US$81.0 million of TVA receivables of which, given the enable the preparation of financial statements that are free groups 45% joint venture interest, US$36.4 million is from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The group has experienced The directors are required to comply with the requirements of significant delays obtaining refunds for the amounts due rules 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial from the State of Mali and is offsetting taxes payable Conduct Authority in preparing this annual report.
against the receivables in Mali under the terms of its Mining Convention.
A number of refunds have been received Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the in respect of TVA by the Kibali joint venture, however financial statements in accordance with applicable law and these have not been on a timely basis.
Given the delays International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those in recovering the amounts due, the carrying value and standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting presentation of TVA receivables represent key judgements Council's Ethical Standards for Auditors.
and was considered to be a risk for our audit: the group has incurred substantial capital expenditure as Scope of the audit of the financial statements part of its development of the Loulo Underground mine and A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements has advanced significant funding to the Kibali joint venture is provided on the Financial Reporting Council's website at for the development of the Kibali gold mine.
accuracy and completeness of capital expenditure at these mines represented a risk for our audit given the material Opinion on financial statements nature of capital expenditure.
Additionally as discussed In our opinion the financial statements: in note 3, judgement was required by management in the give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and the groups determination of the date certain Kibali assets companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the were brought into use and when depreciation commenced groups profit for the year then ended: during the year, together with the allocation of costs have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and between operating expenditure, ore stockpiles and capital have been prepared in accordance with Companies expenditure.
This judgement added to the risk for our Jersey Law 1991. audit: Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 177 Report of the independent auditors continued as detailed in note 3, the assessment of any impairment We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to to the carrying value of mining assets requires significant the committee all individual audit differences identified during estimation by management, including estimates relating the course of our audit in excess of US$0.8 million.
We also to key assumptions included in impairment models.
Key agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our assumptions include future gold prices, future production view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
volumes, future production costs and appropriate discount rates.
The carrying value of mining assets is considered to An overview of the scope of our audit represent a risk for our audit given the 29% reduction in Our group audit scope focused on the groups five principle the spot gold price during the year and the impairments operating locations, each of which is subject to a full scope recorded by other gold producers in 2013: audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The five principle as detailed in note 2, the group has adopted IFRS 11 Joint operating locations include two joint ventures.
Our audit arrangements in the year and restated prior periods includes a combination of tests of controls and substantive accordingly.
While not requiring significant judgement or procedures at each location.
Together with the parent company estimation, the accounting treatment and presentation and its group consolidation, which were also subject to a full of joint ventures following the groups adoption of scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2013, these IFRS 11 had a pervasive impact on the financial statements locations represent the principal business units of the group and was therefore considered to be a risk for our audit: and and account for 100% of the groups revenue, approximately the risk of management override of internal control exists 98% of the groups profit before income tax and approximately in any entity and the presence of significant estimates 98% of the groups total assets.
and judgements as detailed in note 3 increase this risk.
In addition, International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland Audits of these locations are performed at a materiality level state that this risk must always be treated as significant.
calculated by reference to a proportion of group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
The report of the audit committee describes the audit The audits of each of these locations are principally performed committees assessment of each of these risks.
in Mali, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Cte dIvoire, as well as the audit of corporate accounting functions in Jersey Our application of materiality and South Africa.
The audits are conducted by BDO LLP.
As We apply the concept of materiality both in planning part of our audit strategy, the Responsible Inividual or his and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of senior audit managers visit each of the five operating locations misstatements.
We consider materiality to be the magnitude each year.
by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that The remaining components of the group include nonare taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order significant holding companies and these components were to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that principally subject to analytical review procedures.
any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the The way in which we scoped our response to the risks identified extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below above was as follows: these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial we critically reviewed the groups mining conventions, as we also take account of the nature of identified arbitration filings and correspondence with the State misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their of Mali to consider the extent to which the directors occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial assessment that any contingent liabilities associated with statements as a whole.
the taxation claims was remote remained appropriate.
We verified the completeness and accuracy of the claim values We determined materiality for the financial statements as a to the groups tax correspondence, and evaluated the whole to be US$30.2 million, which equated to 7.5% of profit competence and objectivity of professional advisors relied before income tax and represents 0.1% of equity.
We consider upon by management.
We obtained confirmations from profit before income tax to be the most significant determinant those local and international legal and tax advisors which of the groups financial performance and therefore an supported the directors assessment that the claims were appropriate basis for materiality.
without legal merit: we obtained and considered the groups correspondence On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our with tax authorities in respect of TVA for indicators that assessment of the groups control environment, our such taxes were irrecoverable under local tax rules and judgment is that performance materiality for the financial we verified that taxes claimed during the year had been statements should be 75% of materiality, which equates to approved by the tax authority or were not subject to a formal US$22.7 million for the financial statements as a whole.
We considered and challenged managements objective in adopting this approach is to ensure that total assessment of the carrying value and presentation of detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our the receivables, together with the appropriateness of materiality of US$30.2 million for the financial statements as the assumptions made in reaching those conclusions.
particular, this included consideration by us of the payment 178 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources history, the nature of ongoing correspondence, ongoing recoverability.
We challenged the assumptions and taxation disputes refer to previous point, terms of the estimates and, where internal management experts and mining conventions in Mali that confer rights to offset such external experts were used by management, we assessed taxes claimed against other taxes due, and challenging the scope of work, objectivity and competence of the the appropriateness of assumptions and estimates made experts and assessed their findings.
regarding the value and timing of eligible future taxes available for offset under the terms of such conventions: The audit committees consideration of these areas is set out we performed tests of controls and substantive procedures on page 132 to 134. to obtain assurance as to the authorisation, accuracy and completeness of the recording and classification Matters on which we are required to report by of capital expenditure.
We also undertook verification exception testing on expenditure to supporting documentation such We have nothing to report in respect of the following: as contracts.
We evaluated managements assessment that commercial production commenced at Kibali from Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to 1 October 2013 by reference to throughput and recovery report to you if, in our opinion: levels being achieved by the mine.
We critically reviewed proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper managements allocation of costs between operating returns adequate for our audit have not been received expenditure, ore stockpiles and capital expenditure to from branches not visited by us: or assess the allocation of such costs based on the nature the financial statements are not in agreement with the of the underlying activity, supported by sample based accounting records and returns: or verification and tests of controls: we evaluated managements impairment models we have not received all the information and explanations against Life of Mine plans and our understanding of the we require for our audit.
operations, and critically challenged the key estimates and assumption used by management in each discounted Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of cash flow model.
Our testing included comparison of the corporate governance statement relating to the companys the gold price forecasts to forward gold price data and compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate analyst forecasts, recalculation of discount rates for the Governance Code specified for our review.
assets by our valuation specialists and critical review of the forecast cost and production profiles against approved Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to mine plans and empirical performance.
The impairment you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: models and sensitivity analysis prepared by management materially inconsistent with the information in the audited indicated that no impairment charges were required and financial statements: or that each had headroom.
We challenged managements apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially sensitivity assessments and performed our own sensitivity inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired calculations along with considering the appropriateness of in the course of performing our audit: or related disclosures given in note 3: is otherwise misleading.
we performed tests of controls and additional substantive procedures in respect of the accounting treatment and In particular, we are required to consider whether we have presentation of the groups joint venture interests as equity accounted joint ventures.
This included critical identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge assessment of the structure, legal form and contractual acquired during the audit and the directors statement rights and obligations of the group for the joint ventures that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and in assessing managements conclusion that the joint understandable and whether the annual report appropriately ventures should be equity accounted.
We assessed the discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit appropriateness of the detailed disclosures relating to the committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
presentation of financial information: we assessed the overall control environment of the group, including staff whistleblowing arrangements.
We interviewed senior management including the groups internal audit manager.
We remained sceptical and considered the risk of fraud and management bias Scott McNaughton Responsible Individual when evaluating significant accounting estimates and For and on behalf of arrangements.
We also carried out journal entry testing BDO LLP and considered the appropriateness of accounting policy Chartered accountants and recognised auditors selections for evidence of management override or bias: London and 14 March 2014 our audit also included evaluation of the appropriateness of management assumptions and estimates used BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and within the life of mine plans and their impact on mining Wales with registered number OC305127.
asset depreciation, rehabilitation provisions and asset Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 179 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013 Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 Note 2013 Restated Revenue Gold sales on spot 1 137 690 1 183 127 Total revenue 1 137 690 1 183 127 Other income 22 6 028 12 555 Total income 1 143 718 1 195 682 Costs and expenses Mining and processing costs 22 678 456 588 376 Transport and refining costs 2 663 2 718 Royalties 58 415 59 710 Exploration and corporate expenditure 23 49 485 39 033 Total costs 789 019 689 837 Finance income 24 1 242 2 048 Finance costs 24 7 737 984 Finance costs income net 24 6 495 1 064 Share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures 10 54 257 40 927 Profit before income tax 402 461 547 836 Income tax expense 4 76 714 37 054 Profit for the period 325 747 510 782 Other comprehensive expense Loss on available-for-sale financial assets 1 173 2 919 Share of equity accounted joint ventures other comprehensive expense 10 400 182 Total other comprehensive expense 1 573 3 101 Total comprehensive income 324 174 507 681 Profit Attributable to: Owners of the parent 278 382 431 801 Non-controlling interests 47 365 78 981 325 747 510 782 Total comprehensive income Attributable to: Owners of the parent 276 809 428 700 Non-controlling interests 47 365 78 981 324 174 507 681 Basic earnings per share US$ 6 3.02 4.70 Diluted earnings per share US$ 6 2.98 4.65 Average shares in issue 000 92 213 91 911 Following the introduction and adoption of IFRS11 Joint arrangements, the group changed its accounting policy on joint ventures from 1 January 2013 with prior periods restated accordingly.
Refer to page 186 of this annual report for further details.
The notes on pages 185 to 223 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
