Meeting date Main activities 27 January 2013 R eviewed the groups fourth quarter preliminary announcement, draft report and accounts for 2012 and the groups assessment of going concern.
C onsidered a dividend in light of the financial results for 2012 and subsequently proposed the declaration of a dividend.
R eviewed accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements.
R eviewed key accounting estimates and judgements for the 2012 financial statements including accounting for stripping costs, carrying value of assets, tax claims, TVA recoverability, provisions, and priority dividends.
C onsidered reports from the external auditor on its audit and its review of the 2012 accounts including accounting policies and areas of judgement, and its comments on control matters, significant risks and corporate governance matters.
A ssessed the independence of the external auditor for 2012.
M et with the external auditor without management being present.
A pproved the audit committee report for 2012.
R eviewed and approved the groups non-audit services policy.
Approved the audit committees terms of reference.
C onsidered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
R eviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and Sarbanes - Oxley Act 2002 SOX compliance.
Reviewed and approved the internal audit strategy and plan for 2013.
Reviewed the performance of internal audit.
Reviewed the groups insurance update.
12 March 2013 R eviewed and approved the annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
26 March 2013 R eviewed and approved the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2012, including discussion with the external auditors and detailed evaluation of that report.
28 April 2013 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the first quarter 2013.
R eviewed key accounting judgements and restatement of prior year results as a result of the adoption of IFRS 11.
R eviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SOX compliance.
Considered an update report from the external auditor.
Reviewed the groups treasury policy and recommended amendments to be made.
R eviewed and considered a new revolving credit facility for the group and recommended its approval to the board.
4 August 2013 Reviewed the groups interim management statement for the second quarter 2013.
Reviewed reports from internal audit on the effectiveness of internal controls and SOX compliance.
C onsidered the risk management update and risk review for the year, including considerations on risks facing the business.
Met with internal audit without management being present.
R eceived an update from the CFO in relation to the new financial reporting system implementation across the group.
3 November 2013 R eviewed the groups interim management statement for the third quarter of 2013.
Considered and approved the group annual insurance renewal.
Approved the proposed external audit scope and fees for 2013.
Considered reports from management relating to tax, TVA, risk factors, litigation and treasury.
C onsidered the performance of the external auditor, assessed its independence, qualication, expertise and resources, the effectiveness of the audit process and partner rotation: considered the appointment of BDO LLP for 2013 and recommended its appointment to the board.
Received an update from the external auditor on accounting, reporting and governance developments.
Reviewed the groups whistleblowing matters raised during 2013.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 135 Audit committee report continued The audit committee is regularly updated on proposed and external auditors performance and the effectiveness of the new legislation and best practice in which the committee has audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework of the detailed audit committees terms of engagement and agreed an interest.
During 2013, the audit committee was informed audit scope and approach.
Management receives regular of applicable governance and reporting changes or proposed changes which these included, but were not limited to, feedback from the business on the audit process and the audit amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code, revisions committee uses this feedback along with other formal and informal processes to assess the effectiveness of the external to ISA700, on-going developments with Dodd Frank legislation audit process, including seeking feedback from BDO on any and SEC Publish what you pay.
Other pertinent information external quality review of the BDO audit.
The audit committee and reports which are presented to the committee are also considers audit quality during the planning stages, required typically by internal staff, general counsel, external execution and after the completion of the audit by reviewing consultants and external auditors.
To assist management the quality and scope of the audit planning and its reaction in providing the information to allow the audit committee to to changes in our business and environment: considering discharge its responsibilities, the groups CFO, other executive the auditors methodology: sector experience: their ability to management, external auditors and the head of internal audit, challenge management of significant areas of judgement: and regularly attend audit committee meetings.
demonstration of such robust challenge around key areas.
The audit committee and the board derive considerable value In line with professional standards, BDO rotates the audit from engagement with the operational management teams engagement partner every five years: the current audit partner and discussing first hand with management the core control, has acted as the BDO audit engagement partner to the group risk identification and risk mitigation processes in place at the for two years.
In January 2013 the board visited the Kibali gold mine in the DRC and in January 2014 the Loulo gold mine in The audit committee makes recommendations to the board in Mali, during which time they inspected the operations and relation to the appointment, re-appointment and any changes engaged with the on-site group management extensively.
BDO were appointed in 2007 following a formal review and tendering process.
In 2011, the board Going concern assessment responsibilities established a formal policy relating to the periodic review of The committee consider the going concern basis of preparation the external auditors, which stipulates that the external audit for the financial statements to be appropriate having reviewed shall be put out to formal tender every five years with the next cash flow forecasts prepared by management and challenged planned tender following the 2016 financial year.
During the the assumptions used in such forecasts.
Refer to page 176 of tender process the audit committee will review the credentials this annual report for further details.
of other providers of external audit services as well as the incumbent auditors, along with other pertinent information, Audit committee evaluation and conclude on their capability to conduct the audit while The audit committee conducts a formal review of its delivering a high quality and cost effective audit service.
Taking effectiveness on an annual basis and concluded that its into account the output of the audit committees review of performance during 2013 was effective.
Details of the board the groups external auditors independence and objectivity, and committee evaluation process may be found on page 128 and the effectiveness of the audit process, together with of this annual report.
other relevant review processes conducted throughout the year, the audit committee is satisfied to recommend that the The board adopted the audit committees terms of reference board proposes to shareholders that BDO be re-appointed on 30 January 2012 and following a review by the audit as external auditors to the group.
Their re-appointment will committee on 27 January 2013 and again on 30 January be recommended to shareholders at the companys AGM in 2014, the audit committee agreed its terms of reference did May 2014.
There are no contractual restrictions on the boards not require amendment.
A copy of the audit committees ability to appoint alternative external auditors.
terms of reference is available on the companys website www.
The external auditors are regularly invited to attend and participate in audit committee meetings to report on their External audit activities.
The audit committee met with the external auditor, The groups external auditors are BDO LLP BDO.
The external without the executive directors or management being present.
auditors from BDO undertake their audits at all the groups Such meetings took place in January 2013, November 2013 and significant operations including any joint venture operations as January 2014.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors well as at the corporate offices.
The audit committee monitors are shown below.
The audit committee approved the auditors the external auditors independence and objectivity taking into fees for 2013 after reviewing the audit plan, level and nature of account relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
work to be performed as detailed in the audit scope and after Both the board and the external auditor have safeguards in being satisfied that the fees were appropriate for the work place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and required.
The external auditors independence is reviewed on at least an annual basis.
Auditors' fees US$ 2013 2012 Audit services 1 145 657 1 150 352 The audit committee is committed to maintaining the highest Non-audit services - - standards of audit quality.
The audit committee monitors the 136 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources around financial processes and controls in relation to the SOX Safeguards on non-audit services work performed in the year and that the internal audit function The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and has had full access to all areas of the group and is of good reviewing the objectivity and independence of the external standing within the organisation.
The board notes that no audit which is supported by a policy which stipulates cost effective system can preclude all errors and irregularities that the external auditor is prohibited from providing and therefore the groups system of internal controls provides non-audit services to the group.
In line with the audit reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material committees policy during the year no non-audit services misstatement or loss.
On 27 January 2013 and again on 30 January 2014 the audit committee reafrmed that policy.
Anti-corruption and business integrity The group prohibits bribery and corruption in all forms Internal audit throughout its business and those of its contractors and Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control suppliers.
The groups code of conduct and its general processes operated by management.
It carries out independent conditions of contract assist its business and employees in audits in accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed countering bribery, corruption and unethical behaviour.
The with the audit committee at the beginning of each financial group considers and addresses bribery and corruption risks year.
The internal audit plan agenda is driven by the groups as part of its ongoing risk management process, which includes assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, which are performing appropriate due diligence when engaging third contained on pages 138 to 145 of this annual report.
The head parties, entering into partnerships and joint ventures and of internal audit has responsibility to the audit committee updating that due diligence periodically during the relationship.
and has direct access to members of the audit committee, the chairman of the audit committee and the chairman of As in previous years, the group continued with its the board.
The head of internal audit attended four audit whistleblowing programme at all its operations and sites.
committee meetings during the year.
At these meetings the This programme allows all staff and contractors to raise any audit committee considered and discussed various committee concerns about the groups business practices, condentially.
reports, internal audit plans, SOX and internal audit reports The programme is monitored by the audit committee and and internal audit findings.
ensures that the groups general counsels contact details are widely distributed among its operations and sites, and During the year the audit committee held discussions with the highlighted periodically to staff and contractors, to allow any head of internal audit without the presence of management as person who has information regarding unethical practice well as outside of the formal committee processes.
The head within the group to contact the groups general counsel.
of internal audit works across the group with responsibility for All reports received by the general counsel are treated in reviewing, evaluating, developing and providing assurance on confidence and are either investigated by the general counsel the adequacy of the internal control environment, operating or referred to an appropriate line manager or the internal audit efficiency and risk identication and management across all of the groups operations while reporting back to the audit function for investigation and resolution, depending on the seriousness of the information received by the general counsel.
The audit committee is also responsible for the oversight of the groups compliance activities in relation The audit committee considers the whistleblowing procedures to section 404 of SOX, under which internal audit report to the in place to be appropriate for the group.
However, these committee on each quarter.
procedures are periodically reviewed by the audit committee During the year the major focus of internal audit was on from time to time to ensure that appropriate safeguards the businesss implementation of a new financial reporting to protect whistleblowers are in place and maintained.
Suspected fraudulent incidences which are identied under system: the review of the effectiveness of group procedures this programme are investigated by internal audit and reported and controls: the evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls: and reviews of various group activities and on directly to the audit committee.
operations, covering a variety of financial, operational, strategic and compliance related business processes.
In 2013, a formal The committee reviews the outcomes of such investigations, internal audit plan, which was reviewed and approved by the and has done so in the past year in line with its responsibilities, audit committee, was executed across the groups operations in order to assure itself that such instances are appropriately using internal resources and supplemented through the addressed and controls in place are effective.
engagement of external practitioners upon specified terms.
The executive management continues to undertake regular The company has adopted policies pursuant to the United reviews of various parts of the groups operations and the States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, United States contents of their reports are submitted to the audit committee Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection and board for comment when necessary.
Act of 2010 Dodd Frank Act, the United Kingdoms Bribery Act 2010 and Corruption Jersey Law 2006.
All the groups The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of the groups operations and sites, key employees, customers, major internal audit function during the year, nding that sufficient suppliers, managers and other key stakeholders have been work had been undertaken providing effective assurance briefed, through written notification and where possible Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 137 Audit committee report continued through workshops with management, concerning the 404 of SOX and the United States Disclosure Rules and implication of the policies and the companys obligations Transparency Rules.
The management of the company, which under that legislation.
The company continues to work with its is responsible under SOX for establishing and maintaining external legal counsel regarding the effects of the Dodd Frank an adequate system of internal controls over consolidated Act and any applicable regulations which have been published.
financial reporting, evaluated the effectiveness of that system using the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Control environment Treadway Commission COSO framework 1992.
Based on The group maintains a sound system of internal control which that evaluation, the management of the company concludes is imbedded at all its operations and sites, as part of the boards in its annual report on Form 20-F led with the SEC that the commitment to the long term success of the company and the system of internal control over consolidated financial reporting protection of the value of its reputation and assets in order to was effective as at 31 December 2013. safeguard the interests of its shareholders.
Risk management An effective system of operational and financial controls, The board is responsible for determining the nature and including the maintenance of qualitative financial records, is an extent of the significant risks the group has to manage in order important element of the groups internal control.
The system to achieve its strategic objectives.
The board believes in the of internal control provides reasonable rather than absolute maintenance of sound risk management and internal control assurance that the groups business objectives will be achieved systems.
within the risk tolerance levels dened by the board.
Every year, the board reviews the effectiveness of the groups The board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of risk management and internal control systems, which cover internal control and risk management and discharges its duties all material financial, operational, compliance, reputational through determining the risk appetite of the business and its and sustainable development risks.
This review relies on risk tolerance, as detailed in the risk management section, as assessments undertaken by the audit committee and such well as overseeing the risk management strategy and ensuring reviews occurred throughout the 2013 financial year.
Risk is that management is responsible for maintaining the established control environment.
The groups executive committee managed by means of the risk management triangle shown develops and monitors the internal control environment and alongside.
The board, at the pinnacle of the triangle, has also oversees risk management including the identification of reserved for its approval the management of risk.
The board risks and development and implementation of risk mitigation considers the groups strategic plan annually and when issues plans.
The executive committee has established a strategic arise which may affect the strategic plan.
In addition, at its planning, budgeting and forecasting system against which it quarterly meetings the board considers the companys fivemonitors monthly financial and operational information along year plan, group valuation and the groups corporate models with trading results and cash flow information.
On a quarterly for this purpose.
basis, the executive management review performance against budget and forecast along with financial and operational At the audit committee meeting held in August 2013, the reviews and analysis of material variances at local mine board committee reviewed the annual risk register and the risk meetings and also report performance and findings to the management framework which is used by the board and group board.
management to identify key risks facing the group, and considered whether those risks are appropriately managed.
The audit committee reviews the internal control process, The risk register was presented to the audit committee by the including quarterly financial reporting, and its effectiveness head of internal audit following its update in conjunction with on an annual basis to ensure it remains robust in identifying senior management.
The risk register and framework use the control weaknesses as well as to comply with SOX and internal companys existing risk matrix and universal risk prioritisation audit requirements.
The group is focused on maintaining a and rating scale, which grade and prioritise perceived and sound system of internal control, based on the groups policies, known risks.
The risk register assists management in identifying procedures and guidelines, in all operations.
and assessing the key risks facing the business.
Features of the risk register include the risk area: the actual risk: detail This review includes quarterly reports from the head of internal regarding responsibility: the inherent risk assessment: controls audit in respect of findings from internal control reviews and and mitigation in place: and the residual risk assessment.
The testing, assurances obtained in relation to the certications inherent risk assessment features two key components, the required under SOX necessary for the companys NASDAQ first being a measure of probability and the second a measure listing and other assurances from regular management of the impact were such a risk to arise.
The audit committee reviews as appropriate.
acknowledges there are many risks inherent to a mining The group carried out an assessment of its internal control business that will always exist and the challenge is to manage over consolidated financial reporting pursuant to Section them effectively.
138 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources By its nature, the risk register is a dynamic document subject market those aspects which could have a material effect on to change.
However, it is used by management to perform the companys business.
their duties while at the same time allowing the internal audit function to review and evaluate the activities of management in The board identified and assessed the principal risk factors their efforts to control issues of risk and assess whether these and uncertainties which it considers either individually or in activities are sufficient for the mitigation and management of combination as having the potential to have a material adverse risk.
effect on the groups business.
The groups strategy takes into account known risks but there may be additional risks The companys management team was actively involved in unknown to the group and other risks, currently believed all the groups operations throughout the year, including to be immaterial, which could develop into material risks.
numerous visits to the groups sites and operations, attending Full details relating to the groups industry generally can monthly meetings with general managers and weekly be found in the annual report on Form 20-F filed with the meetings with other senior members of staff, in each case to SEC, a copy of which is available on the companys website discuss critical issues affecting the operations, all of which are www.
undertaken to assist in reducing the groups risk exposure.
From its assessment the board has itemised several key risks, As part of the preparation of the companys annual report including the Key Performance Indicators KPIs and how these on Form 20-F, which is filed with the SEC, the substantial risk are being managed.
These risks are outlined on pages 140 to factors are again identified and set out, highlighting to the 143 of this annual report.
Risk management triangle Board Charter Board Group strategy Five-year plan and valuation Annual report and Form 20-F Quarterly reports Risk evaluation and assessment Audit committee Annual insurance review Internal audit reports Quarterly operational board meetings Executive Monthly management meetings committee and Treasury committee meetings management Weekly executive committee meetings Environmental, health and safety committee meetings Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 139 Audit committee report continued Key risks and uncertainties External risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Gold price volatility Realised gold price Earnings and cash flow Long term financial The group constantly monitors the market volatility from sudden or strategy and monitoring.
The internal treasury significant declines in the Treasury policies.
committees responsibilities include gold price or reserves monitoring and discussing the gold price downgrades as a result of which are reported to the executive changes in the gold price.
Forecasting and budgeting assumptions relating to commodities are prudent and monitored by the board and executive committee.
Risk: Country risk Total shareholder Inadequate monitoring Policies to ensure that Successful relationships with return performance of in-country political the group is meeting governments, senior in-country officials instability and changes the terms of its agreed and other key external stakeholders to political environment and signed licences are built and maintained.
This includes may impact the ability to and conventions.
Indelivering on and adhering to agreements.
country monitoring and The group actively monitors regulatory stakeholder management and political developments as well as the policies.
country risk ratings on a continuous basis.
Risk: Corporate, social and environmental responsibility Total shareholder Poor management of Social and environmental Attention is placed on maintaining return performance stakeholder, community policies.
Commitment sound relations with local communities and government to improvement of and working with these groups to expectations and a lack communities.
The of corporate and social communication with groups environmental committee, responsibility may lead stakeholders.
under the chairmanship of the CEO, to the inability to sustain continues to address these issues and operations in the area reports quarterly to the board.
Review and impact on the of stakeholder relations at executive groups ability to expand committee meetings.
Regular dialogue into other regions.
with the affected communities by senior executives.
Risk: Supply routes Total shareholder Due to the remote Stock cover policies with Utilisation of local partners and knowledge return performance location of the groups minimum levels set for of the region.
Buffer stocks maintained operations the disruption operations.
Alternative of supply routes may to local and regional supply routes tested and utilised.
cause delays with partnerships from construction and ongoing executive level.
140 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Financial risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Production and capital cost control Cash cost per ounce.
Failure to control Budgeting and reporting Comprehensive budgeting process Capital expenditure cash costs per ounce processes.
Project encompassing all expenditure approved and cost management will result in reduced approval process.
for all major expenditure and capital Return on capital inability to monitor expenditures.
capital expenditure expenditure incurred made with approved and progress of capital budgets only.
Review of expenditure projects resulting in against budget on regular basis and financial losses and reporting to the board and executive overspend on projects.
Risk: Insufficient liquidity, inappropriate financial strategy and inability to access funding from global credit and capital markets Liquidity prole The group may be Financial strategy, The board closely monitors the groups required to seek funding cash forecasting and operational performance and cash from the global credit management.
Capital flows against plan, along with a fiveand capital markets to forecasting and year forecast.
This assists the board in develop its operations monitoring.
understanding the variety of risks facing and projects.
The the group and the likelihood that future recent weaknesses in external funding might be required.
This those markets could advanced understanding of the cash adversely affect the requirements of the group allows the groups ability to obtain board to manage the risks of sourcing nancing and capital funding in difficult market conditions.
The resources required by group limits exposure on liquid funds the business.
through a treasury policy of minimum counterparty credit ratings, counterparty settlement limits and exposure diversication.
Risk: In-country tax regimes Taxation related fines Failure to adapt to Use of experts to review The board regularly monitors tax or penalties changes in tax regimes changes in legislation and positions and changes in conjunction and regulations may tax regulations.
Regular with management and where necessary result in fines, financial meetings with government engages experts.
The chief executive losses and corporate officials.
Review of officer and chief financial officer, along with reputational damage.
regulatory lings to ensure in-country executives, regularly engage Failure to react to tax compliance.
with tax authorities and governments notications from to address the impact of any proposed authorities could result changes to taxation or scal regimes.
in financial losses or the Where necessary the company will seek seizure of assets.
Inability to enforce legislation over tax or incorrectly applied legislation could result in lengthy arbitration and loss of profits or company assets.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 141 Audit committee report continued Operational risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Sustained resource and exploration failure Resources and The groups mining Resources and reserves The group publishes its resources and reserves operations may yield committee.
Resources reserves calculations based on gold less gold under actual and reserves policy.
prices which are lower than the current production conditions Adherence to industry market prices.
Review at committee and than indicated by its gold standards.
board level of the gold price during the reserves gures, which year as well as any changes to the cost are estimates based on a of production.
Close monitoring and number of assumptions, reconciliation of resource to mined ore on including mining and a continuous basis.
recovery factors, production costs and gold price.
Risk: Environmental, health, safety and security incident No significant Failure to maintain Environmental, health, Formal safety system in place.
environmental, health safety and security and certication of training.
Reporting Lost Time Injury and safety standards policies.
Environmental, procedures in place with breaches Frequency Rates.
resulting in a significant health, safety and reported to the executive committee if environmental or safety security team.
necessary on a weekly basis and quarterly incident or deterioration Monitoring system of reporting to the board.
Leadership in safety incident rates incidents.
accountability for incidents throughout or deterioration in safety the group by setting of environmental, performance standards health and safety performance targets.
resulting in loss of life or Use of external experts in respect of significant loss of time environmental, health, safety and security and disruption or damage matters.
Risk: Risks associated with underground mining Ore tonnes produced.
The groups underground Annual business plan.
Assistance with the underground Cost per tonne.
projects at the Loulo Monthly reporting.
operations from a third party mining gold mine in Mali and at Annual strategic review.
Close management by the Kibali gold mine in executive team and monthly review of the Democratic Republic performance against budget.
Board of Congo are subject to review of actual performance against plan the risks associated with on a continuous basis.
underground mining which may affect the profitability of the group.
142 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Strategic risks KPI Impact Policies and systems Mitigation Risk: Lack of identification of new exploration targets Resources and Lack of identication Exploration project Continuous management, review and reserves statement of new exploration pipeline and evaluation monitoring of the exploration targets by targets may lead to a policies.
Long term management and board including use loss of revenue and business strategy and of the resource triangle which identies an inability to grow investment in exploration the number of exploration targets and and meet strategic activities.
the stage of development of an asset.
Exploration Regular review of exploration activities and development are by executive committee.
Board review of costly activities with no exploration targets on a quarterly basis.
guarantee of success, but are necessary for future growth of the group.
Risk: Failure to attract and retain key staff and poor succession planning Staff turnover The loss of key staff, the Succession planning.
Executive team conducts formal 360 lack of internal succession HR policies, training and reviews of teams against performance planning and the failure development of staff.
Communication mechanisms to attract appropriate in place to ensure grievances are reported staff may cause short and resolved.
Executive and employee term disruption to the incentive schemes in place.
Board review business and operations.
of manpower situation on a continuous basis, which includes review of market trends and skills analysis, as well as approval from board for action to be taken where gaps have been identied.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 143 Audit committee report continued Country ranking system Political stability As part of the risk management process and in fulfilment of its risk management responsibilities, management regularly Multiparty politics established and functioning A undertakes a detailed analysis of all countries in Africa, based accepted by general population and world bodies on the following formulated mechanism, which is presented No serious underlying ethnic conflicts and agreed with the audit committee and the board on an Low crime risk annual basis, as outlined on page 138 of this annual report.
Freedom of press Functioning civil service Ranking is dependent on a qualitative assessment combining: Geological opportunity Recent multiparty politics to benevolent nonB Economic and fiscal regime representative government Political stability General population acceptance of government Infrastructure.
Low level of political unrest Dissatisfaction with non-representative government C Geological opportunity Some political unrest and or sporadic rebellion Potential for reserves of plus 3Moz Totalitarian government A Known gold potential General unrest, severe repression, civil war D Extensive mineralised sequences of: No centralised controlling government Archaean or Lower Proterozoic or Infrastructure Cenozoic to recent in accreted terraines island arcs Readily available geoscientific data Good access and telecommunications links and A GPRS mobile Gold potential of plus 3Moz B Terrain easily traversable No significant new projects in the pipeline Access to grid power and or hydropower Some known gold potential Perennial water Geology is sufficiently known or understood C Reasonably easy access B Fairly good telecommunications Little prospective geology D Pipeline and dam required for water Potential for grid power and hydro sites or infrastructure good enough to support own thermal Economic and fiscal regime power stations Clearly defined and implemented minerals policy A No maintained infrastructure C where the state shares in, but does not control, the Telecommunications uncertain and slow mineral industry Access to remote areas made difficult by desert or Acceptable mining and tax legislation including tropical rain forest reasonable royalties and free carried rides which, if higher, are offset by tax holidays Access only practical by air D Communications only possible by radio satellite links Security of tenure and guaranteed right-to-mine No power Acceptable foreign exchange regulations Ability to move management and technical skills in Overall ranking and out of the country Country actively targeted for exploration and Close adherence to World Bank principles A development opportunities Availability of foreign investment insurance Randgold will invest in grassroots projects Will establish an office and acquire goods State participation required in mining industry but B investors still control their business Will invest in existing projects where the potential B Economy stable with moderate inflation for deposits that meet Randgolds criteria have been demonstrated Bribery generally not prevalent in country Early risk must be taken out of exploration Opportunity to joint venture to reduce risk exposure Major state control of mining industry C Economy unstable with excessive inflation Country in state of change C Bribery common in all areas of business Country to be monitored if geology ranks A for No set rules or regulation improvement in the other three criteria D Major state interference and control of all aspects of the official economy No investment to be made D Bribery very common in all areas of business The possibility of change considered to be long term 144 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Country ranking Tunisia Morocco Algeria Libya Egypt Western Sahara Mauritania Mali Niger Sudan Eritrea Chad Senegal Burkino Faso Guinea Bissau Guinea Benin Nigeria Togo South Ethiopia Ivory Sierra Leone Ghana Central Sudan Coast African Republic Liberia Cameroon Somalia Eq.
Guinea Uganda Kenya Congo Gabon Democratic Rwanda Republic of Burundi Congo Tanzania A Angola Malawi Zambia B C Zimbabwe Mozambique Madagascar D Namibia Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South Africa group uses conventional financial instruments to manage Treasury management these risks.
Cash management is a key focus for the group.
The role of group treasury is to manage and monitor the groups external In 2013, the focus of the treasury committee was to manage and internal funding requirements as well as financial risks to counterparty risk with banks and other financial institutions support the groups strategic objectives.
Treasury activities where the group places cash deposits, as well as ensuring the are governed by policies and procedures approved by the groups cash resources were appropriately managed to meet audit committee and where necessary by the board.
The most the substantial capital expenditure requirements, given the recent amendments to the treasury policy were approved by lower average received gold price.
As part of this process, the the board in January 2014. company put in place in May 2013 a US$200 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks led by HSBC The company has put in place a treasury committee, chaired which matures in May 2016 and at present is undrawn.
The treasury committee oversees the compliance of the terms of by the companys chief financial officer, which meets on a this facility.
monthly basis to review the groups treasury activities.
Its members receive management information relating to the Unless specific dispensation is obtained from the audit groups treasury activities.
The committee recommends committee, the group treasury policy ensures surplus cash is group policy, relating to all aspects of funding, management placed with institutions with credit ratings of: of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures, hedging A and higher, on strict terms concerning placement and other financial risk management, to the audit committee duration maximum three months with no more than 5% at least every six months for approval.
It also coordinates or US$12.5 million whichever is the higher being placed relationships with banks, rating agencies and other financial with any one institution noting that no investment can institutions.
The committee monitors all significant treasury exceed US$25 million: or activities undertaken by the group companies and ensures AAand higher, on strict terms concerning placement duration maximum three months with no more than 20% compliance with the groups treasury policy.
or US$50 million whichever is the higher being placed with any one institution noting that no investment can exceed The overall objective of the treasury committee is to effectively US$100 million.
manage credit risk, financial risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risks and other market risks in accordance with the groups Credit ratings and market information are continually reviewed strategy.
Other responsibilities of the treasury committee by the treasurer to ensure the treasury committee is kept aware include safeguarding and managing the groups cash resources of all necessary information pertinent to ensuring effective and funding programmes, approval of counterparties and management of the groups cash resources.
The group also relevant transaction limits, ensuring the most competitive uses a Fiduciary Deposit Service provided by Rothschild Bank return on surplus cash resources, and the monitoring of all International to assist with the flow and quality of market significant treasury activities undertaken by the group.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 145 Remuneration report Dear shareholder Randgold has overcome some challenges in 2013 to once again deliver record production and strong results.
We increased production by 15%, and reduced total cash cost per ounce by 3%.
In the year ahead, the group is targeting another big step-up in production of approximately 30% on the back of the work that the group undertook in 2013 and in prior years.
This continued growth evidences the success of the companys long term strategy.
The final dividend for the 2013 financial year we are proposing is US$0.50 per share, the same as the dividend declared in respect of the 2012 financial year, which considering the volatility of the gold industry over the year demonstrates the long term confidence we have in our business.
Randgold again outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index formerly the HSBC Global Gold Index by 15% during 2013, as well as outperforming its peers as set out in the graph on page 147 of this annual report.
An investment of US$100 in Randgold shares on 1 January 2009 would have been worth US$146 on 31 December 2013 compared with an equivalent investment in the Euromoney Global Gold Index which would have been worth US$66 over the same period.
Randgolds remuneration policy has always been based on the objective of ensuring that the companys executive remuneration policy encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value, something we believe has helped drive our long term outperformance over the past decade.
Our long term plan has been simplified and now has a performance measurement period of four years and requires a holding period of one year beyond that performance measurement period for 100% of the vested award.
While our past performance is outstanding we continue to look to the future growing capacity and maintaining quality the company is currently entering a critical development phase in its business, growing capacity through the operation and completion of the construction of the new Kibali gold mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Kibali is the largest project undertaken to date by Randgold, with a reserve base at 12Moz and still growing.
It ranks as one of the largest gold mines in Africa and will add significant future long term sustainable value to Randgold and to our shareholders.
Norborne P Cole Jr Chairman, remuneration committee 146 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources This report sets out our remuneration policy for directors to the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the United appropriately reward value delivery by our executives and Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority.
encourage long term sustainable growth for our shareholders.
It also comments on the approach to remuneration for other We have increased disclosure in our directors remuneration senior executives.
In formulating its policy, Randgold has report this year with some additional disclosures to further followed international best practice and good corporate align the company with international best practice.
The remuneration policy provides for stretching regard, we have followed and developed the approach performance targets for the delivery of reward based variable that we took in our 2012 directors remuneration short term and long term incentive plans for Randgolds report in having three separate sections: this annual executive directors.
statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee, a policy section, and an annual report on remuneration.
Following extensive shareholder consultation by the remuneration committee, the principal points to note for our director remuneration and awards under the incentive plans Further, the board at its January 2014 meeting took the decision for 2014 are as follows: to have a one year remuneration policy period and two annual Restricted Share Scheme: three tranches over three, four votes for shareholders: one ordinary resolution in respect and five years has been simplified to one tranche over four of the policy section, and one ordinary resolution in respect years with the retention period for vested shares to be one of the annual report on remuneration.
incorporated in Jersey, voting on the policy section and on the Restricted Share Scheme: performance metrics simplified annual report on remuneration shall be advisory rather than from four to three, namely EPS growth, additional on a binding basis, with the policy section becoming effective reserves including reserve replacement and absolute TSR.
from 6 May 2014, the date of the companys next annual The same performance ranges for each performance general meeting.
The board will take due notice of shareholder metric used for the 2013 awards are to be used for the feedback on the policy and it is the boards intention to 2014 awards.
We will review the performance metrics and ranges in 2014 and intend consulting with shareholders on operate in line with the approved policy.
This will allow for any proposed changes for the 2015 awards.
ongoing involvement of our shareholders with the companys Restricted Share Scheme and Co-investment Plan: remuneration policies and practices.
We welcome dialogue three year claw back period introduced to reflect similar with our shareholders on the remuneration of our executive provisions in respect of the annual bonus.
directors and appreciate our shareholders continued support.
Annual Bonus: addition of malus provisions to allow the remuneration committee discretion based on the overall Yours sincerely performance of the company.
Chief financial officer: base salary increased by 5% following equivalent salary increases among senior management.
The remuneration report has been prepared by the Norborne P Cole Jr remuneration committee and was approved by the board for the year ended 31 December 2013, in accordance with Chairman, remuneration committee Share price performance Rebased to Randgold US$ 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Source: Bloomberg Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 147 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Randgold US$ Spot gold Newcrest Goldcorp Barrick Gold Newmont Kinross Gold AngloGold Remuneration report continued have been developed to support its business and its corporate Directors remuneration policy culture.
Randgold is a unique entrepreneurial company Executive remuneration principles and focused on Africa and growing value through discovery and philosophy development that has at its heart the creation of value for all Background stakeholders.
Randgold operates in a variety of international markets and jurisdictions.
In formulating its principles, the regulatory Randgolds alignment with shareholder value creation requirements of Jersey, the United Kingdom and the United encourages empowerment, energy, ownership and States were taken into account and the company has followed responsibility, as well as a results based growth culture.
international best practice and good corporate governance.
Randgolds remuneration plans support this through The companys executive remuneration principles provide the encouraging investment and ownership in the business, as underlying standards from which the remuneration policies well as setting stretching performance targets for the delivery or goals are based.
The remuneration principles are applied of reward-based variable short term and long term incentive across the group and the remuneration policy is applied to plans for its executive directors, non-executive directors and the executive and non-executive directors.
are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee or at such other times as the remuneration committee considers Objective necessary.
To ensure Randgolds principles on directors remuneration, encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of sustainable Randgolds business strategy for success is enduring, consistent, sustainable and long established, as is the people value to the companys shareholders, and its other stakeholders strategy and the remuneration objective and principles that in the host countries where the company operates.
Remuneration principles Principles Long term success Building sustainable long term value for shareholders and other stakeholders is the key overriding objective.
Accordingly a significant proportion of our remuneration should be aligned to the long term success of the company through both shares and performance related awards.
In addition, to support the alignment with shareholders and the desired corporate culture of the company senior executives are encouraged to invest in and hold shares in the company.
Randgolds people Randgolds belief is that a key part of that value creation strategy is ensuring the company has the right people in the right places to deliver this value with the appropriate balance and alignment between the interests of shareholders and an attractive and appropriate reward package for its people.
Randgolds people are highly motivated and have energy and tenacity to achieve and succeed in delivering Randgolds long term vision.
Randgold believes in rewarding highly for delivering value, showing flexibility and mobility, as well as demonstrating a proactive entrepreneurial approach.
Randgold rewards high performance and alignment with Randgolds culture when it is consistently delivered, and consequently value to Randgold and its shareholders is seen as increasing from an individuals contribution.
Executive directors Competitive total remuneration is used to attract and retain high calibre executive directors, who have the necessary personal attributes, skills and experience to deliver the companys strategy in the environment within which it operates.
Randgold operates in the international mining industry and, specifically, the international gold mining industry.
Reward packages need to be commensurate with its comparator groups to attract and retain high calibre people with exceptional industry ability in mining and in Africa.
As well as being appropriately reflective of the industry, Randgolds pay philosophy is to ensure its entrepreneurial culture and principles are maintained by ensuring leverage through its variable pay plans.
Performance related pay Randgolds strategy of delivering value in Africa through its partnerships with other companies international and local, governments, Randgolds people and the people of Randgolds host countries in Africa is clear and this flows through to Randgolds performance in terms of its KPIs.
A significant proportion of total remuneration should therefore vary with performance aligning the executive directors with the interests of the companys shareholders and stakeholders.
Randgolds only material element of fixed remuneration will be base pay, supplemented by performance related short term and long term remuneration.
A high level of performance, measured with reference to predetermined objective criteria, shall be rewarded with higher levels of remuneration.
148 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Remuneration principles continued Principles Performance measures Financial and non-financial KPIs are Randgolds measurement of success and are reflected in its remuneration plans.
Randgold believes sustainable long term growth is a fundamental strength of its strategy, its people and its way of working.
Consequently, its long term incentive plans reward sustained and exceptional stretching performance over a three to five year period including the required holding period.
The use of stretching performance measures and key performance indicators are crucial to benchmark performance.
In terms of comparative performance, Randgold shall use relevant comparator groups.
Individual executive directors performance, pay and performance metrics and ranges shall be reviewed annually to ensure alignment with Randgolds business plans and its overriding objective.
Risk In addition to the delivery of sustainable value, remuneration arrangements should be aligned with Randgolds approach to sustainability and business risk management which takes into account the companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Expenses and benefits Our culture is to deliver value for shareholders as entrepreneurial agents.
Accordingly we reduce long term fixed elements of pay and as such there are no company funded pension plans within the company.
However, as a responsible employer, we support our workforce and executives in delivering social benefits related to workplace events or events whilst at work such as ill health and disability.
Any expenses incurred in the course of work are reimbursed.
Shareholding Ownership of shares in the company is encouraged and executive directors are expected to build a material shareholding in the company which over time will form a meaningful portion of reward and will align executive directors to shareholders interests.
Randgold will require each executive director to have a minimum shareholding in the company.
Recruitment The company shall not offer any more than is necessary to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre and experience.
If this is not available from within Randgold, the company may compensate a new executive director for forfeiture of salary and other remuneration from a previous employer on a comparable basis taking into account performance achieved or likely to be achieved and aligning this new executive director with other executive directors as far as possible.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment shall be clear, transparent, and shall be drafted by reference to best practice.
Where governance principles vary or conflict across relevant jurisdictions, the board will adopt what it considers to be the appropriate standards that reflect the overriding objective.
Termination payments On determining a loss of office payment consideration will be given to any contractual provisions, the circumstances under which an executive director leaves and the executive directors performance.
Whether a loss of office payment is made is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Non-executive chairman and directors To attract and retain a high calibre non-executive chairman and non-executive directors who have the necessary skills, experience and commitment, the company will offer competitive remuneration which recognises the time commitment and work required for the roles of non-executive chairman and non-executive directors.
Engaging with shareholders The non-executive directors shall maintain an open transparent dialogue with shareholders and regularly seek their views on the companys remuneration practices and policies.
Remuneration policy, practices and outcomes will be clearly explained in the context of performance, to the extent not commercially sensitive, and shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote by way of ordinary resolution on Randgolds remuneration policies and practices at least once a year as approval will be sought in relation to the directors remuneration report at each annual general meeting.
Fairness and judgement Appropriate judgement shall be applied by the remuneration committee in determining remuneration with consideration given to the conditions affecting the company, including the countries where the company operates, and where the executive directors are required to spend their time.
Given the company is incorporated in Jersey, this approval will be on an advisory rather than on a binding basis.
In line with the companys commitment to follow international best practice and good corporate governance, it is the boards intention to operate in line with the remuneration policy and the board will take due notice of shareholder feedback on this policy.
