FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT AND NOT HAVING TO RELY ON PUBLIC TRANSPORT TO WORK: In terms of a transport allowance scheme in place at all operations, Randgold purchases a motorbike moto for an employee, the cost of which is deducted in instalments from the employees monthly salary.
After the full amount is repaid, the transport allowance is reintroduced, allowing the employee to purchase fuel and maintain the moto.
The scheme has proved very successful among employees.
frameworks and management system requirements for promote comparable standards in contractors and associate all aspects of sustainability.
They include the use of the companies internationally recognised OHSAS 18001 standard for our Where appropriate we include achievement of sustainability health and safety management and ISO 14001 standard for targets as a component of bonus-based remuneration environmental management.
Both of which are independently packages.
For example, part of both our CEOs and CFOs audited.
annual bonus payments are dependent on achieving a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate of below 0.6%.
Other key policy commitments that govern all our projects include our overarching Code of Conduct including our Our value chain expectations on bribery, whistleblowing and fraud, Human Apart from a small percentage sold through the Malian Rights Policy and Conflict Free Gold Policy and these are company, Kankou Moussa SARL, all our gold is sold to described in more detail in this report and are available on Rand Refinery Pty Limited Rand Refinery, which has an the companys website at www.
We  reputation for integrity and ethics.
have zero tolerance for corruption and we do not offer, pay or accept bribes of any form.
Rand Refinery is able to certify that its entire chain of custody is responsible and conflict free, and this certification is Our  policies form a central part of independently audited.
Rand Refinery is also a member of induction training for all employees and contravention leads the World Gold Council and the Responsible Jewellery Council.
to automatic disciplinary action, including the potential This gives us assurance that the onward distribution of our termination of employment.
All staff, sub-contractors and gold, proceeds in a responsible way.
service providers acting on Randgolds behalf are expected to adopt and follow these standards and policies.
We also Randgold does not buy any minerals from artisanal miners.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 87 Creating sustainable economic value US$910 million total economic value distributed in 2013, an increase of 15% US$243 million revenue delivered for host states US$480 million spent on host country suppliers US$23.8 million spent on infrastructure around Kibali mine US$6 million potential of Morila agribusinesses by 2017 Our host countries are some of the least-developed countries in the world.
Our partnerships with them are based on the belief that through responsible development of the countrys natural resources we can help inspire economic renewal.
We see our role as creating economic value for all stakeholders over the entire life of a mine and beyond, which will in turn facilitate regional development.
Overview Our core activities make a significant contribution to the revenues delivered to host countries.
We create value through host country taxation on profits, employee taxes, indirect taxes, taxes paid by suppliers, investments in infrastructure and dividends through our joint ownership structures.
We supplement these core contributions with community-led projects in health, education and local economic development.
We aim to be entirely transparent about all payments to state entities and our full economic value statement can be seen below.
Economic value statement For the year end 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Economic value generated 3 Gold sales 1 266 712 1 317 830 3 Finance income 10 452 2 050 Sundry income net 4 394 5 318 1 Government portion of Morila dividends 4 500 18 000 Total economic value generated 1 286 058 1 343 198 Economic value distributed or to be distributed 4 Operating costs 459 137 391 682 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits before taxes 74 100 58 924 Economic value distributed Payments to providers of capital or to be distributed Dividends 46 137 36 737 US$ million 3 Finance costs 11 885 1 200 1 000 Payments to governments including corporate tax, 5 salary taxes, custom duties, dividends, etc 243 321 226 128 3 Exploration and corporate expenditure 51 858 40 641 800 2 Community investment 23 590 33 612 Total economic value distributed or to be distributed 910 028 789 924 600 Economic value retained and re-invested 376 030 554 275 The information in this economic value statement is extracted from the financial statements, underlying accounting records and other financial data.
This non-GAAP information is, however, intended to summarise the overall contribution of the group to its stakeholders and is not intended to replace or provide 400 an alternative to the audited IFRS financial statements.
1 This amount represents 50% of the dividends paid to the State of Mali, and is also included in Payments to governments.
The State of Malis attributable portion of the Morila operation is not included in the 200 Randgold financial statements.
2 Total spend on community development, including advantageous infrastructure development and philanthropy.
3 Refer to page 214 Note 16 Segmental information for information on this number.
0 4 Total cash costs excluding royalties, salaries, employment taxes and custom duties.
5 2010 2011 2012 2013 Figures include 50% of payments in respect of Morila and Kibali.
88 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources In 2013 we spent US$480 million on local suppliers.
To put these figures in context, our economic contribution to Working with suppliers Mali made up 9.8% of the total GDP of the country in 2013, while We multiply the economic benefits of our projects by prioritising in Cte dIvoire our single mine contributed approximately procurement from host country suppliers.
We always procure 1.3% of total GDP.
With Kibali now fully operational, we will also generate a substantial portion of GDP in the DRC.
We from local suppliers if the right level of expertise exists.
Where estimate that over their lifetime our mines will contribute more a local contractor is not able to meet the quality standards we than half of net revenues to host states.
At local community require, we try to facilitate skill training or mentoring support level, our mines provide the base of economic opportunities from leading international companies in order to build local as a potential employer, customer or supporter of local capacity.
For example, in 2013 we encouraged Shell to hold development.
workshops with Mali-based hydrocarbon suppliers Ben&Co and Petro Yara on transportation safety.
Locally based By helping to improve standards in our host countries, other contractors offer more security of supply, better value over world-class companies will also be attracted to invest.
the long term and help us achieve our strategic goal to grow together with our host countries.
This strategy is an integral part of our business.
By being a valued partner in development, we form strong relationships with key stakeholders, reinforce our social licence to operate All suppliers must respect our sustainability policies, and over the longer term and earn a credible voice in discussions mandatory clauses to uphold our human rights and antiaround mining codes and national expectations of the gold corruption policies are included in all supplier and contractor industry.
For example, all contractors at our Kibali mine are required to have an environmental, health and safety EHS officer in place, trained in our EHS policies and providing weekly updates on EHS performance or risk being removed from site.
This helps improve the quality and standards of local businesses and builds their capacity to access opportunities with other multinational companies in the future.
Where appropriate we also help build thriving African supply chains.
For example, in 2013 we connected local maize farmers in Orientale Province near Kibali with the World Food Programmes efforts to provide food relief in nearby South Sudan as well as with Nile Breweries in Uganda facilitating deals for the ongoing provision of 300 tonnes a year of grain Mali-based hydrocarbon supplier Ben&Co is a long standing business and construction of a permanent new grain storage facility.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 89 Sustainability report continued Abdul Aziz Alibhai, CEO of Simpo, commented: We are now Suppliers: Equipped for growth growing and because mines are long term projects we have Creating a fully operational gold mine in often remote locations the confidence to invest in newer, better equipment, which is requires a great deal of heavy lifting, and therefore some not always available in Africa.
None of our machines is more heavy-duty vehicles.
At our Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire, than three years of age, so they are more fuel efficient and Randgold has been using a local supplier, Simpo, since 2009 have less leakages.
to rent and maintain some of the heavy machinery required.
During construction and operation at Tongon this has ranged Randgold has also provided both formal and informal training from bulldozers to dump trucks and compactors.
to Simpo in areas such as environmental management.
Mr Alibhai says: We are learning everyday with Randgold.
They Based in Abidjan, Simpos story is typical of many companies insisted on their safety and environment standards, areas in Cte dIvoire.
It started in 1984 and thrived, reaching over like recycling and using local materials, and we are doing this 600 employees, until the civil war broke out in 1999.
By 2006, throughout our business now.
We cant ignore these green Simpos business was struggling to cope with events and was attitudes.
This is drilled into all our workers and supervisors reduced to only 95 employees.
via induction courses with Randgold everyone has to go on these, even me as CEO, and they are very useful.
Since 2007, however, the escalation of gold mining in the country has helped the company rebuild its prospects, and its Simpo has ambitious plans.
It is renting equipment to other work supplying Randgolds Tongon mine since 2009 has led to mining companies in Cte dIvoire and expanding new sectors, a step change in performance.
For example, Simpo supplied recently agreeing a contract with a French company building a US$3 million of products and services to Randgold in 2012, and bridge in Abidjan, and a Portuguese company set to build new US$4 million in 2011.
As of 2013 the companys workforce is homes in the country.
US$23.8 million in roads and power lines.
Our work to refurbish Behind the buzz the Nzoro 1 hydroelectricity station there has enabled around Any successful modern economy needs excellent 900 homes to gain access to electricity for lighting and our infrastructure.
Roads, bridges, power lines and mobile phone investment in the Doko-Aru road has boosted the enormous networks help traders to do business, children to go to school, growth of Kokiza market see Dubai in the DRC on the facing families to access healthcare and customers to shop.
infrastructure is also essential for the viability of our projects: however such basic infrastructure is rarely present when we We proactively seek to foster and grow this sense of an arrive in the remote parts of emerging Africa where our mines economic buzz.
The areas around most of our mines now are based.
have banks, petrol stations, motorbike dealerships, boarding houses and shops and we support this economic activity We therefore partner with governments to help build the through initiatives such as entrepreneur days, which encourage necessary infrastructure that makes our mines feasible national companies to invest around the mine area.
One of our and which catalyse regional development.
For example, commitments for 2014 will be to sponsor entrepreneur days in the area around the Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire.
as part of the construction of Kibali we have invested over 90 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources
