Corporate GOVERNANCE Key board responsibilities Governance statement The board is responsible for: The board is committed to ensuring that the Group is well managed and that rigorous and transparent procedures Group strategy, objectives and policies: allow this to happen.
general and long-term progress of the Group within the political, economic, environmental and social The principal governance rules applying to UK companies setting of the day: listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial financial performance, annual budgets and Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
This report business plans: also includes the information that is required by the major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and annual and half-year financial results and interim Transparency Rules DTR to be contained in the management statements: Companys annual report.
board committees and their terms of reference: Save in relation to Code provision A.
2.1 roles of internal controls and risk management: chairman and chief executive not to be exercised by responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: the same individual, the board confirms that it has sound governance, health and safety, and complied with the provisions of the Code throughout environmental policies: the year ended 30 June 2013.
Please see page 52 for an board and company secretary appointments: explanation as to why the board has not complied with senior management structure, remuneration and Code provision A.
2.1. succession: and This statement explains how we have applied the investor relations.
principles of the Code, our governance policies and Specific responsibilities are delegated to our four board practices and how we run the business for the benefit committees audit, remuneration, nominations and of shareholders.
They report to the board and operate within In this statement the following abbreviations are used: defined terms of reference, which can be obtained from our website at www.
jsp or by FCA Financial Conduct Authority writing to the company secretary.
Guoco Guoco Group Limited Board meetings Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion on strategy, trading, financial performance and risk Code main principles management.
leadership There were 10 scheduled meetings during the year and The role of the board a further nine meetings to discuss specific issues.
One Board composition meeting during the year was devoted entirely to strategy.
As at the date of this report, the board consists of: During the year, the boards committees also met regularly a senior independent director: to discharge their duties.
five further independent non-executive directors: and In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable two executive directors the executive chairman and to attend a meeting, their comments on briefing papers chief executive and the finance director.
are given in advance to the relevant chairman.
The names and biographies of all directors are published The directors attendance at board and committee on pages 48 and 49. meetings during the year is recorded in the table overleaf.
It shows the number of meetings attended by each director compared with the number of meetings that director was eligible to attend.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD Board meeting attendance Full Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance board committee committee committee committee Current directors Ian Burke 19 19 n a n a 2 2 9 9 Colin Child 17 19 3 3 n a n a 8 9 Clive Jennings 19 19 n a n a n a 9 9 Richard Kilmorey 15 19 n a n a n a n a Owen ODonnell 19 19 3 3 8 8 n a n a Tim Scoble 19 19 n a 8 8 2 2 9 9 John Warren 17 19 3 3 7 8 1 2 n a 1 Shaa Wasmund 10 13 n a n a n a n a Former directors 2 Richard Greenhalgh 19 19 n a 8 8 2 2 n a 3 Bill Shannon 8 8 1 3 2 2 1 2 n a Notes 1 Ms Wasmund was appointed to the board on 1 November 2012.
2 Mr Greenhalgh retired from the board with effect from 30 June 2013.
3 Mr Shannon retired from the board with effect from 31 December 2012.
Insurance and indemnity Given the Guoco holding, the board was of the view that it The Company has arranged insurance cover and was important for there to be a clear line of communication indemnifies directors in respect of legal action against between the Company and its majority shareholder and them to the extent permitted by law.
Neither applies that this would be for the benefit of all shareholders.
The in situations where a director has acted fraudulently board was of the view that this would be best achieved by or dishonestly.
combining the role of chairman and chief executive.
Conflicts of interest The board agreed that it would keep under regular review The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of the impact and wider implications of one individual interest.
In accordance with our articles of association, assuming the combined chair and chief executive role.
we have adopted a policy and procedure for managing Consequent upon Mr Burke continuing to assume the and, if appropriate, authorising actual or potential combined chair and chief executive role: conflicts of interest.
the finance committee which, amongst other things, Directors are required to disclose any other new sets, monitors and reports on operating plans, appointments before agreeing to take them on, so that comparison of our brands actual financial performance any conflicts of interest can be identified and addressed.
against budget and year-end forecasts continues to During the period under review, two non-executive comprise two non-executive directors in addition to directors took on positions with external organisations the chief executive and finance director: and no conflicts of interest in relation thereto have Mr Burke has stepped down from the nominations been identified.
committee: agendas for board meetings continue to be agreed with The board also assesses conflicts of interest before making the senior independent director: and any new appointments.
the senior independent director continues to take the Division of responsibilities lead role in terms of board and committee evaluations.
Since 15 July 2011 the Companys chief executive has also The finance committee s terms of reference are available from the assumed the role of executive chairman.
com downloads terms of reference tor finance committee.
pdf, or by writing to the company secretary.
Following the conclusion of Guocos general offer for Rank which resulted in it having a 74.5% interest in the Company, the Company retained its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 52 During summer 2012 the senior independent director effectiveness met a number of the Companys largest institutional The composition of the board shareholders to discuss executive remuneration.
At each Size and structure such meeting those shareholders were invited to express The nominations committee keeps the boards size and any concerns that they had with regard to Mr Burke structure under review.
The nominations committee assuming the combined role for the time being, and is of the view that the board is well balanced, providing no specific concerns were raised.
a collective competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and nonMr Burke has confirmed to the board that undertaking executive skill.
We believe that all our directors are suitably the combined role does not place an undue burden on qualified to help steer and challenge Group strategy.
The non-executive directors reviewed the combined position again in June 2013 including the impact of having More than half of our board is independent: a combined role on succession planning and remain Name Independent Appointed satisfied that despite the fact that Mr Burke undertakes the executive combined role of chairman and chief executive, he does Ian Burke March 2006 not enjoy unfettered powers of decision.
Clive Jennings July 2011 The Companys four largest institutional shareholders have non-executive all been offered meetings with the newly-appointed senior Colin Child January 2012 independent director.
Richard Kilmorey May 2012 The board continues to be of the view that Mr Burke is Owen ODonnell September 2008 successfully undertaking his primary duty as chairman Tim Scoble April 2010 in leading the board and ensuring its effectiveness in all John Warren January 2006 aspects of its role, and as chief executive in directing and promoting the profitable operation and development of Shaa Wasmund November 2012 the Group consistent with the primary objective of Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 Mar ch 2006. creating long-term shareholder value.
He resigned from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
The board will continue to keep the position under Colin Child assumed the role of the senior independent director on 1 July 2013. regular review.
Until 30 April 2012, T im Scoble was not independent he was an appointee of Guoco, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, which currently Non-executive directors owns 291,046,540 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 74.5% of The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures voting rights.
Tim Scoble has been independent since 30 April 2012 when he ceased to be an appointee of Guoco.
in place to ensure that: The principal terms and conditions of appointment for they are receiving accurate and clear information for each director are set out on pages 67 to 70 and their the proper execution of their duties: interests in Rank shares are detailed on page 73. the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent with enhancing shareholder value: Board diversity they are able to keep the Groups progress and During the period under review, the nominations development under review: committee has continued to consider the issue of diversity they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, in the context of the board and is mindful of the benefits and help develop, proposals on strategy: that diversity brings to the board.
The board is committed to further improving its gender diversity and to ensuring there are effective communications with all that all appointments are made regardless of gender.
shareholders: and the Groups governance is effective.
Committees The composition and chairmanship of our board Senior independent director committees are considered annually and have been As senior independent director since 1 July 2013, considered twice during the period under review.
Colin Child is available to talk with shareholders who have questions or concerns.
Led by the former senior independent director, the non-executive directors met and reviewed the chairman and chief executives performance without him being present.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 53 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD Appointments to the board sufficient time to allocate to the Company to discharge Nominations committee their responsibilities effectively.
The formal terms of reference of the nominations committee Executive directors are permitted to accept one external are available on our website at www.
com downloads appointment in a non-executive capacity and to retain terms of reference tor nominations committee.
pdf, or any fees received, provided there are no conflicts either by written request to the company secretary.
This is in recognition of the fact that The nominations committee is responsible for identifying such appointments can broaden the knowledge and relevant talent and nominating all board appointments.
experience of executive directors to the benefit of Rank.
During the period under review the committee met Neither Ian Burke nor Clive Jennings currently holds formally on two occasions.
The main issues which it any directorships outside the Rank Group.
Ian Burke discussed were: currently serves as a visiting professor at the Centre for Management Studies at Birmingham City University.
board composition: There is no set time commitment for this role, which board diversity: is unpaid.
succession planning: Development appointment of additional non-executive directors: and Induction chairmanship and membership of board committees.
During the period under review, one non-executive director was appointed to the board.
The non-executive Terms of appointment director was given a comprehensive induction programme, The agreed terms and conditions for non-executive which included briefings on the Groups trading directors comply with the Code and are available for environment, site visits and meetings with senior inspection at the Companys registered office.
management and the external auditor.
Appointment of additional non-executive director Skills and knowledge In anticipation of the retirement of Bill Shannon, the All directors are given quarterly written briefings committee initiated a search for a replacement independent with regard to matters affecting the Groups businesses, non-executive director.
The committee was particularly such as the gambling market, the competitive landscape, interested in identifying an individual with expertise in technological developments and the political and digital media.
One candidate with the requisite background, regulatory environment.
Additionally, at the boards Shaa Wasmund, was recommended to the chairman and request, the Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of he, another committee member and another board member key impact items such as political and regulatory initiatives interviewed Ms. Wasmund, following which she was with regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, recommended for appointment to the board and duly going concern and the role of the audit committee.
appointed with effect from 1 November 2012.
Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary Re-appointment of non-executive directors or human resources director any desired skills and On 22 April 2013 Tim Scoble had served three years knowledge enhancements that they require so that on the board, initially as a representative of Guoco.
appropriate training can be arranged.
With effect from 30 April 2012, Mr Scoble ceased to be a representative of Guoco.
Mr Scoble and the board consider Additionally, once a year, the directors have an Mr Scoble to be independent with effect from that date.
opportunity to review and agree their respective training Given that Mr Scobles experience as a leisure operator, and development needs during their one-on-one meetings with particular expertise in developing consumer brands with the executive chairman.
and service delivery, continued to be beneficial for Rank, the board has agreed that Mr Scoble should remain as Information and support a director for at least one year following his re-election Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman and chief at the 2013 annual general meeting.
executive is responsible for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely information on all relevant matters.
Commitment The terms of appointment of non-executive directors The directors receive a monthly report of current and are outlined on page 67 of the directors remuneration forecast trading results and treasury positions, as well report.
All non-executive directors are required to disclose as updates on shareholder views.
their other significant commitments both before A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board appointment and following subsequent changes so that discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to the board can satisfy itself that each of the directors has cover topical issues and developments.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 54 Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda On the recommendation of the nominations committee, items are circulated at least five working days before at a meeting of the board held in December 2011, it meetings where possible.
These contain detailed background was agreed that the Company would comply with the information, thus freeing time for informed debate.
Codes requirement for annual re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the management team.
Members of the management Therefore all other directors will also submit themselves team also make regular board presentations to ensure for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting a flow of operational information reaches the directors with the exception of John Warren.
Mr Warren will be in a timely way.
retiring from the board with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, may take accountability independent advice and or professional development Risk management and internal control at the Companys expense.
Risk management As part of its risk oversight role, the board satisfies itself Evaluation that the necessary steps are taken to foster a culture of To monitor overall board performance, we use off-therisk-adjusted decision-making throughout the Group.
record questionnaires between the chairman and each The board strives to ensure that risk management is an director to evaluate individuals, the committees and integral component of the Groups corporate strategy, the board as a whole.
culture and value generation process.
The boards view The chairman conducted individual interviews with is that risk management should be neither an impediment each board member to discuss their contributions during to the conduct of business nor a mere supplement to the the year.
The then senior independent director conducted Groups overall compliance programme.
an individual interview with the chairman and finance The risk management process is reviewed by the director to review their individual performances in the audit committee on behalf of the board and monitored period under review.
regularly by the chief executive, supported by the The non-executive directors, led by the then senior company secretary.
independent director, held their meeting to appraise The Companys risk management reporting provides the chairman and chief executives performance and knowledge of current and emerging risks, trends and effectiveness in June 2013. opportunities that may colour strategic decisions.
Rank The board reviewed and discussed anonymised responses communicates with regulators, Government, nonto the board and committee evaluation questionnaires.
governmental organisations and other bodies that have The board agreed that, overall, the board functioned opinions about Ranks business, its future and effects.
effectively during the period under review and that its Compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 and HM Treasury committees continued to discharge their duties in line Financial Sanctions forms part of the general risks and with their respective terms of reference.
internal controls reported to the board.
Our audit Re-election committee also reviews managements bi-annual reports All new directors must stand for election at the first annual on anti money laundering, internal and external fraud, general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, whistleblowing, code of conduct and inadvertent breaches at intervals of no more than three years.
directors are engaged for an initial period of three years An external risk management review of the Groups digital and must stand for election and re-appointment in the businesses is being undertaken with particular focus on same way.
Ranks articles of association require one third IT security, fraud and payments, customer management of serving directors to retire annually.
and affiliates: and the board will consider the conclusions Shaa Wasmund was appointed to the board since the last and any recommendations of that review later this annual general meeting and is therefore required to submit calendar year.
herself for election at the forthcoming annual general At its meeting in May 2013, the board considered and meeting on 17 October 2013. discussed its appetite for risk.
Given that Rank operates in an industry which is subject to government intervention, there would be a tendency towards a lower risk appetite than in some other businesses.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD Principal risks and uncertainties If Rank fails to integrate the Gala and Grosvenor casino We outline below, not listed in any order of materiality, businesses successfully, this may require more time and what we are doing to address our principal risks.
additional resources than originally anticipated or divert management attention which could have a negative Level of Rank shares in public hands impact on the results of the Groups operations.
19R, shares held by persons who have an interest in 5% or more of a listed companys Ranks project integration team continues to work share capital are not regarded as being held in public so as to minimise the integration risks.
Under this rule, the shares Online gaming platform held by Hong Leong and Prudential plc and subsidiary The Group is in the course of planning to replace its companies Prudential may not be regarded as being online gaming platform, which is of significant strategic in public hands, with the result that the number of importance to the Group.
This will be the single largest Ranks shares distributed to the public is below the 25% IT project that it has undertaken in recent years.
The key threshold set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under Listing risks for this project include failure to select the optimum Rule 6.1.
20R, the FCA may modify Listing Rule 6.1.
19R supplier, failure to specify correctly the Groups requirements to accept a percentage below 25% if it considers that with the result that the platform is not fit for purpose: the market will operate properly with a lower percentage.
failure to define clearly the governance structure for the Under Listing Rule 5.2.
1R, the FCA has the power to cancel project: failure to deliver the project on time and on the listing of securities if it is satisfied that there are special budget: failure to manage adequately the transition circumstances that preclude normal regular dealings in from the existing platform: and failure to provide for them.
Additionally two of the Groups credit facility an appropriate exit strategy.
agreements are currently dependent on the Company remaining listed on a European stock exchange.
To address The project is still in the planning process, with the the free float issue, on 3 July 2013 Guoco announced that governance structure in the course of being agreed and it had declared a special interim dividend in specie of roles and responsibilities allocated.
The Group will engage approximately 88.84 million Rank shares representing external specialist advice and assistance where required in 22.74% of Rank the Distribution.
Rank understands order to ensure that the project is successful.
that the Distribution is expected to reduce the overall IT security interest of Hong Leong from 74.5% to 68.6%.
However, The Group is highly dependent on technology and due to the fact that Prudentials shares are not regarded advanced information systems and these systems may fail as being in public hands, the free float remains below the or be vulnerable to hacker intrusion, malicious viruses and 25% threshold.
The Company remains in discussions with other cyber crime attacks which may cause systems failure the UKLA and Prudential regarding this.
Whilst we employ prevention Integration of Grosvenor and Gala casinos measures, such attacks are by their nature technologically As reported on page 40, Rank completed its acquisition of sophisticated and may be difficult or impossible to detect 19 Gala casinos on 12 May 2013.
Although the integration and defend.
If our prevention measures should fail or be of Grosvenor and Gala casinos was carefully planned over circumvented, our reputation may be harmed and current many months prior to completion and three months have or potential customers may be deterred from using our elapsed since completion, Rank may still face unforeseen services, which in turn could have a material adverse difficulties with the integration of the operations and effect on our financial performance.
personnel of Gala Casinos into that of Grosvenors existing We have policies and procedures in place to safeguard businesses including: our customer data and to respond swiftly to breaches difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and attempted breaches of the Groups IT systems.
and management standards, processes, procedures and Systems penetration testing is carried out regularly and controls of the two businesses: our IT policies and procedures are regularly reviewed in difficulties in managing the increased scope, the light of developments.
We continue to increase our geographic diversity and complexity of an enlarged IT security resource as our brands grow online and as we group of casinos: deploy more technology into our clubs.
During the year we have recruited a head of information security who is unforeseen additional capital expenditure requirements: in the process of building an enhanced team.
We have also failure to mitigate contingent and or assumed appointed a chief information officer who will be starting liabilities: and the unexpected loss of key personnel and customers.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 56 with the Group in September 2013.
We have also bolstered Loss of licences our technological capability during the year with the Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its operation appointment of a director of technical operations and and therefore the loss of them would be catastrophic for our internal audit capabilities by the appointment of Rank.
This fact has fostered a heavily compliant culture a head of corporate and systems audit.
Rank has a dedicated compliance function that is independent of operations and a separate internal Taxation and regulation audit function that is independent of both operations Adverse change fiscal and regulatory in legislation and the compliance function.
Rank maintains a strong continues to be one of our biggest risks.
and open relationship with the Gambling Commission, the body responsible for regulating commercial gambling Changes in political and social attitudes to gambling in in the United Kingdom.
Since entering the online gaming our key markets and negative publicity surrounding the market, Rank has worked hard to build a similarly strong gambling industry could influence regulators perception and open relationship with the Alderney Gambling of gambling and could lead to increased gambling Control Commission, which is responsible for the regulation.
This could have an adverse effect on our regulation of eGambling in the States of Alderney business and profitability and prevent us from providing where our remote gambling operations are licensed.
responsible gambling and anti money laundering review We are subject to gambling taxation and levies in Great committees meet quarterly to review topical issues, trends Britain and the other countries in which we operate.
Any and statistics and their findings are reported to our audit increases in the levels of taxation or levies to which we are committee.
We also have a director of security who is subject, or the implementation of any new taxes or levies supported by an experienced security team who have built to which we will be subject, could have a material adverse informal relationships with police forces in the areas in effect on our business, financial condition and results of which we operate so that if problems arise there are open operations.
For further information please see our tax fact channels of communication.
Economic environment We participate actively in trade bodies presentations to The uncertain economic environment, higher indirect Government and opposition parties.
As we have done in taxation and unemployment could adversely affect our previous years, during the period under review, we have customers expenditure on leisure activities and we arranged key stakeholder familiarisation visits to some therefore monitor customer spending closely.
We are of our sites in order that stakeholders can have an constantly looking to identify ways to improve our offer opportunity to see our businesses in operation.
This so that we become our customers leisure destination of enables stakeholders to gain a better understanding of choice.
We maintain a programme of active engagement the positive effect of our business activities, including the with members of our banking panel.
provision of a safe environment within which adults can Liquidity risk enjoy gambling, the creation of employment and the Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have generation of revenues for the Exchequer.
sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts An explanation of Ranks approach to regulatory and identifying liquidity requirements are produced monthly fiscal reform can be found at www.
com downloads and sensitivity tested.
A three-year forecast is produced gameplan vol1 april 2013. pdf or by written request to annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The External events Group also has unutilised revolving credit facilities that Customers may be prevented or deterred from accessing help to mitigate liquidity risk.
our clubs due to factors such as extreme weather, illness or disease epidemics, terrorist threats, strikes and public Further details of the financial risks that the Group faces transport system failures.
Whilst these matters are outside can be found in note 20 to the financial statements.
our direct sphere of influence, we continue to work hard to better prepare ourselves for such eventualities, particularly in terms of co-ordinating with our interactive businesses and making sure that employees can get to work.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD Internal control framework Internal audit To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, Our internal audit team provides an objective and operational and compliance issues, the board has put in continuous stream of data and opinion on risk place formally defined lines of responsibility and management and control.
To avoid bias, it is entirely delegation of authority.
independent of the business operations under audit and line management is to the Groups finance director.
The Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate audit committee agrees the annual audit plan and reviews and manage significant risks and to monitor the Groups audit reports produced by the internal audit team.
The scope of the audit coverage is defined by the audit This framework is reviewed annually and is designed committee and covers all systems, procedures and activities to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups of all departments and functions in any and all businesses assets, while ensuring that proper accounting records are and operations within the Rank Group, including projects, maintained.
Senior management is responsible for making policy developments, financial and non-financial processes.
sure that controls and procedures are enforced and that the board is informed of any risks and control issues The internal audit teams seek to determine whether that arise.
the system of risk management, control and governance processes, as designed and operated by management, Financial control: there is a comprehensive system is adequate and functioning in such a manner as to for reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting ensure that: process incorporating an approved budget and bi-annual re-forecasts.
The chief executive and finance director hold risks are appropriately identified and managed in line monthly review meetings with brand managing directors with the Companys risk appetite: and their respective directors of finance.
operations are run with sufficient and adequate controls and in an efficient and effective manner: Financial reporting control: detailed policies significant financial, managerial and operating and procedures are in place to ensure the accuracy information is accurate, reliable and timely: and reliability of financial reporting.
A new financial employee actions are in compliance with policies, reporting system was installed for the digital channels standards, procedures, and applicable laws and of our businesses during 2013 which has enhanced our regulations: and reporting capability.
relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic in the operation of the business.
plans annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit Operational control: our procedures are laid down to monitor each business units reporting performance also in detailed manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and report weaknesses to operational The head of operational internal audit makes regular management.
presentations to the audit committee and reporting includes comparative and trend analysis.
During the Communication control: the executive directors and period under review the audit committee had three senior management meet regularly with representatives closed sessions with the head of operational internal from the businesses to address financial, human resource, audit without executive management being present.
risk management and other control issues.
During the year we recruited a head of corporate and Our system of internal control is designed to manage systems audit and she has undertaken a detailed review of rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups risk processes and the role of the internal audit business objectives, and provides reasonable, not absolute, function and presented her findings and recommendations assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It controls, to the audit committee in June.
She has also attended a rather than eliminates, any human error, deliberate closed session with the audit committee without executive misconduct or unforeseen events.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 58 Compliance The internal and external auditors meet the committee Compliance affects our reputation, legal position and without executive directors and other employees financial sustainability.
The board is responsible for being present.
compliance across the Group and for ensuring that The committee met formally three times in the period all Rank businesses meet local legal and regulatory under review.
Its terms of reference are available from the requirements.
com downloads terms Compliance with the Gambling Act 2005 is fundamental of reference tor audit committee.
pdf, or by writing to the to the survival of Ranks businesses, creating a heavily company secretary.
compliant culture within the Company.
Role of the audit committee A dedicated compliance and security team of 14 employees The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and monitors day-to-day adherence to the provisions of the maintaining internal controls, the management of risk Gambling Act 2005 and other regulatory obligations.
and our compliance with the law and regulation.
Senior executives and the internal audit team are It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups responsible for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the audit committee and the board.
It also assesses the integrity of all public financial Control culture statements before their submission to the board, ensuring The board oversees a culture of strong control and risk we present a fair assessment of the Groups ongoing management.
This is reflected in: position and prospects.
directors methods of enforcing control, some of which Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by were established through Ranks historical activities in the committee, which also reviews the objectivity and the USA and the requirement to comply with the effectiveness of our external auditors every year.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: The committee oversees the Companys internal code management style and philosophy: of conduct and monitors our whistleblowing procedures dedicated teams for compliance and internal audit: and through which employees may, in confidence, raise Ranks organisational structure and clear lines of concerns about possible improprieties in areas of financial accountability, authority and responsibility.
reporting, financial control and other ethical matters.
Code of conduct The committee is regularly updated on accounting and Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our legislative changes through briefing papers from the values and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
auditors, finance director and others.
Adherence to the code is important.
It upholds our Audit committee activity in 2012 13 reputation and relationships, inside and outside At its meetings in the year to 30 June 2013 the committee the Company.
examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach to: The audit committee is responsible for monitoring internal control by approving a new internal audit management reports on employee conduct, including charter, by reviewing and approving an audit universe: our whistleblowing procedures.
by approving the 2013 14 internal operational audit Audit committee and auditors plan and a recommended plan and approach for a Audit committee membership and meetings corporate and systems audit cycle: reviewing internal The board has established an audit committee of three audits findings, reviewing the annual and interim independent non-executive directors.
A rolling agenda financial statements, reviewing the reports of the and topical items determine the committees discussions.
external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Members of the audit committee are listed on page 50. assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of The board is satisfied that the committee has recent and current and emerging risk and the Groups risk relevant financial experience.
management processes: At the invitation of the audit committee chairman, the action plans to address any failings or weaknesses chief executive, finance director, company secretary and of internal control: and director of group financial control normally attend action plans to manage significant risks.
committee meetings, as do the external auditors.
Other directors are encouraged to attend at least one committee meeting a year at which the auditors are present.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD This process has been in place during the period and up Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout to the date of approval of this annual report and financial the period under review can be found on page 94. statements.
It has been reviewed by the board and meets Rank has used the services of other accounting firms for the Financial Reporting Councils internal control non-audit work during the period under review.
Rank is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of The committee and the board also reviewed the recently the audit partner and the audit engagement team have not published formal guidance to boards with regard to cyber been compromised by the fees paid for the non-audit work risk that had been prepared by ICSA with the assistance undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP.
of industry experts from the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and other industry experts Auditor assessment on cyber risk.
In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee chair and the external audit partner, the Audit committee evaluation committee meets with the auditors following each audit The audit committees performance was assessed by committee meeting in a closed session without executive questionnaire to members and other executives who have directors to assess the objectivity and accuracy of financial dealings with the committee in August 2013.
The board reporting and to hear any other observations that the concluded that the committee continues to function auditors may have to make.
The committee reviews the external audit process and the Auditors auditors performance at least annually, providing feedback The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are willing to continue to the auditors from management assessments.
in office and a resolution that they be re-appointed at a remuneration to be agreed by the audit committee will Having reviewed their performance throughout the period, be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
our conclusion that their effectiveness is satisfactory enables us to recommend their reappointment for 2013 14.
Relations with external auditors Our auditors are employed to express an opinion on the Assurance financial statements.
They review the systems of internal The internal audit function and the external auditors financial control and the data contained in the financial presented their findings to the committee in August 2012 statements to the extent necessary to express their opinion.
We confirm that action plans to remedy identified weaknesses in internal control They discuss with management the reporting of have been in place throughout the period.
operational results and the financial position of the Group, and present findings to the audit committee.
Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 76.
Information Relations with shareholders The directors in office at the date of this report are not Dialogue with shareholders aware of any relevant information that has not been made The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that available to the auditors and each director has taken steps satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
to be aware of all such information and to ensure it is We speak with institutional shareholders and city analysts available to the Companys auditors.
through a programme of investor relations and regular Non-audit work meetings with principal shareholders.
The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with any non-audit work undertaken by the auditors to ensure shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a they remain independent.
Consequently, the committee total of 16 meetings with nine shareholders were attended is required to approve in advance all non-audit services by one or more of the senior independent director, chief above a specified value.
When seeking external accountancy advice in relation Formal briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated to to non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite the board after presentation of the Companys interim and competitive tenders where appropriate.
It is also the annual results.
Groups policy to balance the need to maintain audit independence with the desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in the area of advice being sought and the desirability of being efficient.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 60 The principal method of communicating with all our For ease of reference we have provided below details of the shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
pages within this annual report and financial statements Information can be provided in paper format but only where you will find many of the mandatory disclosures, when shareholders specifically request this.
all of which are incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of our directors report: Constructive use of the annual general meeting All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general accounting policies adopted 82 meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask annual general meeting 61 questions following a summary business presentation of auditors disclosure of information to 60 the Groups results and development plans.
auditors reappointment 60 The chairman and chief executive and chairmen of the Board of directors 48 audit, remuneration and nominations committees are Business description 4 all present.
Business objectives, strategies Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions and likely future developments 13 contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at Business overseas locations 6 least 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, Change of control significant agreements 64 voting results and a summary of the questions and answers Charitable donations 64 are made available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
Corporate responsibility: employees and community 33 Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or Critical contractual and other arrangements 64 appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual Directors appointment and retirement 54 and 55 and other general meetings of the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest 52 Next AGM Directors insurance and indemnity 52 The 2013 AGM will be held on 17 October 2013 and the full text of the notice of meeting, together with Directors interests in shares and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: share incentive plans 73 and 75 http: www.
com downloads agm nom 2013. pdf.
Directors responsibility statements 65 Dividends 11 If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed with your hard copy of this annual report.
DTR responsibility statement 65 Shareholders wishing to change that election may do employee numbers 127 so at any time by contacting the Companys registrar Financial instruments risk management 116 contact details are on page 143 and on our website Financial performance and position 40 at www.
Going concern 42 Other disclosures Key performance indicators 17 The Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized Political donations 64 Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Principal risks and uncertainties 56 Regulations 2008, the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Profits 40 Regulations 2008, the Financial Reporting Councils UK share capital 62 Corporate Governance Code June 2010 the Code, shares company own share purchases 64 the Financial Conduct Authoritys the FCA Listing shares rights, restrictions, obligations Rules and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and variations 63 Rules and Transparency Rules DTR contain mandatory significant shareholders 63 disclosure requirements in relation to this annual report in respect of the year ended 30 June 2013. suppliers payment policy and practice 64 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD Directors The directors who served during the period under review are: Name Position Effective date of change Ian Burke Chairman & chief executive Colin Child Non-executive director Richard Greenhalgh Senior independent director Resigned 30 Jun 2013 Clive Jennings Finance director Richard Kilmorey Non-executive director Owen ODonnell Non-executive director Tim Scoble Non-executive director Bill Shannon Non-executive director Resigned 31 Dec 2012 John Warren Non-executive director Shaa Wasmund Non-executive director Appointed 01 Nov 2012 Mr Child was appointed senior independent director with effect from 1 July 2013.
Share capital 8 The Companys authorised share capital as at 30 June 2013 was 180m, divided into 1,296,000,000 ordinary shares of 13 p 9 each.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
There were 390,683,521 shares in issue at the period-end 390,613,426 as at 30 June 2012, which were held by 11,552 registered shareholders 12,007 as at 30 June 2012.
During the period under review a total of 70,095 shares were issued to participants in The Rank Group 2005 Share Savings Scheme pursuant to the exercise of options under the five-year issue made in 2007 at an exercise price of 139.00p per share.
Distribution of registered shareholders as at 30 June 2013 Total number of registered Total number % of issued Range shareholders % of holders of shares share capital 1 1,000 9,642 83.47% 1,959,407 0.50% 1,001 5,000 1,489 12.89% 3,086,203 0.79% 5,001 10,000 165 1.43% 1,181,413 0.30% 10,001 100,000 200 1.73% 5,886,889 1.51% 100,001 1,000,000 44 0.38% 14,230,691 3.64% 1,000,001 and above 12 0.10% 364,338,918 93.26% Totals 11,552 100.00% 390,683,521 100.00% Majority shareholder Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad Hong Leong, the ultimate parent company of Guoco Group Limited Guoco, has a controlling interest in Rank consequent upon the general offer made by its Hong Kong listed subsidiary company, Guoco, via its wholly-owned subsidiary, Rank Assets Limited then known as All Global Investments Limited.
Hong Leong Group is a leading conglomerate based in Malaysia with diversified businesses in banking and financial services, manufacturing and distribution, property development and investments and hospitality and leisure.
Further information on the Hong Leong group of companies can be found at www.
Guoco is an investment holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiaries and associated companies include investment, property development, financial services and hospitality and leisure.
Further information on the Guoco group of companies can be found at www.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 62 Significant shareholders As per s. 793 CA 2006 enquiry As per s. 793 CA 2006 enquiry As per FCA DTRs disclosures responses as at 30 June 2013 responses as at 31 July 2013 Date last notified under DTR Shareholder % held Voting rights % held Voting rights % held Voting rights 08 Jan 2012 Hong Leong Co. Malaysia Berhad 74.50% 291,046,540 74.50% 291,046,540 74.50% 291,046,540 09 Mar 2012 Prudential plc and subsidiary 5.85% 22,878,293 6.80% 26,572,853 6.79% 26,508,509 companies 28 Mar 2012 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its 5.03% 19,640,833 3.80% 14,854,971 3.79% 14,807,211 group companies Threadneedle Retail Funds Linked Strategies 23 Oct 2009 Aviva plc and subsidiary companies 3.02% 11,805,912 3.53% 13,803,211 3.52% 13,763,383 Interests of 3% or more as being in public hands, the free float remains below the The interests shown in the table above, of 3% or more 25% threshold.
The Company remains in discussions with of the total voting rights attached to ordinary shares have the UKLA and Prudential regarding this.
been notified to the Company in accordance with the Directors interests in shares FCAs DTRs.
Due to the fact that the DTRs only require Please see page 73 of the directors remuneration report for notification where the percentage voting rights reach, details of the directors interests in shares.
exceed or fall below 3% and each 1% threshold above 3%, there is a difference between disclosures made pursuant to Rights and restrictions attaching to shares the DTRs and those disclosed on our website at www.
Voting rights com investors major shareholders.
jsp which are based Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general on responses to s. 793 Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 meetings of the Company.
notices issued by the Company.
For ease of reference, we Meeting rights have included in the table above voting rights in respect Registered holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend of both DTRs disclosures and s. 793 CA 2006 responses and speak at general meetings and to appoint proxies.
up to and including the date of this report.
Information rights Under Listing Rule 6.1.
19R, shares held by persons who Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the have an interest in 5% or more of a listed companys share Companys annual report and financial statements.
capital are not regarded as being held in public hands the free float.
Under this rule, the shares held by Share transfer restrictions Hong Leong and Prudential plc and subsidiary companies There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares Prudential may not be regarded as being in public contained in the Companys articles of association.
hands, with the result that the number of Ranks shares The Company is not aware of any agreements between distributed to the public is below the 25% threshold set the holders of Rank shares that may result in restrictions out in Listing Rule 6.1.
20R, on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions the FCA may modify Listing Rule 6.1.
19R to accept a on voting rights.
percentage below 25% if it considers that the market will operate properly with a lower percentage.
Under Variation of rights Listing Rule 5.2.
1R, the FCA has the power to cancel the Subject to applicable legislation, the rights attached to listing of securities if it is satisfied that there are special Ranks ordinary shares may be varied with the written circumstances that preclude normal regular dealings in consent of the holders of at least three quarters in them.
On 3 July 2013 Guoco announced that it had nominal value of those shares, or by a special resolution declared a special interim dividend in specie of passed at a general meeting of the ordinary shareholders.
approximately 88.84 million Rank shares representing 22.74% of Rank the Distribution.
Rank understands Directors powers in relation to shares that the Distribution is expected to reduce the overall Allotment and issue of shares interest of Hong Leong from 74.5% to 68.6%.
However, Subject to the provisions of the CA 2006, and subject to due to the fact that Prudentials shares are not regarded any resolution passed by the Company pursuant to the CA 2006 and other shareholder rights, shares in Rank may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 DiReCTORs RePORT CORPORaTe GOveRnanCe COnTinUeD may by ordinary resolution decide.
If there is no such A change of control may also affect licences to operate, as resolution or so far as the Company does not make specific specified in the provisions of the Gambling Act 2005 and provision, they may be issued as Ranks board of directors the Alderney eGambling Regulations 2009 as amended may decide.
Subject to the Companys articles of association, and the Belgian Games of Chance Act 1999 as amended.
the CA 2006 and other shareholder rights, unissued shares Critical contractual and other arrangements are at the disposal of the board.
We assess and record any risks in our dealings with major The Company currently has no shareholder authority to suppliers as part of the Groups overall risk management allot and grant rights over any proportion of the Companys process.
Contingency plans are in place to deal with events unissued share capital, nor does it have shareholders should key supply arrangements be terminated without authority to allot and grant rights over ordinary shares due warning.
without first making a pro rata offer to all existing ordinary Our procurement team also reviews the financial health shareholders.
Neither of these authorities is required for of our main suppliers.
We have concluded that, while the purpose of allotting shares pursuant to employee share unexpected termination of any of the Groups major schemes.
Since the board has no present intention of contractors would be disruptive, it would not have a allotting shares for any other reason, these shareholder severe adverse effect.
authorities will not be sought at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Suppliers payment policy and practice Ranks individual businesses and intermediate holding Market purchases of own shares companies agree terms and conditions for business The Company currently has no shareholder authority transactions with their respective suppliers.
Payments to make market purchases of its own shares.
Shareholder are made to suppliers once they have met these terms approval will be sought at the 2013 annual general and conditions.
meeting to obtain the standard authority for one year.
At 30 June 2013 the Group had an average of 32 days Directors other powers purchases owed to trade creditors 30 June 2012: 28.
Subject to legislation, the directors may exercise all the powers permitted by the Companys memorandum and The Company is the holding company of the Rank group articles of association.
A copy of these can be obtained of companies and as such has no trade creditors.
by writing to the company secretary, or from Charitable donations Companies House.
In the year under review we made, or committed, The articles contain provisions to empower the directors charitable donations in the UK of 375,000 2011 12 on certain specific matters, including: 18 months: 507,000, of which the largest was 309,000 2011 12 18 months: 423,000 to Responsible Gambling appointment of directors, subject to subsequent Trust the charitable organisation formed following the shareholder approval: merger of The GREaT Foundation and the Responsible delegation of powers to a director, secretary or Gambling Fund.
committee of one or more persons: Further information can be found in the Operating the Companys powers to borrow money: and Responsibly section of this report, pages 33 to 39. the ability of a director to vote on matters in which he has an interest.
Political donations We made no political donations during the period Changes to the Companys articles of association can only under review.
be made by a resolution passed by a majority of no less than 75% of shareholders.
It has been Ranks long-standing practice not to make cash payments to political parties and the board intends Change of control that this will remain the case.
However, the CA 2006 is Our principal loan term and credit facility agreements very broadly drafted and could catch activities such as and the facilities agreements for the acquisition of 19 Gala funding seminars and other functions to which politicians casinos contain provisions that, on a change of control are invited, supporting certain bodies involved in policy of Rank, immediate repayment can be demanded of all review and law reform and matching employees advances and any accrued interest.
Accordingly, as in previous The provisions of the Companys share schemes and years, the directors will be seeking shareholders authority incentive plans may cause options and awards granted for political donations and political expenditure at the to employees to vest in the event of a takeover.
forthcoming annual general meeting in case any of Ranks activities are inadvertently caught by the legislation.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 64 Responsibility statements under the DTR state whether the financial statements have been Each of the directors named on pages 48 and 49 confirms prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the that to the best of their knowledge: European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with financial statements under International Financial prepare the financial statements for both the Company Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and the Group on the going concern basis, unless it is Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, appropriate to assume that the Group will not continue financial position and profit of the Company and the in business, in which case there should be supporting undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a assumptions or qualifications.
whole: and The directors confirm that they have complied with all the directors report which incorporates the Group of the above.
operating and financial review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business Accounting records and the position of the Company and the undertakings The directors must keep proper accounting records included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together that disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the with a description of the risks and uncertainties that financial position of the Company and the Group and they face.
ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 Directors responsibility statements and, for the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Annual report and financial statements International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report including the directors report, the directors remuneration Safeguarding assets report and the corporate governance statement and the The directors are also accountable for safeguarding the financial statements of the Group and the Company, in assets of the Company and the Group and, therefore, for accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to other irregularities.
prepare Group and Company financial statements for each Corporate website financial year.
Under that law, the directors are required to The maintenance and integrity of Ranks corporate prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted website, on which this annual report and financial by the European Union.
As permitted by the Companies statements are published, is the boards responsibility.
Act 2006, the directors have elected to prepare the We would draw attention to the fact that legislation in Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the UK on the preparation and publication of financial the European Union.
Under company law the directors statements may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
must not approve the Group and Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true By order of the board and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements, the directors are required to: present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and Company: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with Frances Bingham IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Company secretary Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: 14 August 2013 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements that are reasonable: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group and Companys financial position and final performance: The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65
