Our Relationships and Principal Risks Our Relationships and Principal Risks Relationships 60 operating companies in nearly 200 develop, could have a material adverse effect The Groups key external relationships are countries.
Consequently, our business and on our business.
With our customers retailers no results of operations are affected by changes Our results of operations depend to a single one accounts for more than 10% of net in both global economic conditions and the significant extent on our ability to launch revenue and our top ten customers account for individual markets in which we operate.
and sell products that appeal to, and are less than one quarter of net revenue.
Although Global economic trends continue to pose accepted by consumers and, in particular, our these customers continue to become more challenges, and in many of our markets, Powerbrands.
Consumer preferences, tastes concentrated in their chosen markets, the austerity measures, constraints on consumer and habits are constantly evolving.
Various Groups wide geographical spread and diversity lending and slow or no economic growth factors, some of which are beyond our control, of product lines provides a natural balance.
continue to impede consumer purchasing may have an adverse impact on demand for power and adversely impact consumer Equally, the Group sources its raw and our Powerbrands.
In addition, terrorist acts, civil packaging materials and finished goods from products within our health and hygiene unrest and other similar disturbances, as well a wide variety of predominantly international categories have in the past exhibited, and may as natural catastrophes, can impact economic companies and co-packers.
No single supplier in the future exhibit, seasonal fluctuations.
conditions and consumer confidence, degrade accounts for more than 5% of cost of sales Launch of new products or variants of our infrastructure, disrupt supply chains and and the Groups global purchasing function existing Powerbrands may not neutralise the otherwise result in business interruption.
balances the need for competitive pricing with impact of weak performance of one of continuity of supply.
A variety of factors may adversely affect our our Powerbrands.
Similarly, our failure to results of operations and financial condition differentiate our existing Powerbrands or future The Groups brand portfolio is also broadly during periods of economic uncertainty or products from competitors, whether through based with the most significant Powerbrand instability, social or labour unrest or political quality, innovation, marketing or otherwise, accounting for approximately 9% of net upheaval in the markets in which we operate.
may adversely impact consumer demand for revenue.
Each brand in turn is founded on a For example, our operations and supply chains our products.
Certain markets, including a variety of appropriate technology platforms may be disrupted.
Consumers may purchase number of emerging markets in which we plan which drive a steady stream of product less or switch to purchasing generic products, to focus our investment and growth efforts, development.
The individual brands are private label products and economy brands, exhibit more volatile demand in reaction to self-supporting and independent of the RB as opposed to branded products, which could macro-economic factors than other markets.
corporate brand, and each other.
This reduces impact our sales, or result in a shift in our Similarly, if consumer patterns change within the potential for any brand reputation damage product mix from higher margin to lower the major consumer clusters that we have to impact across a broader front.
In addition, we may identified, or fail to react as anticipated, we The financial stability of the Group is face increased pricing pressure or competing may have to reassess our growth plans, and supported by a low level of leverage, as promotional activity for lower-priced products alter our sales strategy.
borrowings to finance acquisitions are paid as competitors seek to maintain sales volumes.
If we are unable to respond to changes in down through strong cash flows, and a stable Periods of economic upheaval may also expose consumer demand in a timely or adequate Shareholder base.
us to greater counterparty risks, including with manner, or at all, and or accurately predict or customers, suppliers and financial institutions, Given the combination of the financial anticipate factors that may impact demand, who may become insolvent or otherwise strength and geographic spread of the Group, and if we are unable to differentiate our brands unable to perform their obligations.
We may its range of brands and products, and its low from competitors, our business, financial also experience greater fluctuations in foreign level of reliance on individual key customers condition and results of operations may be currency movements, increased commodity and suppliers, the Directors consider that its materially and adversely affected.
prices and increased transportation and exposure to specific events which would energy costs.
Periods of economic and Our business, financial condition, and results materially adversely affect the Groups ability political upheaval may also lead to government of operations substantially depend on our to deliver its strategic objectives is low.
actions, such as imposition of martial law, ability to improve our existing products, and Principal Risks trade restrictions, foreign ownership successfully develop and launch new products The principal and specific risks that, in the restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, and technologies.
opinion of the Directors, pose the most nationalisation or expropriation of property Our ability to maintain and grow our market significant threat to the delivery of the Groups or other resources, or changes in legal and share depends to a large extent on our ability listed strategic objectives are as listed: regulatory requirements, including those to successfully and cost-effectively introduce resulting in potentially adverse tax Any of the following, or a combination of such and market new products whether variants consequences.
We may also be unable to factors, could have a material adverse effect on of existing, or newly developed, products, access credit markets, including the commercial our business, prospects, results of operations or and to develop equipment, technology and paper market, on favourable terms, or at all, financial condition.
manufacturing processes for our products.
which could materially adversely affect our If we are unable to successfully develop, launch We could be adversely affected by economic liquidity and capital resources or significantly and market new products that obtain consumer conditions in, and political developments increase our cost of capital.
acceptance, in a timely manner, or at all, we affecting, the markets in which we operate.
Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a may be unable to compete and maintain or We are one of the worlds leading significant portion of our revenue, and any grow our market share.
Any new product or manufacturers and marketers of branded material adverse change to demand for existing line extension may not generate sufficient health, hygiene and home products, selling a Powerbrands or any future products we may consumer interest and sales levels to become a comprehensive range of products through over profitable product or to cover the costs of its RB Annual Report 2013 93 Our Relationships and Principal Risks development or promotion.
In addition, if we Similarly, any litigation that we face may subject In addition, our patents relating to the decide to pursue growth opportunities in new us to increasing negative attention in the press.
Suboxone sublingual Film expire on various categories and new category segments or in In addition, companies with global operations dates through 2030.
We have recently been regions in which we have no prior experience recently have come under criticism for informed of the filing of abbreviated new drug or limited experience, we may become corporate tax planning, and criticism of our applications ANDA by Par Pharmaceutical exposed to unexpected or greater risks and structures or those of our peers could also Companies, Inc.
Par Pharmaceutical, Watson potential losses.
Any negative Laboratories, Inc. Watson Laboratories and publicity could significantly undermine our Alvogen Pine Brook, Inc. Alvogen for generic Product innovation and development generally reputation, and current methods of Suboxone sublingual Films in the United States.
involve considerable costs, and may involve a dissemination of information including the The FDA can approve an ANDA for a generic lengthy process.
For example, research and ability of reports to go viral online mean version of a branded drug without requiring development R&D required to develop health that potential threats to reputation can occur the applicant to undertake the full clinical products could take a significant period of time, in a very short period of time and reach a far testing necessary to obtain approval to market from discovery to commercial product launch, broader audience than historically was the case, a new drug.
An ANDA applicant usually needs and given the limited duration of patents, making it far more difficult to address.
to only submit data demonstrating that its the longer we take to develop and launch product has the same active ingredient s and a product, the less time for which we have Moreover, third parties may sell products that is bioequivalent to the branded product, in exclusivity, in which we can recoup our are counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our addition to any data necessary to establish that development costs and seek to profit.
We may brands, or inferior lookalike brands that any difference in strength, dosage form, be unable to successfully complete clinical trials resemble ours.
Consumers may confuse our inactive ingredients or delivery mechanism does and obtain applicable regulatory approvals in a products with such brands.
not result in different safety or efficacy profiles, timely manner, or at all, and may fail to gain We could be materially adversely affected by as compared to the reference drug.
Although market approval for our products.
Additionally, the loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone we have filed a patent infringement lawsuit we may encounter infringement claims by and Subutex.
against the ANDA applicants noted above, competitors, which may preclude or delay which means that the FDA cannot approve the commercialisation of our products.
Any delays Our RB Pharmaceuticals business, which generic entrant until the earlier of 30 months could result in us not being the first to market, manufactures and distributes Subutex a or the disposition of the patent infringement and could undermine our competitive buprenorphine-based treatment for opiate proceedings, the lawsuit may not be resolved in advantage.
If any of the products we are dependence and Suboxone a buprenorphine our favour or we may choose to settle due to currently developing, or may develop in future, and naloxone-based treatment for opiate the unpredictable nature and significant costs fail to become market-ready or to achieve dependence, generated 8% of our net revenue of patent litigation.
If any other generic commercial success at expected levels, or at all, and 16% of our operating profit before company is able to obtain FDA approval of its we may incur substantial losses.
If we fail to exceptional items in 2013. generic Suboxone sublingual Film, it may be develop or upgrade our equipment, technology The introduction of generic products typically able to launch its generic version of Suboxone and manufacturing processes at least in line leads to a loss of sales of the branded product sublingual Film prior to the expiration of any with our competitors, we may be unable to and a decrease in the price at which branded or all of the applicable patents covering our compete effectively and lose market share.
In the United States, the Suboxone sublingual Film.
Substantial harm to our reputation, or the exclusivity afforded to Suboxone by its orphan Further, pharmacies may discontinue stocking, reputation of one or more of our brands, may drug status under the regulations of the US doctors may stop prescribing, and payors may materially adversely affect our business.
Food and Drug Administration FDA ended in reduce the reimbursement on or may stop 2009.
Suboxone has marketing approval from The majority of our brands have worldwide reimbursing, Suboxone sublingual Film, which the European Commission for treatment in the recognition.
Maintaining our established may have an additional adverse impact on 28 countries of the European Union, Norway reputation and trust with key stakeholders, our revenue.
and Iceland, with data exclusivity until 2016. including consumers, customers and trading Two manufacturers launched generic Suboxone Loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone partners is critical to our business.
Various tablets in March 2013, which have gained a and Subutex, whether due to competition from factors may adversely impact our reputation, 13% volume by mg market share according generic products or due to decisions not to including product quality inconsistencies or to Source Healthcare Analytics Pharmaceutical prescribe or stock our drugs, could have a contamination.
We have in the past faced Audit Suite Weekly Data as at 27 December material adverse effect on our results of quality-related issues, which resulted in trade 2013 of the buprenorphine market in the operations and our business.
and consumer recalls and such recalls may have United States.
a material adverse impact on our reputation.
We compete in intensely competitive industries.
Raw materials that we source for production In March 2013, based on the enhanced We face vigorous competition worldwide.
We may become contaminated through the supply benefits of our Suboxone sublingual Film compete with well-established local, regional, chain, and other product defects may occur which we launched in August 2010 and the national and international companies that due to human error or equipment failure, reduction in unintended paediatric exposure target the same consumer base as we do, some among other things.
Reputational risks may due to its unit-dose child resistant packaging, of whom may have more significant resources also arise with respect to the methods and we voluntarily withdrew our Suboxone tablets with which to establish and promote their practices of third parties that are part of our from the US market.
We also face competition from supply chain, including labour standards, manufacturers to introduce branded tablets private label products, and generic nonhealth, safety and environmental standards, that contain buprenorphine.
branded products, which typically are sold at raw material sourcing, and ethical standards Orexo has recently introduced branded tablets lower prices, by major retail companies, some in the countries in which we operate.
We may that contain buprenorphine.
These tablets of whom may be our customers.
Competition also be the victim of product tampering.
Any may capture market share from our Suboxone from these sources has grown in recent years.
perceived or actual concerns related to our sublingual Film.
Although our Suboxone In the pharmaceutical sector, we also compete products, our supply chain, or the industry sublingual Film has a volume market share of with big generic manufacturers and smaller more generally, such as the long-term effects 68% of the US buprenorphine-based opioid branded firms, as well as R&D firms, which may of household chemicals and OTC over-theaddiction treatment market, as of 31 December have more significant resources than we do.
counter drug ingredients on human health and 2013, we expect that increased price pressure Consolidation of key trade customers in the the environment, may be widely disseminated will lead to a material reduction in net revenue sectors in which we operate may limit online, on consumer blogs or other social from this product and adversely affect our opportunities for growth, and increase media sites, or via print and broadcast media.
overall revenues and operating profit.
94 RB Annual Report 2013 Our Relationships and Principal Risks Our products generally compete on the basis of prepare our financial statements in pounds pandemics or other outbreaks of diseases, acts product quality and performance, promotional sterling, and our financial results are affected of war or terrorism, or otherwise, may affect activities, brand recognition, price, timely by fluctuations among the relative value our ability to source raw materials on a more development and launch, or other benefits to of Sterling and other functional currencies, global basis, and negatively impact our costs.
If we are unable to offer products particularly the US dollar and Euro.
For The failure of a number of third party suppliers that consumers choose over our competitors example, in FY 2013, we incurred a net to fulfil their contractual obligations, in a timely products, our business and results of operations exchange loss on foreign currency translation, manner, or at all, may result in delays or may be materially adversely affected.
In net of tax, of 363m in our statement of disruptions to our business.
Replacing suppliers addition, our products compete with other comprehensive income.
Further, currency may require a new supplier to be qualified products for shelf space in retail stores and translations may make it more difficult for under industry, governmental or our standards, for marketing focus, such as via in-store investors to understand the relative strengths which could require investment and may promotional activities of our brands.
Our or weaknesses of the underlying business on take time.
competitive position, and consequently sales of a period-to-period comparative basis.
In addition, a number of our facilities are our products, may be harmed to the extent that We currently hedge some of our currency critical to our business and major or prolonged we are unable to successfully maintain sound exposures using financial instruments, and disruption at those facilities, whether due working relationships with our trade customers, we try to align our interest costs and operating to accidents, sabotage or otherwise could who determine access to shelf space and profits of our major currencies where possible, materially adversely affect our operations.
product placement on shelf, set retail prices which may not be effective.
Hedging Moreover, sites in which our products are and control in-store promotional activities transactions do not eliminate the exchange manufactured are subject to supervision by of our brands, and can establish pricing rate risk entirely, and may not be fully, or at regulatory agencies, on both an ongoing and differentials between similar products on all, effective.
For example, Suboxone sublingual shelf.
As the retail sector becomes more Film is manufactured at a single-source concentrated, retailers could impose downward We are subject to the risk that countries in production facility in the United States, and pressure on prices and require commercial which we operate may impose or increase FDA approval is generally limited to the specific incentives before agreeing to offer our products exchange controls or devalue their currency.
If we are unable for sale to consumers.
Further, to the extent We operate in a number of countries, to obtain or produce sufficient quantities of a trade customers increase usage of their own particularly emerging markets, which impose particular product, at specifically approved distribution networks and private label brands, exchange controls, including, but not limited facilities, whether due to disruption to, or the competitive advantage we derive from to, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia, failure of, our manufacturing processes, or our brand equity could be impaired.
In South Africa and Venezuela.
Such controls may otherwise, we may fail to meet customer addition, new sales channels have emerged, restrict or make it impossible to convert local demand on a timely basis, which could and continue to emerge, such as sales made currency into other currencies, restrict our undermine our sales and result in customer through the Internet via online shopping, ability to repatriate earnings from a country dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation.
which may affect customer and consumer for example, 109m of our cash and cash In addition, any failure to comply with preferences, and competitive dynamics.
If equivalents as at 31 December 2013 were applicable legal requirements could lead to we are unable to effectively compete in these restricted for use by us, borrow on the interruption of production, product recalls, new channels, this could adversely impact our international markets to fund operations in seizures and revocation of licenses to operate results and our prospects.
Moreover, increased that country or limit our ability to import raw at any of our facilities.
competition means that we need to spend materials or finished products, any or all of more on promotion of our products.
Any interruption or disruption in our which could materially adversely affect our supply chain, particularly if significant or Any of the foregoing could have a material business, liquidity and results of operations.
prolonged, could materially adversely affect adverse impact on our future sales and In addition, emerging markets are prone to our business, prospects, results of operations prospects, consequently adversely impacting currency devaluations, such as, for example, the and financial condition.
Competition also devaluation by the government of Venezuela of extends to administrative and legal challenges its currency in February 2013, which tend to Volatility in the price of commodities, energy of product claims and advertising.
Responding make our products more expensive in local and transportation may impact our profitability.
to legal challenges and defending our products currency terms.
Certain materials for the production or and intellectual property rights could result in We face risks of interruptions of our supply packaging of finished goods, such as oil-related significant expenses and may divert resources chain and disruptions in our production commodities, are subject to fluctuating prices.
away from product and technological facilities, which could materially adversely affect Increases in the costs or decreases in the innovation, which may have a material adverse our results of operations.
availability of these commodities, and impact on our financial condition and results increases in other costs such as energy and of operations.
We source our raw and packaging materials transportation, could adversely affect our including bulk chemicals, plastics, pulp and We are exposed to foreign currency exchange profitability if we are unable to pass on the metal cans and finished goods from a wide rate risk.
higher costs in the form of price increases or variety of predominantly international chemical otherwise achieve cost efficiencies.
Even if we We operate on a global basis, and hold assets, and packaging companies and co-packers.
were to increase the prices of our products, incur liabilities, earn revenues, pay expenses, We also outsource the manufacture of some competitors may opt not to adjust their prices and make investments in a number of of our products to third parties.
Our suppliers in response to increasing costs and customers currencies, with our non-UK operations generally are diversified in terms of geography may refuse to pay higher prices.
Our inability generating a significant portion of our net and supplied items, but we may face risks to to manage this risk effectively, or at all, could revenue.
In FY 2013, 93% of our net revenue continuity of supply arising from certain have a material adverse effect on our results was derived from markets outside the United specialised suppliers, both of raw materials and of operations.
The Sterling value of our revenues, of third party manufactured items, including profits and cash flows from non-UK markets specialty chemicals and components.
We may We have grown, and may continue to grow, in may be reduced or our supply costs, as also incur higher prices for raw materials than part, through acquisitions, joint ventures and measured in Sterling in those markets, may we may otherwise have to pay if we adopted business alliances, which involve various risks.
Additionally, a number of our a more concentrated approach to obtaining While we are principally focused on organic competitors are based in countries whose supplies.
More generally, significant disruptions growth, we have in the past grown, and expect currencies fluctuate against Sterling, and they to our suppliers operations, such as disruptions in the future to continue to grow, through may benefit from having their costs incurred resulting from natural catastrophes including acquisitions.
Acquisitions present a range of in weaker currencies relative to Sterling.
We as a result of the effects of climate change, risks and uncertainties.
RB Annual Report 2013 95 Our Relationships and Principal Risks Historically we have funded acquisitions and regulatory risks.
In addition, acquisitions in A disruption to, or failure of, our information through short-term borrowings, which we markets in which we have limited or no prior technology systems and infrastructure, may repaid through cash flow from our operations.
experience may pose a greater risk.
Moreover, adversely affect our business.
In the past three years, we have moved away integration of acquired businesses, as well as We are increasingly dependent on information from this model due in part to the size of the any attendant internal reorganisation, can also technology systems and infrastructure to acquisitions.
We expect that future acquisitions require significant management attention, support a wide variety of key businesses will be funded through either additional which may place strain on management processes, including processing and storage of borrowings or through equity, or a combination resources and processes, and otherwise disrupt confidential data, as well as for international of the two.
We are shifting our capital structure operations.
Acquisitions can also place a strain and external communications as part of our in favour of more medium-term borrowings, in on Group-wide internal control systems.
logistics and distribution functions with part to be able to fund larger acquisitions.
This If we are unable to effectively manage risks suppliers, customers and consumers.
Failures in turn could result in an increase in our net associated with acquisitions, our business, or disruptions to our systems or the systems debt, and will likely increase our level of interest financial condition and results of operations of third parties on whom we rely, due to any expense as we move away from the commercial may be materially adversely affected.
number of causes, particularly if prolonged, paper market, which has benefited from the or if any failure or disruption were to impact low interest rate environment following the In addition, we may choose to enter into joint our backup or disaster recovery plans, could financial crisis.
Material or transformative ventures, business alliances or collaboration result in a loss of key data and or affect acquisitions could require shareholder approval, agreements, which could involve the same or our operations.
either due to the level of equity funding or due similar risks and uncertainties as are involved to corporate governance requirements.
For example, we recently The combination of our recently initiated we target a strong investment grade A banded entered into a three-year collaboration strategic business reorganisation and enterprise credit rating for our debt, acquisitions of a agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb for a resource planning ERP programmes could certain size, to the extent we rely more heavily number of market-leading OTC consumer result in sub-optimal implementations and on debt funding, could place pressure on our health care brands in Brazil, Mexico and certain reduced focus due to conflicting demands for credit rating.
other parts of Latin America.
generally involve a lesser degree of control over Our competitors may choose to target the same Our computer systems, software and networks business operations, which have in the past acquisition candidates, and consolidation in the may be vulnerable to unauthorised access from presented, and may in the future present, industry may limit available opportunities for within our organisation or by third parties, greater financial, legal, operational and or acquisitions.
We may also be restricted by computer viruses or other malicious code and compliance risks.
applicable antitrust laws, foreign investment other cyber threats that could have a security laws, or other laws and regulations, from We may be unable to attract and retain impact.
The occurrence of one or more of these pursuing acquisitions, in which case we may qualified personnel, including key senior events potentially could jeopardise confidential, bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses management.
proprietary and other information processed associated with a failed acquisition.
and stored in, and transmitted through, our We invest in recruiting and training personnel computer systems and networks, or otherwise We may fail to achieve projected financial and senior management.
Our business cause interruptions or malfunctions in our results of acquisitions, including expected cost depends, in part, on executive officers and operations, which could result in significant and revenue synergies.
In making acquisitions, senior management to provide uninterrupted losses or reputational damage.
we make various assessments, including leadership and direction for our business, expected growth rates which we may fail to and qualified personnel for product R&D.
This We may be required to expend significant achieve.
To the extent that economic benefits need is all the more acute in the context of a additional resources to modify our protective associated with our acquisitions diminish in the growing business, and the strategic internal measures or to investigate and remediate future, we may be required to record reorganisations and resource planning vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may impairment charges to goodwill or other assets, programmes to promote and manage such be subject to litigation and financial losses which could affect our financial condition.
The market for talent is intensely that are either not insured against or not fully competitive and may become increasingly covered through any insurance maintained by Through our acquisitions, we may also assume more competitive.
We could face challenges us.
Furthermore, we routinely transmit and unknown or undisclosed business, operational, in sourcing qualified personnel, with the receive personal, confidential and proprietary tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to requisite training and suitable international information by email and other electronic properly assess known contingent liabilities experience, particularly in countries such as means.
We have discussed and worked with or assume businesses with internal control China, where the availability of skilled customers, suppliers, counterparties and other deficiencies.
While we seek to mitigate these employees may be limited.
third parties to develop secure transmission risks in most of our transactions through, capabilities, but we do not have, and may be among other things, due diligence processes Further, variable pay is, and will continue unable to put in place, secure capabilities with and indemnification provisions, we cannot be to be, the major element of our current all such third parties and we may not be able to certain that the due diligence processes we Executive Directors and Senior Executives ensure that these third parties have appropriate conduct are adequate particularly with respect total compensation package.
If we achieve controls in place to protect the confidentiality to acquisitions of privately held companies our target levels of performance, the variable of the information.
An interception, misuse and in countries where legislation and elements will amount to 59%-76% of or mishandling of personal, confidential or transparency make the process more difficult Executive Directors total remuneration.
If we proprietary information being sent to or or that the indemnification provisions and are unable to achieve our performance targets, received from a customer, supplier, other risk mitigation measures we put in place our senior management would not be entitled counterparty or other third party could result will be sufficient.
to such variable pay, which may operate as in legal liability, regulatory action and a disincentive for them to continue their We could also face significant risks related reputational harm.
to integration of the acquired businesses into Our business is subject to significant the RB Group, particularly if we attempt to The loss of key personnel, or our inability governmental regulation.
to recruit qualified personnel to meet our Acquisitions in emerging markets, such as operational needs, may delay, or curtail the Our business and products are heavily regulated China, where we recently completed an achievement of major strategic objectives, by governments and other regulatory bodies in acquisition, may impose particular risks related and could adversely impact our business.
the countries in which we operate.
Regulation to integration across different corporate is imposed in respect of, but not limited to, cultures, systems, languages and other market ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour 96 RB Annual Report 2013 Our Relationships and Principal Risks standards, product safety and quality, by allegations of individual employee announcement of our HY 2013 results, we marketing, packaging, labelling, storage, misconduct in violation of internal policies reported a provision of 225m, principally distribution, advertising, imports and exports, and procedures.
social and environmental responsibility and Regulatory authorities and consumer groups Our strategy for growth has historically health and safety.
In addition, we are required may, from time to time, request or conduct included, and continues to include, acquisition to obtain and maintain licenses in respect reviews of the use of certain ingredients that activities, which are subject to antitrust and of certain of our products, which must be are used in manufacturing our products, the competition laws.
Such laws and regulations regularly updated in order to improve our results of which may have a material adverse may impact our ability to pursue, or delay the products and take into account any variations.
For example, parabens, implementation of, strategic transactions.
If we are found by regulators or courts to a family of chemicals commonly used as have been non-compliant with applicable laws We operate in a number of countries in which preservatives in personal care, cosmetic and and regulations, we could be subject to civil bribery and corruption pose significant risks, pharmaceutical products, underwent a review remedies such as fines, injunctions or product and we may be exposed to liabilities under by the European Commissions Scientific recalls, and or criminal sanctions, any of which anti-bribery laws for any violations.
Any Committee on Consumer Safety in May 2013. could have a material adverse effect on our violation of applicable money laundering laws Based on the findings of that review, business, reputation, financial condition and could also have a negative impact on us.
restrictions were introduced to limit the use results of operations.
of certain parabens butyl and propyl and We are subject to anti-bribery laws and We are subject to the introduction of new to ban others iso in cosmetic products regulations that prohibit us and our regulations, modification of existing regulations sold across Europe.
Furthermore, several intermediaries from making improper payments or changes in interpretations of existing or European countries such as Denmark and or offers of payments to foreign governments, new regulations.
Changes to the laws and France are considering banning the use of their officials and political parties or private regulations to which we and our operations parabens altogether.
parties, for the purpose of gaining or retaining are subject, whether as a result of new or business, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, Ingredient legislation, such as the one related more stringent requirements, or more stringent the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, to parabens, could have a detrimental impact interpretations of existing requirements, as amended, and similar laws worldwide.
on our business, undermine our reputation and could impact the way we conduct our business Given our extensive international operations, goodwill and affect consumer demand for or market our products for example, particularly in emerging markets, where bribery products containing such ingredients.
We may up-scheduling of an OTC product would result and corruption may be more commonplace, we voluntarily remove, or be required to remove, in it being moved from on-the-shelf to behind are exposed to significant risks, particularly with certain ingredients from our products or any the counter and could impose significant respect to parties that are not always subject to products that we may acquire.
We may not be compliance costs and have a material adverse our control such as agents and joint venture able to develop an alternative formulation, effect on our results of operations.
These risks may be heightened for us successfully modify our existing products or due to our operations in the health care sector, The laws and regulations to which we are obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a which in recent years has experienced greater subject may not be transparent, may be timely basis or at all, which could adversely compliance risks than other sectors.
We may difficult to interpret, and or may be enforced impact our business and results of operations.
also be held liable for successor liability inconsistently.
Historical or future violations of antitrust and violations of such laws, committed by In our experience, emerging markets can pose competition laws may have a material adverse companies which we acquire, or in which we heightened risks with respect to laws and impact on our business, financial condition and invest.
Acquisitions also expose us to risk of regulations, when compared with countries results of operations.
ongoing compliance issues until such time as with more developed institutional structures.
we can fully integrate acquired operations We are subject to antitrust and competition Given our focus on growth in RUMEA and into our compliance and control frameworks.
laws in the vast majority of countries in which LAPAC, we are exposed to heightened Moreover, due to the significant amounts of we do business.
Failure to comply with regulatory risks.
For example, in some money involved in global supply contracts, applicable antitrust and competition laws, rules emerging market countries, the laws and there is also potential for suppliers to attempt and regulations in any jurisdiction in which we regulations to which we are subject may not to bribe our employees.
Actual or alleged operate may result in civil and or criminal legal always be fully transparent, can be difficult to violations of anti-bribery laws could result in proceedings being brought against us.
interpret and may be enforced inconsistently.
severe consequences, including, but not limited The legal systems in such countries may not We have in the past been, currently are, and to, civil and criminal sanctions, termination of be well-established or reliable.
There may be may in the future be, subject to investigations contracts by our counterparties, disruptions a lack of respect for the rule of law, a lack of and legal proceedings with respect to antitrust to our business and reputational harm, all of enforcement of property rights, inconsistent and competition issues.
In 2010, we were fined which could materially and adversely affect our or insufficient access to remedy through legal 10.2m by the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT financial condition and results of operations.
systems, lack of judicial independence and following our admission that we had infringed We also deal with significant amounts of corruption, which could result in greater UK and EU competition rules on abuse of cash in our operations and are subject to uncertainty in enforcing contracts, difficulties dominance in respect of our supply of Gaviscon various reporting and anti-money laundering in obtaining legal redress, particularly against Original Liquid brand alginates antacids to the regulations.
Any violation of anti-money the state or state-owned entities, and higher National Health Service.
Based in part on the laundering laws or regulations by us could have operational costs and risks to our business.
OFT decision, we have received civil claims for a negative effect on our results of operations.
damages from the health authorities of We could be subject to investigations and England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, Our business is subject to product potential enforcement action, which could have and certain pharmaceutical companies.
a material adverse effect on our business.
also involved in certain competition law-related As a product manufacturer, we are subject, We could be subject to regulatory investigations proceedings in other countries.
Competition from time to time, to certain legal proceedings or potential enforcement action that targets and antitrust violations enquiries often continue and claims arising out of our products, an industry, a set of business practices or our for several years, can be subject to strict including as a result of unanticipated side specific operations.
These investigations or non-disclosure provisions, and, if laws are effects or issues that become evident only after enforcement actions could be in respect of deemed to have been violated, can result in products are widely introduced into the specific industry issues or broader business substantial fines and other sanctions, which marketplace.
Some of our products present conduct issues.
Moreover, these investigations may have a material adverse effect on our inherent dangers, including due to the presence or enforcement actions could be triggered by business, reputation, financial condition and of chemicals, which if mishandled or misused, allegations of general corporate misconduct or results of operations.
As part of the RB Annual Report 2013 97 Our Relationships and Principal Risks could result in significant damage.
We have coverage we maintain may not cover our losses tax investigations in a number of jurisdictions paid in the past, and may be required in the fully, or at all.
If material challenges were future to pay, compensation for losses or to be successful, our effective tax rate may We cannot predict the outcome of individual injuries that are allegedly caused by our increase, we may be required to modify legal actions.
We may settle litigation or products.
Product liability claims may arise, structures at significant costs to us, we may regulatory proceedings prior to a final judgment among other things, from claims that our also be subject to interest and penalty charges or determination of liability.
We may do so to products are defective, contain contaminants, and we may incur costs in defending litigation avoid the cost, management efforts or negative provide inadequate warnings or instructions, or or reaching a settlement.
Any of the foregoing business, regulatory or reputational cause personal injury to persons or damage to could materially and adversely affect our consequences of continuing to contest liability, property.
Product liability claims, if resolved business, financial condition and results even when we believe we have valid defences unfavourably, or if settled, could result in of operations.
We may also do so when the injunctions and or may require us to pay potential consequences of failing to prevail We may be unable to secure and protect our substantial damages, and related costs, would be disproportionate to the costs of intellectual property rights.
including punitive damages, as well as result in settlement.
Substantial legal liability could the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions.
Our business relies on protecting our brands materially adversely affect our business, and intellectual property rights.
We may not If one of our products is found to be defective, financial condition or results of operations be able to obtain and perfect our intellectual we could be required to recall it, and or we or could cause significant reputational harm, property rights and, even if obtained, these may be required to alter our trademarks, labels, which could seriously harm our business.
rights may be invalidated, circumvented or or packaging, which could result in adverse Labour disruptions may affect our results challenged in future.
Third parties may infringe publicity, significant expenses, potential of operations.
on, or misappropriate, our rights, by for disruptions in our supply chain and loss of example, asserting rights in, or ownership of, revenue.
We have in the past voluntarily A substantial portion of our workforce is our trademarks, trade dress rights, designs, implemented, and may in the future face unionised, and our relationship with unions, patents, copyrights or other intellectual product quality concerns and voluntarily including labour disputes or work stoppages, property rights.
If we fail to discover any implement, product recalls, which could expose could have an adverse impact on our financial infringements of our intellectual property us to product liability claims.
We are a party to collective bargaining rights, or are otherwise unable to successfully complaints, investigations and litigation by agreements covering approximately one-third defend and enforce our rights, our business, consumers or government authorities relating of our direct employees.
If, upon the expiration prospects, and results of operations could be to our products, our competitors products or of such collective bargaining agreements, we materially adversely affected.
Sales of individual ingredients may result in judgments are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts counterfeit or unauthorised versions of our that affect us and or the industry in which we with labour unions, it could result in strikes by brands or inferior lookalike brands which operate.
A recall of a product that is similar to the affected workers and thereby significantly resemble ours, could result in confusion among ours could result in confusion concerning the disrupt our operations.
Further, if we are consumers between our products and such scope of the recall and or a decline in consumer unable to control health care and pension other brands.
Consequently, our brand equity confidence about our products, which may costs provided for in the collective bargaining and reputation may be undermined.
Any failure consequently impact our business and results agreements, we may experience increased to perfect or successfully assert our intellectual of operations.
We may not be insured fully, or operating costs and an adverse impact on property rights could make us less competitive at all, in respect of such risks, and we have in future results of operations.
and may have a material adverse effect the past, and may in the future, face disputes Changes in tax legislation and other on our business, operating results and with our insurers in the event that they refuse circumstances that affect tax calculations could financial condition.
In such instances, adversely affect our financial condition and we may be required to bear substantial losses, In addition, our intellectual property rights results of operations.
which could adversely impact our capital may be undermined if one of our trademarks expenditures, expenses and liabilities.
Any of We conduct business operations in a number or brand names were to become a generic the foregoing could materially adversely impact of countries, and are therefore subject to tax name for, or synonymous with, a general class our business, financial condition and results of and intercompany pricing laws in multiple of product or service.
Should any of our operations.
jurisdictions, including those relating to the trademarks become genericised, competitors flow of funds between RB and its subsidiaries.
may be allowed to use the genericised Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside Our effective tax rate in any given financial year trademark to describe their similar products the product liability area could also adversely reflects a variety of factors that may not be in certain countries.
impact our business, results of operations and present in succeeding financial years, and may financial condition.
The loss of patent protection, ineffective be affected by changes in the tax laws of the protection, or expiration of our patents may Outside the product liability area, we are jurisdictions in which we operate, or the impact our financial condition and results of subject to legal proceedings and other claims interpretation of such tax laws.
arising out of the ordinary course of business, positions taken by us are based on industry and we may become involved in legal practice, tax advice and drawing similarities Intellectual property laws and patent offices proceedings, which include, but are not from our facts and circumstances to those in are still developing, particularly in emerging limited to, claims alleging intellectual property case law.
In particular, international transfer markets.
Patent protection varies in different rights infringement, breach of contract, pricing is an area of taxation that depends countries, and can be substantially weaker environmental laws and health and safety heavily on the underlying facts and in emerging markets in which we operate, laws.
From time to time, we face consumer circumstances and generally involves a when compared to the United States and the complaints and or civil or criminal investigations significant degree of judgement.
We have in the past faced, in respect of our products and their alleged and may in the future face, significant Changes in tax laws, regulations and related purposes, including in respect of advertising challenges in enforcing or extending our interpretations and increased enforcement claims that we make about our products.
current intellectual property protections, or any actions and penalties may alter the environment Significant claims, or a substantial number of protections we may obtain in future, in the in which we do business, and tax planning small claims, may be expensive to defend and same manner as in more developed regions arrangements are frequently scrutinised by tax may divert management time and our resources such as the United States and European Union.
Where appropriate, We have obtained patent protection for a we establish provisions to cover potential We have in the past faced, and may in the variety of our intellectual property, including the litigation-related costs.
Such provisions may future face, audits and challenges brought by composition of some of our products such as turn out to be insufficient, and any insurance tax authorities, and we are involved in ongoing 98 RB Annual Report 2013 Our Relationships and Principal Risks detergent, and in respect of our prescription Implementation of this strategy will increase Foreign Exchange Risk drug Suboxone sublingual Film.
Infringement our levels of interest expense compared to The Group prepares its financial statements in of our patent-protected intellectual property recent years that benefited from low interest Sterling but conducts business in many foreign may occur, particularly in emerging market rates since 2008. currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign countries.
Certain countries may adopt exchange risk due to the effects that exchange We are subject to risks relating to estimates and measures to facilitate competition within their rate movements have on the translation of the assumptions that we are required to make, and markets from generic manufacturers, and results and the underlying net assets of its that affect the reported amounts in our refuse to recognise patent protection.
example, a recent decision in India not to grant The Groups policy is to align interest costs a new patent to an industry participant for a The preparation of our financial statements and operating profit of its major currencies in modified form of a drug that holds patent requires management to make estimates and order to provide some protection against the protection elsewhere, reflects the heightened assumptions that affect the reported amounts translation exposure on foreign currency profits risk we may face in emerging markets.
of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings Additionally, expiry of our patents may increase date and revenue and expenses during the and other hedging methods in the currencies competition and pricing pressures, and reporting period.
Although estimates are based of the countries where most of its assets adversely impact our sales revenue, if generic on managements best knowledge at the time, are located.
products in the same or similar product class actual amounts may ultimately differ from were to emerge.
We could be similarly those estimates.
For example, measurement For transactions, it is the Groups policy to impacted if competitors lose patent protection of intangible assets, both in acquisitions and monitor and, only where appropriate, hedge its in a product class in which we compete.
business combinations, requires us to identify foreign currency transaction exposures.
These such assets and any assumptions and estimates transaction exposures arise mainly from foreign We may face challenges to our intellectual of future cash flows and appropriate discount currency receipts and payments for goods and property rights, including allegations of rates to value identified assets may be impacted services, and from the remittance of foreign infringement of others rights.
by various factors, including adverse economic currency dividends and loans.
The local business We may face challenges to our intellectual conditions, or integration issues.
units enter into forward foreign exchange property rights from third parties, who allege contracts with GT to manage these exposures, Compliance and Routine Risks that we are infringing on their rights.
If we where practical and allowed by local In order to manage the more numerous and are unable to successfully defend against regulations.
GT manages the Group exposures, routine risks, the Group maintains a complete allegations of infringement, we may face and hedges the net position where possible, and robust governance framework.
This various sanctions, including injunctions, using spot and forward foreign currency consists of a full set of policies, processes and monetary sanctions for past infringement, exchange contracts.
systems covering all aspects of compliance, product recalls, alterations to our intellectual with international and local laws as well as with Market Price Risk property, products, and or packaging, which the Groups stated minimum control standards.
Due to the nature of its business the Group is could result in significant expense and negative exposed to commodity price risk related to the publicity, and may have a material adverse Management provides primary assurance by production or packaging of finished goods such effect on our financial condition and results driving risk compliance through their respective as oil-related, and a diverse range of other, of operations.
area, regional or functional responsibility.
This risk is, however, managed is done through regular and detailed business Our business may be adversely affected by our primarily through medium-term contracts with reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided funding requirements.
certain key suppliers and is not viewed as being independently through a combination of a material risk.
The Group is not exposed to Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to internal and external audit covering all aspects equity securities price risk.
generate cash from operations and the level of of the Groups operations.
borrowings and related levels of headroom, Interest Rate Risk Financial Risk Management the level of acquisition, the level of share The Group has both interest-bearing and non The Groups multinational operations expose repurchases and dividends, dispositions, target interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group it to a variety of financial risks that include the ratings for our debt and options available to monitors its interest expense rate exposure on effects of changes in foreign currency exchange us in the equity and debt markets.
The Group manages its interest rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, we have obtained our funding from the rate exposure on its gross financial assets by interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
commercial paper market and have benefited using fixed rate term deposits.
from the low interest rate environment The Group has in place a risk management Credit Risk following the financial crisis.
programme that uses foreign currency financial The Group has no significant concentrations of instruments, including debt, and other We maintain committed back-up credit credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties instruments, to limit the impact of these risks facilities, which have remained undrawn since are subject to approval under the Groups on the financial performance of the Group.
At 31 December 2013, we had counterparty risk policy and such approval is 4,350m in undrawn commitments.
If we The Groups financing and financial risk limited to financial institutions with a BBB are not able to access the commercial paper management activities are centralised into rating or above.
The Group uses BBB and market to the extent that we require, or at all, Group Treasury GT to achieve benefits of scale higher rated counterparties to manage risk and we may need to drawdown amounts under and control.
GT manages financial exposures uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.
our committed bilateral credit facilities, which of the Group centrally in a manner consistent The amount of exposure to any individual accrue interest at floating rates based on with underlying business risks.
GT manages counterparty is subject to a limit defined within changes in certain published rates such as only those risks and flows generated by the the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed LIBOR.
Increases in such rates could result in underlying commercial operations and annually by the Board.
significantly higher interest expense for us, speculative transactions are not undertaken.
Liquidity Risk which would negatively affect our results The Board reviews and agrees policies, The Group has bilateral credit facilities with of operations.
guidelines and authority levels for all areas high-quality international banks.
All of these As part of our strategy to maintain financial of Treasury activity and individually approves facilities have similar or equivalent terms and flexibility, as well as to procure additional significant activities.
GT operates under the conditions, and have a financial covenant, funding for future acquisitions, including both close control of the CFO and is subject to which is not expected to restrict the Groups bolt-on acquisitions as well as acquisitions that periodic independent reviews and audits, future operations.
The committed borrowing may be more material in size, we are seeking both internal and external.
facilities, together with available uncommitted to increase the level of medium-term funding.
facilities and central cash and investments, are RB Annual Report 2013 99 Our Relationships and Principal Risks the Company has provided returns to considered sufficient to meet the Groups Shareholders in the form of dividends, the projected cash requirements.
current details of which are included in the Funds over and above those required for Financial Review for the year on page 15, and short-term working capital purposes by the share buy backs.
overseas businesses are generally remitted to The Group monitors net debt total borrowings GT.
The Group uses the remittances to settle less cash and cash equivalents: short-term obligations, repay borrowings or, in the event available for sale financial assets and financing of a surplus, invest in short-term instruments derivative financial instruments and at the year issued by institutions with a BBB rating or above.
end the Group had net debt of 2,096m 2012: Capital Management 2,426m.
The Group seeks to pay down net The Groups objectives for managing capital debt using cash generated by the business to are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue maintain an appropriate level of financial as a going concern, in order to provide returns flexibility.
for Shareholders and benefits for other Details of numerical disclosures relating to the stakeholders, and to maintain an efficient Groups financial risk management are included capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
in note 14 to the financial statements on pages In maintaining an appropriate capital structure 70 to 73. and providing returns for Shareholders, in 2013 100 RB Annual Report 2013 Notes RB Annual Report 2013 101 Notes 102 RB Annual Report 2013 Notes RB Annual Report 2013 103
