Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Treasury policies and risk management RB at any time on or after 28 July 2009, Report of the Board policies: benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in The Company enjoys a premium listing respect of the costs of defending claims Significant changes to borrowing facilities or on the London Stock Exchange and is against him or her and third party liabilities.
foreign currency transactions: and therefore required to produce a Corporate Additionally, Directors and Officers liability Governance Statement containing the Review and approval of recommendations insurance cover was maintained throughout information set out in this Report.
This from the Committees of the Board.
the year at the Companys expense.
Report is prepared with reference to the The annual review of this schedule was A.
2: DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate undertaken in November 2013 as part of the There is a clear division of responsibilities Governance Code Code in effect for the performance evaluations conducted for the between the Chairman and the CEO.
financial periods beginning on or after 2013 financial year.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall 1 October 2012.
This Report sets out how the operation, leadership and governance of Company has applied the Main Principles of the The principal activities undertaken by the Board the Board.
Code throughout the year ended 31 December are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 3 2013 and as at the date of this Report.
The CEO is responsible for the executive management of RBs business, consistent with Meetings A: Leadership the strategy and commercial objectives agreed Board meetings are structured to allow open by the Board.
The CEO chairs the Executive A.
1: THE ROLE OF THE BOARD discussion.
The Board meets a minimum of Committee and, together with the CFO, certain The Board leads and controls RBs business five times a year and constitutes additional Group functional heads and area EVPs he with a Board structure similar to that of its meetings including by telephone or written appoints to the Committee, provides the principal international competitors.
The Board resolution to consider specific matters which day-to-day management of the Company.
approves strategy, carries out an advisory it has reserved to itself for decision.
Biographical details of the members of the and supervisory role and accepts ultimate In 2013, there were five regular Board meetings Executive Committee are set out on page 20. responsibility for the conduct of RBs business.
There were four The matters delegated to the CEO by the The schedule of matters reserved for the Audit Committee meetings, four Remuneration Board include: Boards decision includes: Committee meetings plus one additional Power to delegate the day-to-day Takeover offers and the response to any meeting and one Nomination Committee management of the business of the takeover approach: meeting.
The table below sets out the Company to each of the Officers of the attendance by individual Directors at scheduled Significant acquisitions, disposals and capital Executive Committee, acting individually Board and Committee meetings.
expenditure projects: or as a group or sub-committee: Directors Insurance and Indemnities Final approval of annual budgets and Power to acquire and dispose of businesses The Directors benefit from the indemnity corporate plans: and to approve unbudgeted capital provision in the Companys Articles of expenditure projects subject, in each case, Approval of financial statements and Association.
Each individual, who is an Officer to a 50m limit: and Shareholder communications: of the Company and or of any company within Number of Scheduled Meetings Attended during 2013 Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 5 4 1 Richard Cousins 5 4 Nicandro Durante a n a n a Peter Harf b 4 1 Adrian Hennah 4 Kenneth Hydon 5 4 1 Rakesh Kapoor 5 1 Andr Lacroix 5 4 1 Graham Mackay c 1 1 Judith Sprieser b 4 4 1 Warren Tucker 5 4 Notes a There were no scheduled Board meetings in 2013 subsequent to the appointment of Nicandro Durante.
b Peter Harf and Judith Sprieser were unavoidably absent from one meeting each.
c Graham Mackay did not attend any meeting after February 2013 and formally retired from the Board due to ill health on 12 June 2013. d Liz Doherty retired from the Board on 12 February 2013 and did not attend the scheduled Board meeting on the same date.
26 RB Annual Report 2013 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Power to instruct advisers and to instigate Leading the annual performance evaluation B: Effectiveness legal proceedings on behalf of the Company of the Board and its Committees.
1: BOARD COMPOSITION in respect of matters for which no further A.
4: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board comprises the Chairman, Adrian Board authority is required.
The Non-Executive Directors are independent Bellamy, seven Non-Executive Directors and two A.
3: THE CHAIRMAN of management and therefore able to provide Executive Directors, Rakesh Kapoor, CEO and The Chairman, who was independent on critical input into Board decisions through their Liz Doherty, CFO until 12 February 2013 and appointment, is responsible for leading the contributions to Board discussions and their Adrian Hennah, CFO from 12 February 2013.
Board and enabling the Directors to operate roles on, and Chairmanship of, Board Information regarding the Directors serving at effectively as one unit to determine the Committees.
They: the date of this Report is set out on page 20. strategy, risk appetite and governance structure Additional biographical details are available Contribute international and operational necessary to deliver Shareholder value in a from the Companys website.
experience and a knowledge and transparent and responsible manner.
His understanding of global financial issues, the The Board identified Graham Mackay as the SID responsibilities include: sectors in which RB operates and the health until his retirement in June 2013 when Andr Chairing and ensuring that Board meetings and safety, environmental and community Lacroix succeeded Graham as SID.
The Board provide a forum that encourages open challenges it faces: has determined that the majority of Nondebate and effective contributions from Executive Directors excluding the Chairman Monitor management performance against individual Directors with sufficient time are independent as recommended by the Code.
strategy and provide reasoned input and allocated to key issues: The Board deemed Judith Sprieser and Kenneth constructive challenge to ensure objectives Hydon as independent notwithstanding that Developing an effective working relationship are met: and they have served over ten years.
The Chairman, with the CEO whilst recognising the need Assess and monitor the integrity of financial Adrian Bellamy, was independent on to maintain the balance between critical information and the systems of risk appointment.
Peter Harf, the Deputy Chairman, friendship and executive responsibility: management and internal control.
is not independent by virtue of being a Finalising the Board meeting agenda  Director.
The The Chairman holds a session with other developed by the CEO and the Company Shareholder Agreement between the Company Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion Secretary: and JAB Holdings B. V. JAB at the time of the of each formal Board meeting without the merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate Board Sponsoring and promoting governance and Executive Directors present.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% ethical practices: The Senior Independent Director SID of the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB Encouraging dialogue between the provides a sounding board for the Chairman to nominate two Directors or one Director Company and its Shareholders and other and is available to the other Directors and respectively.
JABs current holding is slightly stakeholders and facilitating the Boards Shareholders who have concerns that cannot in excess of 10%.
The Company announced understanding of Shareholders and other be addressed through the Chairman, CEO in December 2013 that Richard Cousins, stakeholders concerns: or CFO.
Non-Executive Director, will not offer himself for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Overseeing the induction, information and support provisions for Directors: and Report of the Nomination Committee B.
2: NOMINATION COMMITTEE AND Together with the rest of the Board, the and delegated authority to the Chairman to BOARD APPOINTMENTS appointment of Nicandro Durante as an finalise terms and dates.
Nomination Committee additional Non-Executive Director on The Board reviews the medium and long-term Until November 2013, the Nomination 1 December 2013. succession plans for the Executive Directors Committee comprised the Chairman, who also Board Appointments annually.
All Non-Executive Directors are kept chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Deputy The process leading up to the appointment involved in the recruitment process for both Chairman, the SID and the Chairs of both of Nicandro Durante commenced with the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
appointment of Egon Zehnder Limited Egon Following its meeting in November 2013, Diversity and Business Success Zehnder who worked with the Chairman and the Board agreed that the composition of the The Board is confident that diversity contributes the Board to put together a profile based on Nomination Committee would be increased to the success of any business.
It enables the the Boards consensus of the key attributes to include all Non-Executive Directors plus the business to better understand its opportunities required.
In addition, the outcomes from the CEO.
The Board has delegated authority to the and risks and to develop robust solutions to interviews undertaken as part of the externally Committee through its terms of reference, a them.
The Board believes and acts on the facilitated Board performance evaluation fed copy of which is available on the Companys basis that: into this process to ensure that there was good website.
The primary focus of the Committee alignment from the Board on the profile for Diversity is much broader than gender and is to make recommendations on: candidates.
The Board received the CVs of should also not be a Board only issue.
It The composition and performance of the approximately ten potential candidates who incorporates diversity of race, thought, Board and its Committees: had been short listed following an initial review experience, skills, understanding, perspective by the Chairman and members of the and age and also requires implementation Appointments and re-elections to the Board Nomination Committee.
Following feedback at all management levels: and its Committees: and and recommendations from individual Board Successful companies sell their goods and Succession plans for the Chairman and other members, the Chairman met with the services to customers regardless of gender, Directors.
The Deputy race, ethnic group or religion and a diverse Chairman, the CEO, the SID and the Group The principal activities of the Nomination workforce should reflect its customers.
General Counsel also met with Nicandro who Committee during the year were: A diverse management is more in touch indicated a willingness to accept an offer with its customers demands, investors Consideration of the current and future following his own due diligence process.
The expectations and employees concerns and composition of the Board: and Board approved the appointment of Nicandro provides a forum for these different RB Annual Report 2013 27 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Report of the Nomination Committee continued perspectives to come together in devising female and international candidates were put Directors Conflicts of Interest successful business strategies: and forward for consideration and the Committee, The Nomination Committee is responsible for together with the full Board, considered and the Companys procedures for dealing with Diversity is a matter of organisational culture discussed the CVs of potential candidates at Directors conflicts of interest and these largely set by example from the top.
The Chairman and procedures have operated effectively during that actively considers diversity is better able the Committee are continuing the search to the year.
A register of Directors conflicts is to support diversity efforts in the rest of the refresh the composition of the Board with maintained by the Company Secretary and organisation and is equipped to identify the high-calibre candidates who will complement reviewed by the Board at least annually.
the Groups strengths and contribute to its Board is aware of the other commitments As part of the recruitment drive, Egon Zehnder diversity and business success.
of its Directors and any changes to these was given a specific remit to ensure that more commitments are reported to the Board.
3: COMMITMENT The Chairman has overall responsibility B.
6: EVALUATION All new Non-Executive Directors confirm in for ensuring that the Directors receive the Performance Evaluation writing that they are able to allocate sufficient information and training required for their The Board maintains an ongoing review of its time to meet the expectations of the role.
Directors are encouraged to take procedures and its effectiveness and those of Board has adopted a letter of appointment that individual responsibility for identifying their its Committees throughout the year.
From 2009 contains the terms on which Non-Executive needs and are expected to take the necessary to 2012, it carried out a formal and rigorous Directors will be appointed including: steps to ensure that they are adequately internal evaluation of its Committees and of informed about RB and their responsibilities individual Directors with a view to improving Confirmation that the appointment is a as Directors.
The Board is confident that all the effectiveness of the Board and its contract for services and details of any its members have the knowledge, ability and Committees and RBs overall performance.
Committee appointments: experience to perform the functions required The evaluation of the Boards performance Confirmation of the initial appointment term of a director of a listed company.
during 2013 was undertaken with support of three years terminable on one months from an external facilitator.
The Company was subject to an FSA now FCA written notice and the expectation that the enquiry during 2012 which is still ongoing as at 2013 Evaluation: Egon Zehnder was retained appointment will usually last for more than the date of this Annual Report.
This related to to facilitate the 2013 Board performance one term: and an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules and evaluation.
Its remit included a focus on Board The requirement to seek the agreement of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules relating performance measured primarily by the growth the Chairman before accepting additional to a pledge now redeemed over shares held of Shareholder value with due cognisance given commitments including other directorships by the CEO acquired when he was an to the Boards focus on the business and its and the requirement to disclose any actual Executive Committee member prior to his strategy.
Particular attention was also given or potential conflicts of interest.
appointment as CEO and a disposal of to personnel issues and the special and critical Company shares by a person discharging culture of the Company.
Egon Zehnder received The terms of reference of the Nomination managerial responsibilities without the details of the 2011 and 2012 Board Committee give the Committee responsibility appropriate disclosures being made.
performance evaluations and presented at the for ensuring that Executive Directors do not July and November Board meetings.
take on more than one non-executive B.
5: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the All members of the Board receive timely reports Egon Zehnder met with individual Directors chairmanship of such company.
on items arising at meetings of the Board to using a pre-circulated two-page discussion enable due consideration of the items in guide which enabled them to reflect and The externally facilitated evaluation of the advance of meetings.
Directors unable to gather their thoughts ahead of the meeting.
Boards performance undertaken in 2013 attend a particular meeting during the year had They also met with the Company Secretary and concluded that the Chairman and other the opportunity to review and raise any issues the Group General Counsel who attend all Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient on the relevant briefing papers.
time to the Companys business.
also have access to a dedicated online team The individual discussion covered the strategic B.
4: DEVELOPMENT room containing relevant Company information alignment and the impact of the Companys Induction and Training including all Board and Committee papers.
re-stated vision on Board composition and All new Directors are provided with a flexible Each Director has access to the advice and future structure.
Other areas in scope included induction programme tailored to accommodate services of the Company Secretary and a Board meetings and dynamics, reporting to individual areas of interest.
The induction procedure exists for Directors to take Shareholders, governance and Board processes, covers the provision of core Company-related independent professional advice at the business performance, information flows, risk internal and external documents, meetings with Companys expense in furtherance of and people related issues.
Two areas of specific Directors and key senior executives and visits to their duties.
focus, used as case studies of the Boards various offices and factories as appropriate.
decision-making, were the re-focus of the Company Secretary The Board holds at least one meeting each year strategic direction of the Company into health, The Company Secretary ensures that the at one of the Companys operating units.
The hygiene and home and the acquisitions Company complies with all applicable rules, 2012 meeting was held in Brazil and the 2013 undertaken during 2012 2013.
The key regulations and obligations governing the meeting was held in China.
The Board plans to objective was to ensure that the Board focuses Companys operations and is responsible for visit its operating unit in Salt Lake City, USA on how it adds value to the business and ensuring that the correct Board procedures are during 2014.
The Board receives updates on captures the learning for future decisionfollowed.
She advises the Board on corporate legal, regulatory and governance matters from making.
Key recommendations which the governance matters.
All Directors have access its internal and external advisers.
As part of Board will progress include: to the Company Secretary.
Her appointment its investor relations programme, the Board and removal are matters reserved to the Board.
Board composition: the Board should received a detailed presentation on and review continue to seek to bolster its numbers of the Companys investor relations activities at with up to three additional Non-Executive its November meeting.
Directors: 28 RB Annual Report 2013 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Chairman succession: the Nomination ensure that Board information was succinct The Board is satisfied that the financial Committee should commence the planning and essential.
statements, report to regulators and priceprocess to identify a successor for the sensitive reports present a fair, balanced and Offsite Board meeting: the objective was Chairmans role: understandable assessment of RBs position to help the Board make the most of the and prospects.
Interaction with Executive Directors: the meeting and use it as an opportunity to meet Executive Directors were encouraged to share Top400 executives in less formal settings.
To assist with financial reporting and the their thoughts and plans at an earlier stage The offsite meeting in China during 2013 preparation of consolidated financial to encourage debate: took place over four days, twice the normal statements, the finance function has in place time previously allocated for such meetings.
a series of accounting and treasury policies, Project specific updates: an increase in the This afforded the Board an opportunity to practices and controls which are designed to regularity of updates to the Board on the immerse itself in the China business.
Future ensure the identification and communication projects it oversees was recommended: offsite meetings will follow this more of changes in accounting standards, and Approach on remuneration: the detailed programme.
reconciliation of core financial systems.
The Remuneration Committee was encouraged function consists of consolidation and financial People and succession: the objective to discuss the impact of policy and regulatory accounting teams, and technical support which was to deliver an increased exposure of the issues with the Board to promote Board comprises senior finance managers who review Top400 to the Non-Executive Directors.
In alignment on relevant issues: and external technical developments and addition to meeting the managers of the accounting policy issues.
In addition, the Review of decisions: noting that it operated Chinese business, the Board received finance function maintains an up-to-date good post-acquisition reviews, the Board presentations from the other members of Group Finance Policy Manual and sets formal was encouraged also to review other key the Executive Committee, Top40 and Top400 requirements with operating unit finance decisions on a regular basis.
functions which specify the standard reports Egon Zehnder also provides consultancy These outcomes and actions fed into the and approvals required by RB.
services to the Boards recruitment activities.
externally facilitated evaluation carried out in Throughout the year RB has had in place an The Board recognised the benefit of using 2013 and will continue to aid benchmarking ongoing process for evaluating the financial Egon Zehnder for its performance evaluation and the measurement of progress in the reporting process and the preparation of on the basis that this would provide a better coming years.
The basis for the understanding of the Board and its dynamics The 2013 evaluations of the Board Committees preparation of consolidated accounts is as set which would feed into the candidate were undertaken with the use of detailed out on page 54 under Accounting Policies.
internally generated questionnaires which The Board agrees an engagement letter with Progress Update on Items from the 2012 included a section for additional comments.
the Auditors in respect of the full and half-year Evaluation: The 2012 evaluation was The scores and additional comments were results and the Auditors statement on their undertaken internally in a detailed and rigorous collated for subsequent discussions.
work and reporting responsibilities is set out manner which started with an email from the The evaluation of the Chairmans performance on pages 47 to 49.
Company Secretary to all Directors inviting their was undertaken by the SID with input from his comments on the effectiveness of the Board Information on RBs business model and fellow Non-Executive Directors, the CEO and the responses from which were used to develop strategy for generating and preserving the CFO.
The Chairman evaluates each a framework for the debate at the evaluation longer-term growth and delivering on the Directors performance through one-to-one meeting.
Key actions from the 2012 Board Companys stated objectives is set out in the discussions with other Directors.
The performance evaluation and progress made Strategic Report on pages 9 to 11.
Remuneration Committee also reviews the since then include: performance of the Executive Directors and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Corporate strategy: the objective was to other members of the Executive Committee.
page 33 details the Directors responsibility for ensure that the Non-Executive Directors the financial statements, for disclosing relevant B.
7: DIRECTORS RE-ELECTION received relevant information well in advance audit information to the Auditors and for In accordance with Code recommendations, of meetings to facilitate their understanding ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, all the Directors will submit themselves for of managements key strategic focus.
An extra step re-election election at the 2014 AGM.
Strategic issues are discussed at every involving an additional review of the draft Excluding Richard Cousins who will not stand meeting with management sharing their Annual Report and a teleconference of the for re-election at the 2014 AGM, each Director thoughts earlier and this enabled both Board was added to the approval process so has provided assurance that he or she remains management and the Board to take swift that the full Board, acting together, could committed to his or her role and can dedicate actions on key opportunities.
confirm that the Annual Report was fair, the necessary amount of time to attend to the balanced and understandable.
Investor Relations: the objective was for Companys business.
In addition, the additional clarity on the Companys investor performance evaluation undertaken was The going concern statement required by the relations strategy.
The Board was given a rigorous and transparent to establish that each Listing Rules and the Code is set out in the presentation on the Companys investor Director remains able to undertake his or her Statement of Directors Responsibilities on relations strategy during the year and, in duties.
Consequently, the Board recommends page 33.
November 2013, the Company held a that all Shareholders vote for on each of the C. 2: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL well-received two-day strategy event at resolutions to re-elect elect the Directors at CONTROL which the investor community met all the the 2014 AGM.
The date each Director was The Board has established a risk and control members of the Executive Committee, originally appointed to the Board is included structure designed to manage the achievement gaining an understanding of the depth in the biographical details on page 20. of business objectives.
It has overall and capability of management and the responsibility for RBs system of internal control Companys consumer health and emerging C: Accountability and for the effectiveness of such system.
The system complies with the Turnbull guidance C. 1: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING Advance papers to the Board: the on Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the integrity of improvement in the quality and timing and provides reasonable, but not absolute, RBs consolidated and the Companys financial of papers to the Board was noted.
assurance against material misstatement statements and recognises its responsibility to Management was advised to keep a tight or loss.
present a fair, balanced and understandable rein on the quantity of advance material to assessment of RBs position and prospects.
RB Annual Report 2013 29 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report The Board maintains an ongoing process for and processes are embedded in the Compliance Controls the Group evaluating the system of internal control and responsibilities of line managers: maintains a compliance control programme identifying and managing risk.
Management that includes an independent and Budgeting there is an annual planning is required to apply judgement in evaluating anonymous whistleblower reporting system, process whereby operating budgets for the the material risks RB faces in achieving its systematic reviews by the internal audit following financial year are prepared and objectives, in determining the risks that are function, annual management reviews and reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the personal compliance certification as well as plans are also prepared and reviewed by the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, specialised training in specific areas and Board on an annual basis: in identifying RBs ability to reduce the functions of the business.
Management incidence and impact on the business of risks Management Reporting there is a provides the Board with regular updates on that do materialise and in ensuring that the comprehensive system of management the compliance controls of the Group and costs of operating particular controls are reporting.
The financial performance of considers recommendations for continuous proportionate to the benefit.
operating units and RB as a whole are improvement: and monitored against budget on a monthly RBs control environment is supported by a Monitoring the effectiveness of the basis and are updated by periodic forecasts.
Code of Conduct, on which employees receive system of internal control and risk Area and functional executives also perform training annually, and a range of policies on management is monitored regularly through regular strategic reviews with their corporate responsibility.
Other key elements a combination of management review, management teams, which incorporate an within the internal control structure are self-assessment, independent review through assessment of key risks and opportunities: summarised as follows: quality assurance, environment, health & Risk Management as part of the ongoing safety and regulatory audits, as well as The Board and Management the Board risk and control process, operating units independent internal and external audit.
The approves strategy and performs an advisory review and evaluate risks to the achievement results of internal and external audit reviews and supervisory role, with the day-to-day of business objectives and the Board reviews are reported to and considered by the Audit management of the Company being those significant risks which might impact Committee, and actions are taken to address undertaken by the CEO supported by the on the achievement of corporate objectives.
any significant control matters identified.
The CEO and other Mitigating controls, together with any The Audit Committee also approves annual Executive Committee members have clearly necessary actions, are identified and internal audit plans and is responsible for communicated RBs vision, strategy, implemented.
A summary of the most performing the ongoing review of the system operating model, values and business significant risks faced by RB is included in the of internal control and risk management on objectives across the Group: Strategic Report on pages 17 to 19 and fuller behalf of the Board.
Organisational Structure during the year details of RBs relationships and principal risks The Board confirms that reviews of the ended 31 December 2013, RB operated are set out on pages 93 to 100: appropriateness and effectiveness of the system three area organisations covering ENA, Operating Unit Controls each operating of internal control and risk management LAPAC and RUMEA together with RB unit maintains a system of internal control throughout the financial year and up to the Pharmaceuticals and Food, and centralised and risk management which is appropriate to date of approval of the Annual Report and functions covering category development, its own business environment.
Such controls Accounts have been satisfactorily completed in supply, sales, finance, legal, information must be in accordance with Group policies compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code.
services and human resources, as well as and include management authorisation an independent internal audit function.
The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and processes, to ensure that all commitments Throughout the organisation, the the information is included in the section on on behalf of RB are entered into only after achievement of business objectives and Takeover Directive on pages 21 to 22. appropriate approval.
In particular, there is the establishment of appropriate risk a structured process for the appraisal and management and internal control systems authorisation of all material capital projects: Report of the Audit Committee C. 3: AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS PwCs effectiveness and value for money.
Audit Committee Introduction The Committee is aware of the Competition The Audit Committee comprises three In 2013 changes were made to the UK Commissions and EUs recommendations on Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth Governance Code.
We reviewed our Terms audit tender and rotation and our current Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, Chairman since 16 of Reference and Annual Plan in the light of expectation is that an audit tender process will November 2006, whom the Board has deemed these changes particularly with respect to commence no later than 2019. independent notwithstanding he has served ten Shareholder information being fair, balanced years on the Board, Andr Lacroix, Diploma, Throughout the year the Committee focused and understandable.
The production of the ESCP and Warren Tucker, BSc Economics & on providing reassurance to the Board on the Annual Report is a complex task which is Accounting, MBA, ACA.
Kenneth Hydon was integrity of the Companys financial reporting, completed in a relatively compressed timeframe CFO of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and internal controls framework and risk so we established a robust process for the is Chairman of the Audit Committees of both management processes.
The Committee has review and approval of its contents in Pearson plc and Merlin Entertainments PLC, met with operational business management accordance with the new requirements.
and was in the role at Tesco plc until 2013. including local management when the Board Warren Tucker was CFO of Cobham plc until The Committee recognises that independent visited China.
Therefore, they both have relevant and effective auditors are essential.
The Internal This will be my last report to Shareholders and and recent financial experience.
RBs Auditors, Audit plan is risk based and the Head of I should especially like to thank Andr and Head of Internal Audit and CFO attend Internal Audit has dual reporting lines to the Warren for their personal contributions and meetings and have regular private meetings CFO and me.
In 2013 the routine rotation of dedication to the work of the Committee.
with and direct access to the Committee.
The both of  LLPs PwC Chairman and CEO attended some of the engagement partners took place and the Kenneth Hydon meetings and other senior management attend Committee conducted a thorough review of Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
30 RB Annual Report 2013 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Report of the Audit Committee continued The Audit Committee: The Audit Committee has considered the other brand intangible assets continues to following areas of significant judgement, be appropriate.
Monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of complexity or estimation in relation to the 2013 the system of internal control: Legal liability provisioning Group financial statements: For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Reviews compliance procedures and RBs Acquisition accounting valuation of Group has recognised certain exceptional overall risk framework including the Groups acquired intangible assets legal costs relating to historical regulatory whistleblowing arrangements : In May 2013 the Group obtained regulatory investigations by various government Considers reports on Internal Audits approval for a three-year collaboration authorities totalling 225m.
The level activities, significant legal claims and agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb in of provisioning for these regulatory regulatory issues: certain parts of Latin America.
The investigations is a matter where management Committee reviewed papers prepared by and legal judgement is important.
The Reviews the interim and full year financial management addressing the accounting Committee has discussed with management statements before submission to the treatment applied, and the assumptions the key judgements made, including relevant full Board: adopted in determining the fair value of legal advice received.
Makes recommendations to the Board assets and liabilities acquired including Exceptional items regarding the Auditors and their terms goodwill, the three-year collaboration The Committee has considered the of appointment: agreement intangible asset and the prepaid presentation of the Group financial option.
Based on this review the Committee Reviews and monitors the Auditors statements and, in particular, the is comfortable that accounting for the independence and services supplied and the presentation of exceptional items and transaction as a business combination under objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit the items included within such measures.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations is process: and The Committee has discussed this with appropriate and the assumptions applied management and agrees that the Considers operational risk and control are reasonable.
presentation provides more meaningful processes covering assurance providers, Tax provisioning information to Shareholders about the geographical and functional areas.
The Group from time to time is involved in underlying performance of the Group.
During 2013 the Audit Committee: disputes in relation to ongoing tax matters in The Audit Committee notes that trade spend a number of jurisdictions around the world Met four times: was an area of focus for the Auditors.
It is the where the approach of the authorities is Committees view that whilst trade spend is a Considered detailed risk and control reviews particularly difficult to predict.
Where significant expense for the Group and involves for selected Group major risks covering appropriate, provisions are made based on an element of judgement, management business transformation, regulatory an assessment of each case.
The level of operates an appropriate control environment compliance, data privacy, business continuity provisioning for these tax investigations is an which minimises the risks in this area.
The planning, legal and tax disputes, quality issue where management and tax judgement Auditors risk assessment is made before assurance and bribery: is important.
The Committee has debated consideration of the control environment.
In with management the key judgements Reviewed local country and regional risks and addition, there have been no significant items made, including relevant professional advice control status during the overseas Board visit: or issues which have arisen during the year in that may have been received in each case, relation to trade spend which would need to Reviewed the approach to deliver an upgrade and considers the tax provisioning levels to be brought to the attention of the Audit to the Groups ERP and monitored delivery of be appropriate.
Committee and, as a result, the Committee that programme: In addition, the Audit Committee has does not consider that this is a significant issue Approved updates to the Finance Policy considered a number of other matters in for disclosure in its report.
Manual and the Treasury policies: relation to the 2013 Group financial Auditors and Auditor Independence statements, including: Monitored whistleblowing activities and PwC and its predecessor firms have been the reviewed the policy: Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite sole Auditors of RB since 2000, the year after life intangible assets the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Reviewed and updated the policy for Management performs an annual Benckiser N. V. in 1999, and the Companys non-audit fees to the Auditors and impairment review for goodwill and other Auditors since its formation in 2007.
At the monitored its application: intangible assets with indefinite lives, time of the merger, PwC were the Auditors of Reviewed the Audit Committee terms of including the Groups Powerbrands.
This is Reckitt & Colman plc and Deloitte LLP were the reference and the annual Standing Agenda: important given the significance of these Auditors of Benckiser N. V. Post merger, the items to the Groups Balance Sheet.
Key Audit Committee undertook a review and Reviewed the work and effectiveness of the judgements include estimates of future subsequently selected PwC as auditor for the Internal Audit function: business performance and cash generation, Group for the December 2000 year end.
In the Approved the terms of engagement and discount rates and long-term growth rates opinion of the Audit Committee, the reviewed the strategy, scope and refer to note 9 of the Group Financial relationship with the Auditors works well and effectiveness of the Auditors: Statements for further detail.
The the Committee remains satisfied with their Committee has reviewed managements independence and effectiveness.
It has, Reviewed and discussed with the Auditors analysis, including an assessment of the accordingly, not considered it necessary to the findings of their work during the year: discount rates used, the appropriateness require the firm to tender for the audit work, Received regular technical updates to keep of specific risk factors applied to individual although this is kept under review annually.
abreast of changes in financial reporting and cash generating units and the adequacy It is a requirement that the audit partner governance matters: and of sensitivities applied.
As a result of this responsible for audit is rotated every five years review the Committee is comfortable and the lead audit partner was rotated-off Reviewed the performance of the Audit with managements conclusion that no during 2013.
Our current expectation is that we Committee itself and agreed actions for impairment is required and that the indefinite will commence preparations for a competitive dealing with the workload.
life of the Groups Powerbrands and various tender no later than 2019.
There are no RB Annual Report 2013 31 Governance & Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Report of the Audit Committee continued contractual obligations restricting the The Companys published policy on non-audit The Auditors report to the Audit Committee Companys choice of Auditors.
fees states that, on an annual basis, non-audit on the actions they take to comply with fees should not normally be in excess of 50% professional and regulatory requirements and RB has a formal policy in place to safeguard of the Groups external audit and audit related with best practice designed to ensure their Auditor independence.
The Audit Committee fees on an aggregate basis.
The Board confirms independence from RB, including periodic and the CFO keep the independence and that, for the year ended 31 December 2013, rotation of the audit engagement partners.
objectivity of the Auditors under review.
The non-audit fees were less than 50% of the audit Details of non-audit services are set out in Committee reviews the nature and level of and audit related fees.
note 4 on page 61. non-audit services undertaken by the Auditors during the year to satisfy itself that there is no Following a recommendation by the Audit impact on their independence.
The Board Committee, and in accordance with section recognises that in certain circumstances the 489 of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing nature of the advice required may make it the re-appointment of PwC as the Companys more timely and cost effective to appoint Auditors will be put to the Shareholders at the the Auditors who already have a good AGM.
RB does not indemnify its Auditors.
The third member of the Committee A section dedicated to Shareholders on the D: Remuneration is the Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, who was Companys website.
D. 1: THE LEVEL AND COMPONENTS independent on appointment.
Over two days in November 2013, the OF REMUNERATION Detailed information on the Committee Company held an investor event with the twin The Companys compensation plan is and its activities is set out in the Directors objectives of: performance-driven and designed to foster Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46.
RBs innovative and entrepreneurial culture.
Demonstrating the significant talent within Following the 1999 merger of Reckitt & RBs management team outside the CEO and Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. the Board set E: Relations with Shareholders CFO: and out to create a truly multinational Company E. 1: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Updating investors on the Companys value and, as a result of this approach, people of The Board is committed to effective creation model and its ability to outperform many nationalities work with local citizens communications between the Company and its with particular focus on health and hygiene, in each location in which RB operates.
The Executive Directors and the Powermarkets and emerging markets.
The level and components of remuneration Director of Investor Relations meet regularly The Chairman is available to discuss governance across RB is designed to facilitate global with institutional Shareholders and financial and strategy with major Shareholders should mobility and diversity.
A similar employment analysts to discuss matters relating to the such a dialogue be requested.
During the year contract is used and compensation rules Companys business strategy and current the Chairman liaised with Shareholders and apply equally for RBs Top400 managers performance.
The Board receives regular reported on these meetings to the Directors.
Salary ranges are based on monthly reports from the CEO which include The Company believes that it is important to global benchmarking and RBs annual cash updates on share price developments, major make key executives available, along with the bonus structure, long-term incentives and buyers and sellers of shares, investors views SID, if required, to discuss matters of concern other benefits are offered across and analysts reports on the industry and with its Shareholders.
Feedback on presentations and roadshow meetings E. 2: THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Details on the Companys remuneration with institutional investors is presented to The AGM provides all Shareholders with an strategy and the Directors compensation the Directors.
The investor relations opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to arrangements are set out in the Directors programme includes: them.
The AGM is used as the main opportunity Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 46. for the Directors to meet directly with private Formal presentations of full year and half D. 2: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND investors.
It is attended by the Directors and all year results and quarterly interim PROCEDURE Shareholders present are given the opportunity management statements: The Remuneration Committee chaired by Judith to ask questions of the Chairman, the Chairs of Sprieser comprised four members until June Regular meetings between institutional Board Committees and the Board as a unit.
2013 when it reduced to three following investors and senior management to ensure All resolutions are voted on by way of poll so Graham Mackays retirement from the Board that the investor community receives a that each share has one vote.
The results of the due to ill health.
As at August 2013, Judith balanced and complete view of RBs poll are released to the Stock Exchange and Sprieser had served ten years on the Board.
performance, the issues faced by RB and published on the website shortly after the AGM.
Nonetheless, pursuant to Code provision B.
1.1, any issues of concern to the investors: the Board has determined that, in its opinion, Response to enquiries from institutional Judith Sprieser remains independent.
Richard Shareholders through the Companys investor Cousins is considered independent under the relations team and from retail Shareholders through the Company Secretary: and 32 RB Annual Report 2013
