Governance & Remuneration Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code Code of the Board give our full attention.
We remain together with the terms of reference for the issued by the Financial Reporting Council mindful of the recommendations of the Code Board Committees, were reviewed and updated FRC in September 2012 was applicable to on length of service and diversity and it is our so that they continue to reflect the spirit and the Company throughout the financial year aim to comply with these recommendations emphasis of the Code, remain fit for purpose ended 31 December 2013. without compromising the culture that drives and relevant to how RB operates.
the success of our business.
Unfortunately, our The FRC confirmed that the recent changes Board Evaluation Senior Independent Director, Graham Mackay, to the Code together with changes to the UK The Code recommends that FTSE 350 had to retire from the Board in June 2013 for Stewardship Code are intended to increase companies should undertake an external health reasons and sadly passed away on director accountability and encourage greater evaluation at least once every three years.
Graham brought stakeholder engagement, whilst promoting the The 2009 to 2012 Board evaluations were all exceptional talents to the Boards activities and interest of Shareholders.
Through the reports undertaken internally.
The recent evaluation for he will be missed.
The Board, on behalf of the on the work of the Board and its committees, the year ended 2013 was externally facilitated Company and its Shareholders, is grateful for the changes provide investors with greater by Egon Zehnder Limited.
The summary Grahams significant contributions over the insight into the activities of listed companies.
outcome applauded the Companys focus on past eight years and sends condolences and The Board takes seriously its responsibility for Shareholder value and the quality of the Boards best wishes to his family.
We have sought to effective corporate governance and delivery of decision making.
It recognised the Boards strengthen the Board with the appointment of long-term Shareholder and stakeholder reward efficiency and focus but noted certain Nicandro Durante, who brings experience of a and its decisions are taken in light of these improvement opportunities on governance highly regulated and innovation-led industry, considerations.
I am pleased to report to you and Board succession matters.
The alongside extensive emerging markets directly on RBs governance activities.
recommendations to move the Boards experience, having worked in Asia, Africa and performance from good to great are further RB and Governance Latin America.
He adds further international discussed in the performance evaluation section The Board believes that implementing and diversity to the Board.
We continue to seek to on page 28 of this Report.
maintaining high governance standards recruit additional Non-Executive Directors who underpin our business objectives and our drive will bring a diverse range of skills, experience Succession Planning to create and maximise Shareholder value whilst and perspectives to the Boards activities.
Succession planning to the Board and senior managing the business effectively, responsibly We announced at the end of December 2013 management roles remains one of the key and with integrity, so that we demonstrate that Richard Cousins will not offer himself for areas to which the Board gives due attention.
accountability and maintain the trust of all our re-election at the 2014 AGM and will stand Progress continues to be made in this area and stakeholders.
In addition to compliance with down at the close of business of the 2014 part of that progress is to ensure diversity in the best practice advice from regulatory and AGM after having served as a Non-Executive succession planning and to give members of governance bodies, the Board ensures that Director since October 2009.
RBs senior management more exposure to the high ethical standards are reflected in business Board and externally.
Additional information The Board includes Peter Harf who, as a behaviour and culture through RBs global Code on RBs succession planning activities at senior  Director, was not of Conduct which enables management to add management levels is within Resources on independent on appointment.
Both Peter ethical and behavioural standards to the legal pages 11 to 12 of the Strategic Report.
Our and I have served on the Board since 1999.
In and regulatory obligations existing in the areas disclosure includes the new Companies Act addition, Judith Sprieser and Kenneth Hydon and communities in which we operate.
All 2006 requirement to report specifically on the have now been on the Board for a period employees and contractors are required to gender split for the Board, senior managers and exceeding ten years.
The Board remains keen to complete an annual conduct training course total employee numbers.
ensure compliance with the recommendations which includes the review of the global Code of the Code but recognises that both Kenneth Annual Re-elections of Conduct.
Statistics on employee compliance and Judith have been diligent servants of the All the Directors submitted themselves for are subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Company who continue to add value to the re-election at the 2013 AGM and excluding The Company also operates an active activities of the Company as a whole.
To ensure Richard Cousins who is retiring after the AGM, whistleblowing hotline, the reports from which continuity and a successful transition, the Board will submit themselves for re-election at the are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
recommends that Judith and Kenneth be 2014 AGM and at future AGMs in compliance We are constantly seeking to develop our re-appointed to the Board at the 2014 AGM.
practices and governance framework to ensure In recognition of their length of service, both Diversity that transparency and good governance Judith and Kenneth will step down as Chairs The Company operates within a corporate permeate through the Group at all levels.
Our of the Remuneration and Audit Committees diversity and inclusion policy framework professional employees are annually required respectively before the end of the year, upon adopted and reviewed by the Executive to confirm compliance with corporate policies completion of this years exercise to refresh the Committee.
The Davies recommendation for and are encouraged to suggest improvements.
boards to have a minimum of 25% female This ensures we maintain a dynamic process To ensure that the Board is able collectively to representation by 2015 is an aspiration the of enhancement which enables our operating increase its focus on Board composition, the Company considers carefully as part of its businesses and group functions to operate with membership of the Nomination Committee was recruitment exercises.
an appropriate awareness and recognition of increased in November 2013 to include all the their governance and regulatory obligations.
The Board reiterates its view that facilitating Non-Executive Directors and the CEO.
As part and promoting diversity in its broadest sense Composition of the Board of the review of the Boards effectiveness, the has helped propel the Companys success to The current and future composition of the documents setting out the matters reserved for date.
It remains its practice to ensure that the Board remains an issue to which I and the rest the Board and the delegations to the CEO, Companys Top40 executive roles, in particular, 24 RB Annual Report 2013 Governance & Remuneration Chairmans Statement on Corporate Governance are open to fresh thinking and must include Risk Management and Appetite Shareholder value and provide continuity personnel from different global backgrounds The Board monitors the level of risk through and consistency in the development and who bring new ideas to the table.
The the Groups major risk assessment process.
application of the Companys strategic Company values its freedom to retain a We remain committed to building on and objectives, the Board will continue its efforts group of people who, collectively, have the improving our understanding of the key risks to refresh the membership of the Board in skills, experience and insight to implement facing the Group and its business operations the short-term: the Companys global vision and objectives and we constantly refine our appetite and Following the retirement of Graham Mackay and achieve long-term value growth without tolerance of such risks.
from the Board in June 2013, for the period being hindered by a gender quota which Explanation on Areas of Non-compliance from June 2013 until the date of this report, does not take cognisance of the specific with the Code strict interpretation the Remuneration Committee was not situation and culture of the Company.
As The Board recognises that the objective of the composed of a majority of independent at 31 December 2013: Code is to facilitate managements delivery Non-Executive Directors.
For the same 10% 2012: 10% of the Board is female and of business success in a transparent and reason, the Nomination Committee was not 50% 2012: 50% are non-UK nationals: responsible manner.
The Code does not impose composed of a majority of independent a rigid set of rules and recognises that certain Non-Executive Directors from June 2013 until 11% 2012: 11% of the Executive actions and behaviours do not automatically November 2013 when the Board resolved Committee is female and 78% 2012: 78% imply poor organisational governance.
The to change the terms of reference on are non-UK nationals: and Board has authorised an explanation for the membership of the Nomination Committee 14% 2012: 15% of the Top40 managers following areas where a strict interpretation to include all Non-Executive Directors: and are female and 66% 2012: 70% are might lead to a perception of non-compliance Judith Sprieser, in her capacity as Chair non-UK nationals.
with certain areas of the Code: of the Remuneration Committee, was All RB employees understand their personal I, as the Chairman, and Peter Harf, the unfortunately absent from the 2013 AGM responsibility for ensuring that diversity policies Deputy Chairman and a Shareholderheld on 2 May 2013. and programmes are actively pursued, nominated Director, have both served on The Board has instructed me to confirm that, implemented and maintained.
The Company the Board since 1999 and will be offering notwithstanding the foregoing disclosures and does not set specific targets in absolute ourselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM: following the externally facilitated performance percentage terms to deter artificiality in the Kenneth Hydon and Judith Sprieser have evaluation undertaken during 2013, each process: it measures progress year on year to now each been on the Board for over ten Directors independence of thought and actions ensure an improving picture on gender balance years.
The Company continues to benefit was assured and all decisions were taken to which it believes contributes to the Companys from the skills and experience they bring promote the success of RB as a whole.
As at 31 December 2013: to their roles and, with continuity in mind, Statement of Compliance with the Code 42% 2012: 41% of the Groups Judith and Kenneth have agreed to stand The Corporate Governance Report on pages professional population of 7,079 is female: for re-election at the AGM for a further year, 26 to 32 contains a summary of the Companys and before stepping down at the AGM in May governance arrangements and the regulatory 2015 by which time they would have served 17% 2012: 16% of the Groups Top400 assurances required under the Code.
Except as on the Board for 11 years.
Judith and population is female.
explained above, the Company has complied Kenneth will step down as Chairs of their with the Code throughout the year ended Gender balance has improved consistently respective committees by the end of the 31 December 2013. across the professional population.
year, following the outcome of the ongoing refresh of the Boards composition.
14, 49 and 95 2012: 16, 44 and 94 Recognising that it is important that the nationalities are represented in the Top40, Adrian Bellamy Board retains relevant knowledge and Top400 and professional populations Chairman experience to continue its delivery of respectively.
