Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 77 Report of the Nominations Committee This report has been prepared by the joint Nominations Composition of the Boards and Committees Committee of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and has During the year, the main areas of focus for the Committee were: been approved by the respective Boards.
the appointment of a Non-Executive Director: Role of the Committee the appointment of a Senior Independent Director in place of The principal role of the Committee is to provide assistance to the Sir David Reid who retired from the Boards in April 2013: Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier the appointment of a Chairman of the Remuneration Group plc by identifying individuals qualified to become Directors Committee in place of Mark Elliott who retired from the Boards and recommending to the Boards the appointment of such in April 2013: individuals.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in written terms of reference available at www.
com the appointment of a Chief Financial Officer to succeed and include: DuncanPalmer who gave notice of his resignation in September 2013: and i to develop and agree the desired profile for potential candidates for Board membership: progress against Reed Elseviers aspirational goals regarding the percentage of women on its Boards.
ii in consultation with external search consultants, agree the specification for the recruitment of new directors which The Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and their provides a formal and transparent procedure for the Committees comprise an appropriate balance of skills, selection and appointment of new directors to the Boards: experience, independence, knowledge of Reed Elseviers businesses, and diversity, includinggender and in doing so takes iii to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates into account the outcome of Board evaluations.
More information subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders on Board evaluation can be found on page 70. of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV: The Committee has established a formal, rigorous and iv to recommend to the Boards Directors to serve on Board transparent procedure for the recruitment of candidates to the Committees, having regard to the criteria for service on Boards and recommendations by the Committee are made on the eachcommittee as set out in the terms of reference for such basis of a candidates merit, against objective criteria and with due committees, and to recommend members to serve as the regard for the benefits of diversity.
The Committee retained Chair of those committees: and recruitment consultants specialising in senior and non-executive v to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the appointments to carry out searches for a Non-Executive Director election or re-election of Directors at the Annual General and a new Chief Financial Officer.
Spencer Stuart was retained in Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
connection with the search for a Non-Executive Director.
Spencer Stuart is an independent executive search consulting firm with no Committee membership other connection to Reed Elsevier.
The Committee worked closely The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors, and is with the consultants and following a rigorous process of chaired by Anthony Habgood.
The other members are Lisa Hook interviews and assessments, recommended to the Boards the and Ben van der Veer.
The Committee met five times during appointment of Wolfhart Hauser as a Non-Executive Director the year.
and Nick Luff as Chief Financial Officer.
The Boards approved these recommendations.
In light of the retirement of Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid, the Committee undertook a review of the roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors.
Following the review, the Committee recommended to the Boards the appointment of Lisa Hook as the Senior Independent Director and Wolfhart Hauser as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In response to the publication of the Davies Review, Women on Boards in 2011, the Boards announced their aspirational goals that by 2013 the Reed Elsevier NV Board would be comprised of 30% women and the Reed Elsevier PLC Board would be comprised of 22% women.
Following the Annual General Meetings held in April 2013, the Boards met these goals.
The Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Boards against their aspirational goals while taking into account the benefits of diversity more generally.
Details of Reed Elseviers approach to diversity and inclusion in its workforce can be found in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 46.
