Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 75 Each division has identified and evaluated its major risks, the Internal control controls in place to manage those risks and the levels of residual Parent companies risk accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise embedded into the operations of the business and include the independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of monitoring of progress in areas for improvement that come to internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed management and board attention.
The principal risks facing Finance BV.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier are set out on pages 60 to 62.
NV have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required to The major risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses are be brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group regularly reported to and considered by the Board and Audit plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC Committee.
With the close involvement of business management and Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual and the central functions, the risk management and control budgets, and receive regular reports on the operations, including procedures ensure that Reed Elsevier is managing its business the treasury and risk management activities of the two risks effectively and in a coordinated manner across the business companies.
Major transactions proposed by the Boards of Reed with clarity on the respective responsibilities and Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV require the interdependencies.
Litigation and other legal regulatory matters approval of the Boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed are managed by legal directors in Europe and the US.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives regular The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees reports on the identification and management of material risks meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control and reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier regular reports from both internal and external auditors on Reed Finance BV.
internal control and risk management matters.
In addition, each division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the Operating companies effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and The Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the system report its findings on a detailed basis to the management of of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and information Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, as businesses, while the Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are part of the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit responsible for the system of internal control in respect of the Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Chairman of the Audit finance group activities.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc Committee reports to the Board on any significant internal control and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also responsible for reviewing matters arising.
the effectiveness of their systems of internal control.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance Elsevier Reed Finance BV BV have each implemented an ongoing process for identifying, Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, which evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks are applied to all Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
The faced by their respective businesses.
These processes have been respective Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and up to schedules of matters that are required to be brought to them for the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and Financial decision.
Procedures are in place for monitoring the activities of Statements 2013. the finance group, including a comprehensive treasury reporting system.
The major risks affecting the finance group have been Reed Elsevier Group plc identified and evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of controls in place to manage these risks and the level of residual procedures and internal controls, with which the management of risk accepted are monitored by the Boards.
each business is required to comply.
Group businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control which are Annual review appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities and address As part of the year-end procedures, the Audit Committees and all significant operational and financial risks that they face.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has adopted a schedule of Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the effectiveness matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
of the systems of internal control and risk management during the last financial year.
The objective of these systems is to manage, Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics and Business rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and objectives.
Accordingly, they can only provide reasonable, but not requires officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The ethical and principled manner.
The Code also outlines confidential Boards have confirmed, subject to the above, that as regards procedures enabling employees to report any concerns about financial reporting risks, the respective risk management and compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial reporting control systems provide reasonable assurance against material practice.
The Code is published on the Reed Elsevier website, inaccuracies or loss and have functioned properly during the year.
