Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 69 Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure ordinary share pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax REED ELSEVIER PLC REED ELSEVIER NV law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
The exchange rate used for each dividend calculation is the spot euro sterling exchange rate, averaged over a period of five consecutive businessdays commencing on the tenth business day before REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC Publishing and Information Businesses theannouncement of the proposed dividend.
ELSEVIER REED FINANCE BV Corporate governance Financing Activities Compliance with codes of best practice The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have Reed Elsevier was created in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their respective policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges of businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier Group the UK, the Netherlands and the US.
The effect of this is that a plc, a UK-registered company which owns the publishing and standard applying to one will, where not in conflict, also be information businesses, and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a observed by the other.
Dutch-registered company which owns the financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV support separate legal and national identities and are publicly-held the principles and provisions of corporate governance contained companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Reporting Council in September 2012 the UK Code and those Amsterdam and New York.
Following the merger of their contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in respective businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV December 2008 the Dutch Code.
entered into a Governing Agreement to regulate their relationship, This report and the compliance statement set out below are made including the economic interests of the parties and the in relation to the UK Code.
The principles and provisions set out in composition of their Boards and those of Reed Elsevier Group plc the UK Code and the Dutch Code have applied throughout the and of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has Equalisation arrangements complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% interest which has its primary listing on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a 39% Stock Exchange, has also complied throughout the year with the interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV UK Code, and subject to limited exceptions, as explained in the holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a Reed Elsevier NV Report of the Board on pages 179 and 180, has 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting the applied the best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The ways in arrangements entered into between the two companies at the which Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have applied the time of the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio main principles of the UK Code are described below.
For further whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, information on the application of the Dutch Code by Reed Elsevier intended to confer equivalent economic interests to 1.538 Reed NV, see the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
The equalisation ratio is subject to published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
change to reflect share splits and similar events that affect the number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier Business model PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
As required by Provision C. 1.2 of the UK Code, pages 2 to 39 Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC describe the business and the progress made in 2013 against Reed shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier Elseviers long-term business priorities, aimed at delivering combined businesses, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other better outcomes for our customers and creating value for Reed than Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in the Elsevier and shareholders.
Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
The Boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax credit based on the equalisation ratio.
