Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 95 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of Financial reporting Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the In discharging their responsibilities in respect of the 2013 interim Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc the Committees and financial statements, the Committees have: and has been approved by the respective Boards.
It provides an reviewed and discussed areas of significant judgement in the overview of the membership, responsibilities and activities of preparation of the financial statements, including in particular: the Committees.
The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory i. the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets the Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and judgements in respect of asset carrying values relate to the Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the assumptions underlying the value in use calculations perspective of the parent companies and both Committees including discount rates and long-term growth have access to the reports to and the work of the Reed Elsevier assumptions.
The Committees received and discussed a Group plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Reed Finance BV report from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial Supervisory Board in this respect.
controller on the methodology and the basis of the assumptions used.
capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets the The Committees comprise at least three independent capitalisation of costs related to the development of new Non-Executive Directors.
The members of each of the products and business infrastructure, together with the Committees that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer useful economic lives applied to the resulting assets, Chairman of the Committees, Sir David Reid until April 2013, requires the exercise of judgement.
The Committees Adrian Hennah and Linda Sanford.
Adrian Hennah, a UK chartered received reports from the Reed Elsevier Group plc financial accountant, and Ben van der Veer, a registered accountant in the controller on the amounts capitalised and asset lives Netherlands, are considered to have significant, recent and selected for major projects.
uncertain tax positions assessing potential liabilities Responsibilities across numerous jurisdictions is complex and requires The main role and responsibilities of the Committees are to assist judgement in making tax determinations.
The Committees the respective Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier regarding: Group plc head of group taxation on the potential liabilities identified and estimates applied.
the integrity of Reed Elseviers interim and financial statements and reporting process: The Committees also received detailed written and verbal reports from the external auditors on these matters.
The risk management and internal controls, and the effectiveness Committees were satisfied with the explanations provided and of the internal auditors: and conclusions reached.
the effectiveness, performance and qualifications of the reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance with external auditors, including monitoring their independence applicable accounting standards and other disclosure and objectivity.
requirements and received regular update reports on The Committees report to the respective Boards on their accounting and regulatory developments.
activities, identifying any matters in respect of which they consider considered whether the annual report taken as a whole was that action or improvement is needed and making fair, balanced and understandable.
recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed Risk management and internal controls annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed Elsevier With respect to their oversight of risk management and internal website, www.
controls, the Committees have: received and discussed regular reports summarising the Committee meetings status of Reed Elsevier risk management activities and the The Committees met five times during 2013.
The Audit Committee findings from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed meetings are typically attended by the Chief Executive Officer, the with management.
Areas of focus in 2013 included: Chief Financial Officer, the Reed Elsevier Group plc group financial management of investment programmes: regulatory controller, the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer and compliance and review of information security including the director of internal audit, and audit partners from the external management of data privacy: business continuity planning: and auditors.
Additionally, in 2013, senior representatives of the continued compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attended the July the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the documentation and and February meetings of the parent company Audit Committees.
testing of internal controls over financial reporting.
reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2013 and monitored execution, including progress in respect of recommendations made.
reviewed the resources, terms of reference and effectiveness of the Reed Elsevier Group plc risk management and internal audit functions.
indd 95 07 03 2014 11:21 GOVERNANCE 96 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES received presentations from: the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV or their predecessor compliance officer on the compliance programmes, including firms were first appointed auditors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed the operation of Reed Elseviers codes of conduct, training Elsevier NV respectively for the financial year ended 31 December programmes and whistleblowing arrangements: the Reed 1994.
The auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partners Elsevier Inc. general counsel on the management of data responsible for the audit engagements every five years.
The lead privacy, security and compliance: the Reed Elsevier Group plc engagement partner for Reed Elsevier PLC has now completed his IT security officer on information technology security: and fifth year and is required to rotate off the audit.
The lead engagement the Reed Elsevier Group plc chief legal officer on legal issues partner for Reed Elsevier NV has completed four years.
The Committees conducted their annual review of the received updates from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of treasurer on pension arrangements and funding, treasury the external audit process for the year ended 31 December 2013. policies and risk management, compliance with treasury The review was based on a survey of key stakeholders across policies, and global insurance arrangements.
Reed Elsevier, consideration of public reports by regulatory authorities on key Deloitte member firms and the quality of the received presentations from the Reed Elsevier Group plc head auditors reporting to and interaction with the Audit Committees.
of group taxation on tax policies and related matters.
Based on this review, the Audit Committees were satisfied with received regular updates from the Chief Financial Officer on the performance of the auditors and the effectiveness of the developments within the finance function.
received presentations on a rotational basis from the chief Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the financial officers of major businesses on the priorities for the recommendation of the Audit Committees.
The Committees have finance functions and the risk management and internal monitored regulatory developments in the UK and the Netherlands control activities.
regarding length of audit tenure, tendering and audit firm rotation.
In light of the transition of the Reed Elsevier Chief Financial Officer External audit effectiveness and the continued objectivity, independence and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP and Deloitte Accountants BV, the Audit Committees Reed Elsevier has a well-established policy on audit effectiveness have concluded that it will neither be appropriate nor necessary to and independence of auditors that sets out inter alia: the change auditors or hold a tender during 2014. responsibilities of each Audit Committee in the selection of auditors to be proposed for appointment or re-appointment and The Committees have, therefore, recommended to the respective for agreement on the terms of their engagement, scope and Boards that resolutions for the re-appointment of the external remuneration: the auditor independence requirements and the auditors be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
policy on the provision of non-audit services: the rotation of audit An audit tender will, however, be undertaken in due course in partners and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the line with the transitional arrangements applicable in the UK auditors and the Audit Committees.
The policy is available on the and the Netherlands: the timing of this will be discussed by Reed Elsevier website, www.
Under current legislation in the The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit Netherlands, Deloitte would not be eligible to participate in any services that would compromise their independence or violate such tender.
anyprofessional requirements or regulations affecting their The effectiveness of the operation of the Audit Committees was appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide reviewed as part of the effectiveness review of the Boards in non-audit services which do not conflict with their independence, February 2014. and where their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Audit Committees.
The Ben van der Veer Committees have, each quarter, reviewed and agreed the Chairman of the Audit Committees non-audit services provided in 2013, together with the associated 26 February 2014 fees which are set out in note 3 to the combined financial statements.
The non-audit services provided were in the areas of audit-related activities such as royalty assurance, tax advice and compliance, due diligence and other transaction-related services.
Non-audit services performed in the Netherlands are limited to audit-related activities.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence to the Audit Committees.
