Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 73 Board Committees In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the following Committees have been established by the respective Boards.
All of the Committees have written terms of reference, which are published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Membership of each Committee and attendance during the year are set out below.
Audit Committees The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
The Committees comprise only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees are chaired by Ben van der Veer.
A report of the Audit Committees, setting out their role and main activities during the year, appears on pages 95 and 96.
Number of Date of meetings appointment held while a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Ben van der Veer Committee Chairman 5 5 Adrian Hennah 5 3 Sir David Reid April 2013 2 2 Linda Sanford 5 5 The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Remuneration Committee The Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for considering the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee comprises only Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Wolfhart Hauser who succeeded Mark Elliott as Chairman in April 2013.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 78 to 94.
This report serves as disclosure of the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Remuneration Report which contains the remuneration of the Directors and their interests in the shares of the two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Number of Date of meetings appointment held while a Number of cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Wolfhart Hauser Committee Chairman April 2013 3 3 Mark Elliott April 2013 2 1 Anthony Habgood 5 5 Lisa Hook 5 5 Robert Polet 5 5 Sir David Reid April 2013 2 1 29275 SAS p063-077.
