GOVERNANCE 70 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders In addition to scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular held during the year, the Directors attend other meetings and site dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Where a Director is unable to attend a Board or Board Reed Elsevier combined businesses are made by the Chairman, Committee meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following the and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss announcement of the interim and full-year results and these are issues arising with the respective chairman and other Board and simultaneously webcast.
A conference call with investors was Committee members.
also held following the third quarter Interim Management Statement.
In addition, two investor presentations focusing on the Board evaluation LexisNexis Risk Solutions insurance business and Reed Travel During the year, the Corporate Governance Committee, supported Exhibitions were held during the year.
These presentations which by the company secretaries, assessed the performance of described the market background, business activities and growth individual Directors and, led by the Senior Independent Director, plans for the businesses were also made available on the Reed also assessed the performance of the Chairman.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial questionnaires completed by all of the Directors, the Committee Officer and the investor relations team meet institutional reviewed the functioning and constitution of the Boards and their shareholders on a regular basis and the Chairman also makes Committees, including the balance of skills, experience, himself available to major institutions as appropriate.
A trading independence, knowledge of Reed Elsevier, and diversity, including update is provided ahead of the Annual General Meetings of the gender.
The Chairman conducted interviews with each member of two companies and towards the end of the financial year through the Boards to discuss individually Board effectiveness.
The results Interim Management Statements.
The interim and annual results were subsequently considered in a meeting of the Boards.
The announcements and presentations, together with the Interim Chairman of the Boards was not present during a discussion by the Management Statements, investor seminar presentations, other Non-Executive Directors as it related to him.
Based on these important announcements and corporate governance documents assessments, and the board effectiveness review, the Committee concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on the Reed Elsevier believes that the performance of each Director continues to be website, www.
In accordance with the effective and that they demonstrate commitment to their provisions of the Dutch Code, Reed Elsevier NV has adopted a respective roles.
The Committee also believes that the Boards and bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also published on their Committees function effectively and collaboratively and with the Reed Elsevier website.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and an appropriate level of engagement with management, and that Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes the diverse membership provides a broad range of skills and and views of the companies institutional shareholders and the perspectives.
The effectiveness review confirmed that adequate results are presented to the respective Boards.
steps had been taken in response to the prior years recommendations to ensure that the Boards appropriately Both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV offer electronic reviewed risk-related matters alongside strategic, financial and voting facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
The review suggests that the Boards continue The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the to monitor the level of detail provided to and balance of focus by the Boards to communicate with individual shareholders.
The Boards between financial data and strategic matters.
The outcome Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, of the last  evaluation process was reported the chairmen of the Board Committees, other Directors and a in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
representative of the external auditors are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Boards Board induction and information The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Following appointment and as required, Directors receive training Elsevier Group plc are harmonised.
All of the Directors of Reed appropriate to their level of experience and knowledge.
This Elsevier Group plc are also Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and includes the provision of a tailored induction programme so as to Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier NV may nominate for appointment provide newly appointed Directors with information about the to the Board up to two Non-Executive Directors who are not Reed Elsevier businesses and other relevant information to assist appointed to the Boards of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed them in performing their duties.
Non-Executive Directors are Elsevier Group plc.
Currently, one such Director, Marike van Lier encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet Lels, has been appointed to the Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
The management and senior staff.
names, nationalities and biographical details of each Director at All Directors have full and timely access to the information the date of this report appear on pages 64 and 65. required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
Following the enactment on 1 January 2013 of legislation to They have access to the services of the respective company formalise the unitary board governance structure in the secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers management and Netherlands Civil Code, the then Combined Board of Reed Elsevier staff, and external advisors.
Directors may take independent NV resolved to take the necessary steps to establish such a board professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the governance structure.
Amendments to the articles of association relevant companys expense.
of Reed Elsevier NV were approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of Reed Elsevier NV in April 2013 and the unitary Board structure was implemented in May 2013.
indd 70 07 03 2014 13:04 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 71 There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Boards and Board changes approved delegated authorities to the Chief Executive Officer and Changes during the year in the composition of the Boards of Reed other senior executives.
There is a clear separation of the roles Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc are ofthe Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are set out set out in the table on page 72. in writing.
Mark Elliott and Sir David Reid retired from the Boards of Reed The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC following the conclusion of the Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance Annual General Meetings in April 2013.
Wolfhart Hauser was of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who bring a wide range elected to the Boards in April 2013 and succeeded Mark Elliott as of skills and experience to the deliberations of the Boards.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Lisa Hook succeeded Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV review the Sir David Reid as the Senior Independent Director in April 2013. independence of the Non-Executive Directors every year, based on In accordance with the UK Code, all Directors will retire from the the criteria for independence set out in the UK Code.
The UK Code Boards of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC at the does not consider the Chairman to be independent due to the respective Annual General Meetings and, being eligible, they will unique role he has in corporate governance.
Notwithstanding this, offer themselves for re-election.
Based on the assessments made Anthony Habgood met the independence criteria contained in the by the Corporate Governance Committee of the qualifications, UK Code when he was appointed Chairman in 2009.
The Boards performance and effectiveness of each individual seeking consider all Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman to re-election, the Boards have accepted a recommendation from be independent of management and free from any business or the Nominations Committee that each of these Directors be other relationship which could materially interfere with their proposed for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of ability to exercise independent judgement.
The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have In September 2013, Duncan Palmer gave notice of his resignation appointed Lisa Hook to act as Senior Independent Director, who is as Chief Financial Officer effective as of 25 September 2014, or available to meet with institutional shareholders and assist in such other earlier date as Reed Elsevier may designate.
resolving concerns in cases where alternative channels are deemed inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director also The Nominations Committee retained an external search leads the annual assessment of the performance of the Chairman consultancy to conduct a rigorous search process in conjunction of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
A profile, which with the Boards to identify a suitable candidate to succeed Mr identifies the skills and experience of the Non-Executive Palmer.
Following the conclusion of the search process and on the Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, is set recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Boards out on page 68 and is available on the Reed Elsevier website, announced, in January 2014, the appointment of Nick Luff as Chief www.
Financial Officer to be effective at a date to be confirmed but is expected to be no later than 15 December 2014.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain their rights to appoint individuals to the respective Boards in Nick Luff has been Chief Financial Officer of Centrica plc, the UKs accordance with the provisions of the articles of association of biggest consumer energy group, since 2007.
Prior to that, he was these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed to at P&O, the FTSE 100 logistics and shipping group as well as its the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV or Reed affiliated companies, including P&O Princess Cruises and Royal Elsevier Group plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations Nedlloyd.
While at P&O, he worked for 15 years in a variety of Committee.
Members of the Committee abstain when their own senior finance roles, including Chief Financial Officer of the parent re-appointment is being considered.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and a former Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ As a general rule, letters of appointment in respect of Group plc and Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV.
He has a first class degree Non-Executive Directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier in mathematics from the University of Oxford and is a qualified UK NV provide that individuals will serve for an initial term of three Chartered Accountant.
years, and are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Boards may invite an individual to serve for an In accordance with the articles of association of Reed Elsevier additional period of three years.
PLC, Directors are normally subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by The respective articles of association of Reed Elsevier PLC and the Board.
Notwithstanding the date of Nick Luffs appointment Reed Elsevier NV provide that all Directors should be subject to remains to be confirmed, shareholders will be asked to elect retirement at least every three years and are then able to make MrLuff at the Reed Elsevier Annual General Meetings in themselves available for re-election by shareholders at April2014.
Subject to his election at the Annual General Meetings, subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Notwithstanding the Mr Luff will be appointed to the Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc in provisions of the articles of association, it is the Boards policy due course.
tocomply with the recommendations contained in the UK Code, and all Directors will seek re-election by shareholdersannually.
indd 71 07 03 2014 13:04 GOVERNANCE 72 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD ATTENDANCE Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Number of Number of Number of Date of appointment meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of cessation held while meetings held while meetings held while meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Anthony Habgood Chairman 6 6 6 6 7 7 Mark Elliott April 2013 2 1 2 1 2 1 Erik Engstrom 6 6 6 6 7 7 Wolfhart Hauser April 2013 4 3 4 3 5 4 Adrian Hennah 6 6 6 6 7 7 Lisa Hook 6 6 6 6 7 7 Marike van Lier Lels n a n a 6 6 n a n a Duncan Palmer 6 6 6 6 7 7 Robert Polet 6 5 6 5 7 6 Sir David Reid April 2013 2 0 2 0 2 0 Linda Sanford 6 6 6 6 7 6 Ben van der Veer 6 6 6 6 7 7 Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure comprising a Supervisory Board and a Management Board.
The Supervisory Board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Chairman, Duncan Palmer, Ben van der Veer and Marike van Lier Lels, with the Management Board consisting of Alberto Romaneschi, Gerben fide Jong and Jans van der Woude.
Duncan Palmer gave notice of his resignation as a member of the Supervisory Board effective as of 25 September 2014 or such other earlier date as the Boards may designate.
Appointments to the Supervisory Board and the Management Board are made by Elsevier Reed Finance BVs shareholders, inaccordance with the companys articles of association.
Date of Number of appointment meetings Number of cessation held while meetings Members during the year a director attended Rudolf van den Brink 3 2 Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Marike van Lier Lels 3 2 Duncan Palmer 3 3 Alberto Romaneschi 3 3 3 3 Ben van der Veer Jans van der Woude 3 3 29275 SAS p063-077.
