Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Frequency of meetings governance as set out in the revised UK Corporate Governance There were eight main Board meetings during 2013.
Code published in September 2012 the Code.
The Code is The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and available at www.
The Board is accountable to the individual attendance by the Directors are shown below Companys shareholders and this report describes how the Florence Pierre having joined the Board and its Committees Board applied the principles of good governance.
The Board Main Audit Nomination Remuneration At 31 December 2013, the Board of Directors was made up Board Committee Committee Committee of seven members comprising the Chairman, two Executive Total meetings 8 5 4 4 Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details Douglas Sutherland 8 4 of the Directors are set out on page 32.
Mark Dixon 8 The Board is mindful of the benefits of strength and diversity on Dominique Yates 8 the Board.
Our aim is to have a Board which is reflective of the broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience necessary to Lance Browne 8 5 4 4 properly serve our shareholders.
We have pursued this objective Elmar Heggen 7 5 4 4 by engaging Board members who have had broad executive Florence Pierre 5 4 3 3 responsibilities and bring very different and complementary Alex Sulkowski 7 5 4 4 personal experiences and approaches to matters including the evaluation of opportunities and management of risks.
Our Board Matters reserved for the Board members represent five different nationalities and six countries of The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its residence.
Along with their international operational experience, decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers they also bring a depth of working knowledge covering multiple of decision.
These include: industries, business models, corporate cultures, organisational approval of regulatory announcements including the interim models, functional areas and business issues.
During the year and annual financial statements: we were pleased to add Florence Pierre to the Board as a Non-Executive Director, contributing to the skillset and diversity terms of reference and membership of the Board and of the Board.
its Committees: The Nomination Committees decisions are based on merit changes to the Groups capital structure: while reflecting our intent to increase diversity, including gender changes to the Groups management and control structure: diversity.
The Board considers that its current balance ensures that no individual or group dominates capital investment in excess of 5m: and its decision making process.
material contracts annual value in excess of 5m.
Role of the Board Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial all Directors are encouraged to request inclusion in the Board leadership and to review the overall strategic development of minutes of any unresolved concerns that they may have.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews performance at every meeting.
Roles of Board members Capable management and relevant technical expertise in the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman business are critical to the implementation of the strategy.
Individuals with strategic responsibilities are invited to present The Chairman to and discuss with the Board on a rotating periodic basis.
Douglas Sutherland is responsible for leadership of the Board, Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures of financial information and the effectiveness of financial controls effective communication with shareholders and that the Board and the internal control and risk management system.
The Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates has delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to set both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and the remuneration policy for Directors and senior management.
constructive relations between the Executive Directors and The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
Board Directors and has responsibility for succession planning at The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is Board level.
The various Board Committees the Committees responsible for ensuring all Directors are properly briefed on have authority to make decisions in their areas of expertise.
issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
The Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
com investors 33 Corporate governance continued The Chief Executive Nomination Committee Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its Lance Browne Chairman delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework Elmar Heggen of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision making Florence Pierre and responsibilities accordingly.
Alex Sulkowski Non-Executive Directors Douglas Sutherland The Non-Executive Directors each bring their own senior level of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent counsel The Nomination Committee meets as required during the year to brought to the Group by the Non-Executive Directors enhances consider matters delegated to it under its terms of reference.
the overall decision making of the Board.
Non-Executive Directors Board effectiveness, performance, leadership and succession are appointed for an initial three-year term and are subject to planning were discussed informally by the Board as a whole.
election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Summary terms of reference: Company Secretary Board appointment and composition to regularly review The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising the structure, size and composition of the Board and make the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters recommendations on the role and nomination of Directors for and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board appointment and re-appointment to the Board for the purpose meetings and discussions.
The appointment and removal of the of ensuring a balanced and diverse Board in respect of skills, Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Board Committees Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and removal of Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board effectiveness to assess the role of the Chairman and Board members.
Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committees have been documented and approved by the Board and are available on the Companys Board performance to assist the Chairman with the annual website: www.
A brief summary of the members, performance evaluation to assess the performance and activities and terms of reference of the Committees is effectiveness of the overall Board and individual Directors.
Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues and Audit Committee commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep under Elmar Heggen Chairman review the leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to compete effectively.
Lance Browne Group structure Florence Pierre As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of central Alex Sulkowski administration head office in Luxembourg and being tax resident in Luxembourg, the Company is required to comply with both Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In addition, are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 38 to 40. the Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the Remuneration Committee UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the main market Alex Sulkowski Chairman of the London Stock Exchange.
It is possible that conflicts may arise between the obligations of the Company under the laws of Lance Browne each of these jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and the Elmar Heggen Listing Rules.
If an irreconcilable conflict were to occur then the Company may not be able to maintain its status as a company tax Florence Pierre resident in Luxembourg.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability could the year are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying out the Group to 53. reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group believes that under current laws and regulations the risk of irreconcilable conflicts between current laws and regulations impacting Regus plc is also low.
34 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements All shareholders are paid dividends directly from Regus plc SA Control processes plc.
All dividend payments are made without deduction of The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year Luxembourg withholding tax, regardless of the residence of and up to 4 March 2014, the date of approval of this Annual the recipient.
Report, which accord with the Revised Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Code.
These include the following: In general terms, UK resident shareholders receiving dividends from plc should be taxed in the same way as if they had received There are comprehensive reviews every six months of Group a dividend from a UK company.
Tax outcomes do, however, and regional financial performance, business development depend on the specific circumstances of shareholders and opportunities, Group infrastructure and general Group any shareholder in doubt about their tax position including, in management issues.
The results of these reviews are presented particular, UK-resident but non-UK-domiciled individuals who to the Board.
have elected to be taxed on a remittance basis should consult Formal country level business reviews are performed monthly their own professional advisor.
by regional and Group management covering performance Centrally managed applications and systems and management issues with country management.
All of the Groups systems and applications are housed in a Significant matters arising from these reviews are presented central data centre.
Should the data centre be impacted as a to the Board.
result of circumstances outside the Groups control there could The annual budget process is driven from senior management be an adverse impact on the Groups operations and therefore meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by business its financial results.
This risk is managed through a detailed centre and roll-up at country and regional level.
The Executive service arrangement with our external data centre provider which Directors review regional budgets to ensure consistency with incorporates appropriate back-up procedures and controls.
regional strategic objectives and the final budget is reviewed Strategy and approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic basis of business management throughout the year.
Country and regional strategic objectives, plans and Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and performance targets for 2014 have been set by the Executive distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are Directors and are regularly reviewed by the Board in the context reviewed against budget and forecast, and explanations are of the Groups overall objectives.
received for all material movements.
Control environment Key policies and control procedures including finance, High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all operations, and health and safety are documented in manuals levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to having Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff support this: via the Groups intranet system.
A clearly defined organisation structure with established The Board has formal procedures in place for the review and responsibilities.
approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group An induction process to educate new team members on the Investment Committee comprising the Executive Directors standards required from them in their role, including business reviews all investments prior to approval by the Board where ethics and compliance, regulations and internal policies.
Additionally the form and content of investment proposals are standardised to facilitate the review process.
Provision to all team members of a copy of the Team Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on employee The Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard to policies and the standards of behaviour required of staff.
Policies and procedure manuals and guidelines that are readily Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and accessible through the Groups intranet site.
operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to provide management at all levels with performance data for Operational audit and self-certification tools which require their area of responsibility which helps them to focus on individual centre managers to confirm their adherence to operational issues that may require their input.
Information and communications processes To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy The senior management team is integrally involved in the business to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and staff and to this extent regularly discuss and address issues and of high calibre and integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
opportunities with regional and functional teams.
Formal business review meetings are held with the regional teams and functional heads on a monthly basis.
com investors 35 Corporate governance continued Regular staff communications include general information on Other matters the business from senior management as well as operational Board performance evaluation guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
Following an external evaluation in 2012, an internal evaluation of Board performance was conducted for 2013.
Sales staff and operational management periodically attend regional sales or management conferences at which information The results of the 2013 evaluation were reviewed and are being on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present the key addressed in our efforts to continuously improve the processes messages to employees who did not attend the event.
and effectiveness of the Board.
There were no reportable matters identified from the evaluations and we continue to have full Monitoring effectiveness confidence in the Boards members and processes.
The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at various times during the year in the conduct of its review of Training and resources internal controls: Appropriate training is made available for all new Directors to assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training is review of the Groups monthly management accounts which provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with the contain detailed analysis of financial performance for the Group emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
and each of the Groups geographic reporting segments: During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided an ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, senior updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst management meetings and divisional reviews as well as other the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting management meetings, for the formal identification of significant developments through presentations from management, internal operational risks and mitigating control processes: audit and the external auditors.
The Board programme includes delivery of a  assurance programme by the presentations from management in addition to the Executive Internal Audit department that includes key business risk areas.
Directors which, together with site visits, increase the NonExecutive Directors understanding of the business and sector.
reporting the findings and recommendations of each review to management and the Audit Committee to support the Board in All Directors have access to the advice and services of the its role of ensuring a sound control environment: Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance monthly reporting on the development of the profitability of new are followed and complied with.
Should a Director request centres to allow appraisal of the effectiveness of investment independent professional advice to carry out his duties, activity: and such advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
annual internal control self-assessment and management Directors and officers insurance certification exercise covering the effectiveness of financial The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and and operational controls.
This is based on a comprehensive appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the Directors internal control questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal and senior management in the event of a claim being brought Audit.
Results and any necessary mitigating action plans are against any of them in their capacity as Directors and officers of presented to senior management and the Board.
Succession Dialogue with shareholders Our efforts to increase our management capacity and capabilities The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, through continuing development of our people, supplemented with the half year results typically announced in August and the by the hiring of experienced professionals, not only supports preliminary final results announced normally in March.
There are our ability to execute our growth strategy but also enables us to programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to address succession in a more robust way throughout the Group.
give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional Succession planning discussions are an integral part of our investors, analysts and media in London and other key locations.
business planning and review processes.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer maintain a In view of the future development of the Group and our objective close dialogue with institutional investors on the Companys to continue to enhance diversity and succession planning for performance, governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings Board roles, the Nomination Committee maintains an ongoing also serve to develop an ongoing understanding of the views and programme of engagement with highly qualified potential any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors of varied backgrounds and gender.
36 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders, and the Chairman is available and meets with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the half year results and the AGM.
The Company continues to engage the services of Brunswick as its investor relations adviser.
AGM The AGM each year is held in May in Luxembourg and is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are also given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM together with any related documents is required to be mailed to shareholders at least 30 clear days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The voting in respect of all resolutions to be put to the AGM is conducted by means of a poll vote.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting on a poll.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website: www.
Re-election of the Board As required by the Code, all Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually and Directors appointed during the period since the last AGM are required to seek election at the next AGM under the Companys articles of association.
Non-Executive Directors are also subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
Compliance statement The Company has complied with the provisions set out in section E of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, with the exception of the following: Provision E. 1.1 The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lance Browne does not have regular meetings with major external shareholders.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements as well as upon request.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, the Board considers that the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
