Audit Committee report The Audit Committee has, via delegated authority from the Board, Activities of the Audit Committee during the year the responsibility for applying an effective system of internal The Committee has a number of standing agenda items which it control and compliance: accurate external financial reporting, considers at each of its meetings, as well as any other specific fulfilling its obligations under law, the revised UK Corporate matters which arise during the year.
During the year, amongst Governance Code the Code and the Financial Reporting other items, the Committee reviewed and discussed: Councils report on Internal Control: Revised Guidance for the control observations from the previous years Group Directors on the Combined Code the FRC Revised Guidance, audit cycle: as well as managing the relationship with the Companys external auditors.
The Committee therefore acts on behalf of the internal controls and risk management as further particularised Board, meaning that the matters reviewed and managed by the within this report : Committee remain the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
the Group tax report: The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors as detailed on page 34 of the Corporate Governance report.
the interim and final dividends: All of the members are considered by the Board to be the integrity of the half year results and annual financial independent in character and judgement, and are competent in statements, alongside the formal announcements relating accounting and or auditing.
Furthermore, and in compliance with to them: and the Code, the Board regards Elmar Heggen as the Committee member possessing recent and relevant financial experience.
the Group audit strategy for the year.
The Audit Committee normally meets at least three times a year Risk management and during the year to 31 December 2013 met five times.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee oversees and Attendance at those meetings is shown on page 33 of the reviews an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Corporate Governance report.
At the request of the Chairman, managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks the external auditors, the Executive Directors, the Company and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible Secretary acting as secretary to the Committee and the executives as a part of the planning process and are endorsed Business Assurance Director may attend each meeting.
Key risks are reported to the Audit Committee, which in turn ensures that the Board is made aware The Audit Committee also routinely meets independently, without of them.
The appropriateness of controls is considered by the the presence of management, with the Companys external executives, having regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the auditors and with the Business Assurance Director to informally likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate discuss matters of interest.
those risks are regularly considered by both the Audit Committee Summary terms of reference of the Committee, the full text of and the Board, and are formally reviewed and approved by the which is freely available on the Companys website, are: Board annually.
financial reporting to provide support to the Board by Principal risks monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and ensuring There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have that the published financial statements of the Group and any an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group formal announcements relating to the Companys financial has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment and accounting standards.
evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning process, as well as the Groups monthly review cycle.
Internal control and risk systems to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Groups principal risks, together with an explanation of how the Group manages these risks, are presented on pages 24 to 27 Internal audit to monitor and review the annual internal of this Annual Report.
audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and free from management Internal control restrictions, and to review and monitor responses to the The Committee has a delegated responsibility from the Board for findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
the Companys system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system External audit to advise the Board on the appointment, is designed to identify, evaluate and control the significant reappointment, remuneration and removal of the risks associated with the Groups achievement of its business external auditors.
objectives with a view to safeguarding shareholders investments Employee concerns to review the Companys arrangements and the Groups assets.
Due to the limitations that are inherent under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns in any system of internal control, this system is designed to meet regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is matters.
The Audit Committee ensures that these arrangements exposed, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
allow proportionate and independent investigation and Accordingly, such a system can provide reasonable, but not appropriate follow-up action.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee routinely reports to the Main Board on how the Committee has discharged its responsibilities, as well as highlighting any concerns that have been raised as and when they arise.
38 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In accordance with the FRC Revised Guidance, the Committee The delegation of authority limits with regard to the approval confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, of transactions.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The generation of targeted, action-oriented reports from the During the year under review, the Committee continued to revisit Groups sales and operating systems on a daily, weekly and its risk identification and assessment processes, inviting Board monthly basis which provide management at all levels with members and senior management to convene and discuss the performance data for their area of responsibility, and which Groups key risks and mitigating controls.
helps them to focus on key issues and manage them A risk-based approach has been adopted in establishing the more effectively.
Groups system of internal control and in reviewing its The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated assurance programme effectiveness.
To identify and manage key risks: by the Internal Audit department that includes key business risk a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and standards areas.
The findings and recommendations of each review are have been established: reported to both management and the Committee.
a framework for reporting and escalating matters of significance Annual internal control self-assessment and management has been set up: certification exercise covering the effectiveness of financial and operational controls.
This is based on a comprehensive reviews of the effectiveness of management actions in internal control questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal addressing key Group risks identified by the Board have been Audit.
Results and any necessary mitigating action plans are undertaken: and presented to senior management and the Board.
a system of regular reports from management setting out key The maintenance of high standards of behaviour which is performance and risk indicators has been developed.
demanded from staff at all levels in the Group.
The following The above process is designed to provide assurance by way procedures are in place to support this: of cumulative assessment and is embedded in operational a clearly defined organisation structure with established management and governance processes.
responsibilities: Key elements of the Groups system of internal control which have an induction process to educate new team members on the operated throughout the year under review are as follows: standards required from them in their role, including business The risk assessments of all significant business decisions at the ethics and compliance, regulation and internal policies: individual transaction level, and as part of the annual business the provision of a copy of the Team Member Handbook to planning process.
A Group-wide risk register is developed all team members which contains the Companys Code of annually whereby all Company inherent risks are identified and Business Conduct, detailed guidance on employee policies assessed, and appropriate action plans developed to manage and the standards of behaviour required of staff: the risk per the Companys risk appetite.
The Board reviews the Groups principal risks register annually and management policies, procedure manuals and guidelines are readily periodically reports on the progress against agreed actions to accessible through the Groups intranet site: keep a close watch on how we are managing our key risks.
operational audit and self-certification tools which require The annual strategic planning process, which is designed to individual managers to confirm their adherence to Group ensure consistency with the Companys strategic objectives.
policies and procedures: and The final budget is reviewed and approved by the Board.
a Group-wide policy to recruit and develop appropriately Performance is reviewed against objectives at each skilled management and staff of high calibre and integrity Board meeting.
Comprehensive monthly business review processes under The Committee and the Board regard responsible corporate which business performance is reviewed on business centre, behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance framework area, country, regional and functional levels.
Actual results and believes that it should be fully integrated into management are reviewed against targets, explanations are received for structures and systems.
Therefore the risk management policies, all material movements, and recovery plans are agreed procedures and monitoring methods described above apply where appropriate.
equally to the identification, evaluation and control of the The documentation of key policies and control procedures Companys safety, ethical and environmental risks and including finance, operations, and health and safety having opportunities.
This approach ensures that the Company has Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff via the the necessary and adequate information to identify and assess Groups intranet system.
risks and opportunities affecting the Companys long-term value arising from its handling of corporate responsibility and corporate Formal procedures for the review and approval of all investment governance matters.
The Group Investment Committee comprising the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial The Committee has completed its annual review of the Officer reviews and approves all investments.
Additionally the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year to form and content of investment proposals are standardised to 31 December 2013 and is satisfied that it is in accordance with facilitate the review process.
the FRC Revised Guidance and the Code.
The assessment included consideration of the effectiveness of the Boards ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group.
com investors 39 Audit Committee report continued Whistle-blowing policy For the year ending 31 December 2014, the Audit Committee has The Company has an externally hosted whistle-blowing channel recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG EthicsPoint, which is available to all employees via email, and Luxembourg S. r. l. as the Companys auditors be proposed at on the Companys Intranet.
The aim of the policy is to encourage the Annual General Meeting.
all employees, regardless of seniority, to bring matters that cause The Audit Committee notes the recent dialogue regarding the them concern to the attention of the Audit Committee.
advantages and disadvantages related to the periodic rotation The Business Assurance Director, where appropriate and in of external auditors.
The Audit Committee has considered the consultation with the executive management team, decides on various viewpoints expressed in this debate in the context of the appropriate method and level of investigation.
Given the significant level of other changes over the last Committee is notified of all material discourses made and receives several years, which includes the mix of countries in which much reports on the results of investigations and actions taken on a of the audit work is conducted, the rapid growth and evolving regular basis.
The Audit Committee has the power to request structure of the Group, a change in Chief Financial Officer, further information, conduct its own inquiries or order additional ongoing efforts to continue to improve audit effectiveness with the action as it sees fit.
existing external auditors, and other factors, the Audit Committee does not believe at this time that it is appropriate or in the interest External auditors of shareholders to rotate external auditors primarily for the sake of KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. were the Companys auditors for change.
The Audit Committee is also monitoring developments in the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Audit Committee is the proposed EU legislation regarding auditor independence and responsible for oversight of the external auditors, including rotation.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review an annual assessment of their independence and objectivity.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the During the year, the external auditors provided the following effectiveness of the audit process, legislative developments, audit and non-audit related services: the rotation of the lead audit partner and other matters as Audit related: KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. audited the consolidated they monitor the appropriateness of the retention of KPMG financial statements of the Company, performed control Luxembourg S. r. l. as the Companys auditors.
observations throughout the Group and provided an overview of the half year results of the Company.
Non-audit related: KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. performed buy-side due diligence work on certain acquisitions by the Group.
It is the Companys policy to use the external auditors for nonaudit related services only where the use of the external auditors will deliver a demonstrable benefit to the Company as compared to the use of other potential providers of the services and where it will not impair their independence or objectivity.
All proposals for permitted defined non-audit services to use the external auditors must be submitted to, and authorised by, the Chief Financial Officer.
Permitted non-audit services include advice on financial accounting and regulatory reporting matters, reviews of internal accounting and risk management controls, non-statutory audits e. g. regarding acquisitions and disposal of assets and interests in companies and tax compliance and advisory services.
Prohibited non-audit services include book-keeping and other accounting services, actuarial valuation services, recruitment services in relation to key management positions and transaction acquisitions, mergers and dispositions work that includes investment banking services, preparation of forecasts or investment proposals and deal execution services.
The scope and extent of non-audit related services undertaken by the external auditors is monitored by and, above a threshold of 50,000, requires prior approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
The breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors during the year to 31 December 2013 can be found in Note 5 of the Notes to the Accounts.
40 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
