Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51 Governance directors corporate GoVernance report and board and committee performance diVision of responsiBiLities a.
LeadersHip and composition and as appropriate, tHecHairman tHe roLe of tHe Board corporate acquisitions structure and the role of chairman and chief the Board comprises four executive major capital expenditure programmes.
executive is a combined role and thus andfour non-executive directors in senior executives are invited to attend contrary tothe recommendations of the addition tothe executive chairman.
meetings during the year to provide UK corporate Governance code 2010 thedirectors holding office at the date updates to the Board on performance the code.
sir david mcmurtry has of this report and short biographical and strategy.
held this position since the company details are given on pages 46 and 47. became a quoted company in 1983 and the Board has three formally constituted full biographical details are available he and John deer hold the majority of committees, the audit committee, the onwww.
thecompany the voting interests in the company.
remuneration committee and the maintains liability insurance for its there has been a voting agreement in nomination committee.
directors and officers asdisclosed place between sir david and John deer there is an executive management intheother statutory andregulatory since 1983, further details of which are committee known as the executive disclosures.
set out in the other statutory and Board that is responsible for the regulatory disclosures on page 58. the the Board focuses on formulation of executive management of the Groups Board considers that there isstill a clear strategy, management of effective businesses.
it is chaired by the division of responsibilities atboard level business controls and review of chairman and includes the executive to ensure an appropriate balance of business performance.
there is a formal directors of renishaw plc and three power and authority so that there is no schedule of matters specifically reserved senior management representatives one person with unfettered powers of to it for decision.
these include the responsible for two core product lines decision.
the Board and executive approval of annual and half year financial ofthe Group, and the north and central Board meet on a sufficiently regular reports and interim management american market, respectively.
the basis to make decisions of significance statements, company andbusiness executive Board usually meets for two to the two business segments and acquisitions and disposals, major capital days on a monthly basis and considers review management actions.
it is expenditure, borrowings, material the performance and strategic direction intended that this combined role will agreements, director and company of the metrology and healthcare continue for so long as sir david secretary appointments andremovals, businesses and other matters of general mcmurtry remains on the Board and any patent-related dispute and other importance to the Group.
heand John deer hold a majority of material litigation, forecasts and major thevoting interests in the company.
inaddition, there is an executive sales product development projects.
and marketing committee known as the the chairman has no other significant the Board meets as often as is international sales and marketing Board commitments as regards employment necessary to discharge its duties which meets quarterly to determine the ordirectorships of other companies.
in the financial year ended Groups sales and marketing policies 30th June 2013, the Board met nine andstrategies and review its sales and times and the directors attendance marketing activities.
this committee is record at Board and committee chaired by the deputy chairman and meetings is set out at the end of this includes the assistant chief executive report.
inaddition, the non-executive and Group finance director plus the directors met a number of times without senior executives responsible for executive directors present.
thesixlargest sales regions and the Business reports are provided to the director of salesdevelopment.
Board for each of its meetings, including a framework of delegated authorities an update on financial performance, isinplace that maps out the structure r&d, sales and marketing activities, ofdelegation below board level and progress on new product sales and includes the matters reserved to the reports from corporate functions such executive Board and the level of as patents, Hr, health and safety, it, authorities given to management below legal and quality.
the Board is also the executive Board.
briefed on latest developments in the Board has adopted a conflict corporate governance, narrative ofinterests policy, putting in place reporting and corporate legal procedures for the disclosure and review compliance in these reports.
of any conflicts and potential conflicts in addition to the standing agenda items andauthorisation by the Board if felt such as business and financial appropriate.
authorisations granted and performance reviews, the Boards the terms of such are reviewed on an agenda over the course of the year annual basis.
new disclosures are includes matters of good corporate madewhere applicable.
governance, such as review of risk andinternal controls, conflicts of interest Renishaw plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance directors corporate GoVernance report continUed non-eXecUtiVe directors two new appointments were made to the Board has considered the theBoard during the year.
a recruitment recommendations of the Women on the senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available to listen to consultant, ct partners augmentum, Boards report issued by Lord davies was engaged to seek appropriate ofabersoch as regards setting out concerns of shareholders should the normal channels of the chairman and candidates and was provided with aspirations for the appointment of jobspecifications for the following women to the Board by 2013 and 2015 chief executive or the Group finance director fail to resolve such concerns, non-executive positions: firstly, a director and has decided that it is inappropriate to take on the role of chair of the audit to set out any levels that may require orfor which such contact is inappropriate.
the non-executive committee and secondly, an individual positive discrimination in this respect, with relevant experience in medical asthe overriding need is to appoint directors meet without the executive directors present to discuss devices.
the shortlist for interviews was directors with the necessary skills and to include candidates that have the experience for the role.
However, the performance and other matters.
required skills and experience and, Board acknowledges that diversity of where possible, at least one-third tobe alltypes should be borne in mind when B. effectiVeness female candidates.
ctpartners recruiting to all roles within the company composition of tHe Board augmentum has no other connection and has apolicy to provide for equal all the non-executive directors are with the company.
the Boards policy considered by the Board to be isto request where recruitment as a result of this recruitment process, independent in character and judgement consultants are appointed, that a carol chesney was appointed to the and there are no relationships or proportion of female candidates are Board with effect from 19th october circumstances that are likely to affect included in their shortlist.
2012. carol is a chartered accountant anon-executive directors judgement.
and company secretary at Halma plc commitment the code recommends that at least half where her role includes interpretation the terms of appointment of the the Board, excluding the chairman, ofaccounting standards, share plans non-executive directors, which includes should comprise independent nonandpensions, property, environmental, the expected time commitment from executive directors.
the Board complies anti-bribery and health and safety non-executive directors and requiring with this requirement at the date of this compliance, corporate governance any changes to other significant report but due to retirements and new andmanagement of internalaudit.
commitments to be discussed with appointments made during the year, thechairman and chief executive in JohnJeans was appointed a director theBoard was not compliant throughout advance, are available for inspection at on11th april 2013.
John formerly held the year in question.
the aGm and at the registered office senior leadership positions in several upon written request.
appointments to tHe Board global healthcare companies including smith & nephew, Bristol myers squibb, the nomination committee is none of the executive directors holds Johnson & Johnson and amersham plc responsible for reviewing the structure adirectorship in a ftse 100 company.
now Ge Healthcare and currently is and composition of the Board and deVeLopment chair ofthe council of cardiff University nominating candidates for appointment directors are offered the opportunity to and imanova.
in addition he chairs the to the Board.
the majority of the attend formal training courses to update Board of mrc technology and is a members of this committee are their knowledge of their duties as non-executive director of the alliance independent non-executive directors.
Guidance notes on changes medical Group.
He is also a board the members of thenomination tolaw and regulations are provided as member oftheUniversity and college committee are sir david mcmurtry appropriate.
non-executive directors are employers association, chairs the chair, carol chesney from october invited to attend internal conferences, technology strategy Boards stratified 2012, david Grant, John Jeans which provide information to the medicine advisory board, is a steering fromapril 2013 and Bill Whiteley.
Groupon new product development Board member of the Healthtech and theterms of reference of this committee and marketing initiatives.
Business medicines Knowledge transfer are published on the companys presentations are given at Board networkand is an advisor to the website.
this section of the annual meetings to provide updates on and University of manchesters venture fund.
report describes the work of the opportunities to discuss products nomination committee.
an induction pack is provided to new appointees to the Board and the induction programme includes site visitsand briefings by senior managers and attendance at internal senior management conferences and external trade shows.
Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53 information and sUpport re-eLection risK manaGement and internaLcontroL the Board receives appropriate in accordance with the code all the documentation, management accounts, directors will retire from the Board at the the Board is responsible for the forecasts and commentaries thereon next aGm and will offer themselves up companys systems of risk management inadvance of each Board meeting to forre-election or, in the case of directors and internal control and for reviewing enable its members to review the appointed by the Board during the year, their effectiveness.
any system of financial performance of the Group, election at the aGm.
internal control is designed to manage current trading and key business rather than eliminate the risk of failure initiatives.
the company secretary toachieve business objectives and c. accoUntaBiLity advises the Board on all governance canonly provide reasonable and not financiaL and BUsiness matters.
all directors have access absolute assurance against material reportinG tothecompany secretary and to misstatement or loss.
the respective responsibilities of the independent professional advice at the there are defined lines of responsibility directors and auditors in connection with companys expense where necessary and delegation of authorities.
there the financial statements are explained in to discharge their responsibilities as arealso established and centrally the statement of directors directors.
the appointment and removal documented control procedures, responsibilities and the independent of the company secretary is a matter including, for example, capital and other auditors report.
expenditure, information and technology GoinG concern security, and legal and regulatory eVaLUation compliance.
these are applied the Groups business activities and the Board normally undertakes an throughout the Group.
business model, together with the internal annual evaluation of the factors likely to affect its future performance of the Board.
this includes the group internal audit function development, performance and position the completion of aquestionnaire provides independent and objective are set out in the Business review, where designed and approved by the Board to assurance that the procedures are also given are details of the financial and provide a framework for the evaluation appropriate andeffectively applied.
in addition, note 23 in process.
it is the role ofthe senior theGroup audit manager attends the financial statements includes the independent director to summarise the auditcommittee meetings to present Groups objectives and policies for responses and discuss them with annual internal audit plans and the managing its capital, details of its individual directors and with the Board results ofsuch internal audits.
actions financial instruments and hedging asa whole.
the committees undertake are monitored by the auditcommittee activities and its exposures to credit risk asimilar evaluation process led by the on anongoing basis.
there is a process for the review of therequirement under thecode that the Group has considerable financial business risks throughout the Group.
evaluation of the board offtse 350 resources at its disposal and the these are reported on a monthly basis companies should be externally directors have considered the current bysenior management and overseas facilitated at least every threeyears has financial projections.
these reports are been noted and was implemented the directors believe that the Group reviewedby the Board.
david mensley of equity iswell placed to manage its business communications Limited was appointed the Board ensures that there are risks successfully.
to undertake an evaluation through use effective internal controls over the after making enquiries, the directors of a questionnaire focusing ontopics financial reporting and consolidation havea reasonable expectation that the such as board effectiveness, corporate processes.
monthly accounts and company and the Group have adequate strategy, risk oversight, training and forecasts are presented to the Board resources to continue in operational board administration.
the Group internal audit existence for the foreseeable future.
function undertakes a programme accordingly, they continue to adopt the theevaluation report is under review ofreview of subsidiaries accounting going concern basis in preparing the andaction points will be identified.
processes and performance to provide annual report and accounts.
equitycommunications Limited has no assurance to the Board on the integrity other connection with thecompany.
of the information supplied by each company which forms part of the the chairman and chief executive consolidated results of the Group.
Renishaw plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance directors corporate GoVernance report continUed the Board undertakes an annual formal the committee has primary the committee reviews the nature and review of the effectiveness of the responsibility for making the extent of the non-audit services supplied Groups system of internal controls and recommendation on the appointment, by the auditors, receiving regular reports an updated risk and controls analysis for reappointment and removal of external on the balance of audit to non-audit theGroup.
the review covers all material auditors, which the Board puts to fees.
the committee regards it most controls, including financial, operational shareholders for approval at the aGm.
cost efficient to use the auditors for tax and compliance controls and risk during the year, the committee adopted advice and compliance since this management systems.
policies on non-audit services and audit requires an in-depth knowledge and services provision.
a new audit partner understanding of the companys the Board considers that there is was allocated responsibility for the business, products, customer base and anongoing process for identifying, companys audit with effect from 2012, markets.
the non-audit services policy evaluating and managing the significant which will be taken into account in provides that the auditors shall not be risks facing the Group that has been in relation to consideration of the timing of allowed to provide services where there place during the year, is regularly the tender for audit services in future, it is involvement in management functions reviewed and accords with the turnbull being noted the recommendation in the or management decision making: and or guidance.
the Board confirms that 2012 revision of the UK corporate any service on which management may necessary action has been or is being Governance code is that tendering place primary reliance in determining the taken to remedy any significant failings should normally fit the five yearly cycle adequacy of internal controls, financial orweaknesses identified from its review.
it is intended that systems or financial reporting.
there are aUdit committee and aUditors atender for the audit will take place in also specified services which require the audit committee comprises the four 2017.
When tendering for audit services, theprior approval of the Group finance non-executive directors, carol chesney tenders will not be assessed solely on director and audit committee chair chair, david Grant, John Jeans and Bill thebasis of lowest fees, but on a before the auditors may be appointed Whiteley.
the Board is satisfied that at number of issues such as: toprovide such services.
in addition least one member of the committee has there are specified levels of authorisation skills and knowledge of the team recent and relevant financial experience, to be obtained before the auditors proposed to do the work: being carol chesney.
the terms of maybe permitted to tender for reference of this committee were Quality of work: non-audit services.
reviewed during the year and are independence of the audit firm from the committee reviews the policy by available on the companys website.
the company: which employees of the company may, the committee reviews the accounting in confidence, raise matters of concern, audit partner rotation and succession policies and procedures of the Group, including possible improprieties in planning: itsannual and interim financial financial reporting or other matters.
Global coverage for the companys statements before submission to the it also monitors the effectiveness of the subsidiaries: Board and its compliance with statutory companys procedures to avoid any requirements.
the committee monitors bribery by or received by Group Value for money: the integrity of the Groups financial employees and representatives audit approach and methodology: statements and announcements relating oftheGroup.
to financial performance and reviews the internal governance processes: the committee meets at least three significant reporting judgements times a year with the Group finance technical capabilities of the firm contained therein.
it also reviews the director, the Group financial controller, asawhole: and scope, remit and effectiveness of the the Group audit manager and the internal control systems and internal ethical behaviour and fair dealing.
one meeting, or part thereof, is held with the committee keeps under review the the external auditors without executive scope and results of the audit, its cost directors present.
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
the auditors d. remUneration provide a confirmation of independence on an annual basis.
the directors remuneration report explains how the company applies the code principles relating to remuneration.
Financial Shareholder Overview Performance Governance statements information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55 directors attendance at meetinGs Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board committee committee committee sir david mcmurtry 9 9 2 2 d J deer 8 9 B r taylor 9 9 a c G roberts 9 9 G mcfarland 9 9 1 c t chesney 5 5 1 1 0 0 1 1 2 t B Garthwaite 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 d Grant 9 9 2 3 1 2 2 2 3 d J Jeans 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 t d snowden 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 W H Whiteley 8 9 2 3 2 2 2 2 1 c t chesney was appointed on 19th october 2012 2 t B Garthwaite and t d snowden retired on 18th october 2012 3 d J Jeans was appointed on 11th april 2013 views with the directors at the aGm or e. reLations WitH discLosUre rULe ata new annual investor day at which sHareHoLders dtr 7.2.
6 r presentations on Group strategy, business segments and product lines the information regarding share capital diaLoGUe WitH sHareHoLders will be given by members of the Board required to be disclosed by this rule is the Board has reviewed its investor and senior management, as well as contained in the other statutory and relations and information disclosure tours covering the Groups activities.
the interim and annual open days with appropriate notice may results and presentations are posted on be organised from time to time at the Board and committee the companys website promptly after companys site.
the corporate website announcement of the results to the UK memBersHip attendance is being significantly expanded and Listing authority via an ris.
open record arange of corporate videos are being webcasts of presentations on annual developed which will expand on areas shown against each directors name in and half-yearly results are held and such as Group strategy and products.
the table above is the number of recordings of the presentations and the subsequent question and answer meetings of the Board and its constrUctiVe Use of tHe aGm committees at which the director was sessions made available after the the aGm takes place at the companys webcast on the companys website.
present and, in brackets, the number of headquarters or one of the companys meetings that the director was eligible private presentations by directors with other sites and formal notification is sent toattend during the year.
investors, potential investors or analysts, to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
a business will be given following publication of the compLiance statement presentation is given and all directors are annual results for the year ending 30th available for questions during and after June 2013 only.
thereafter, no private the Board considers that it has the meeting, including the chairs of the meetings will be held other than complied with the requirements of the audit, remuneration and nomination shareholder meetings with the code throughout the year except in committees.
tours of the companys chairman, senior independent director relation tothe following matters the facilities are offered.
and or any other non-executive director reasons for non-compliance are stated where a shareholder has material issues, the company reports on the number in the report above : concerns or questions.
the director ofproxy votes lodged on each the combined role of chairman and attending such a meeting will resolution, the balance for and against chief executive: and communicate the shareholders issues, each resolution and the number of votes concerns or questions to the Board.
withheld after the resolution has been for part of the year at least half the theBoards response will be published dealt with on a show of hands.
Board did not comprise independent on the renishaw website for the benefit thisinformation is provided to the non-executive directors.
shareholders attending the aGm andpublished via an ris and on analysts and brokers reports will be W H Whiteley thecompanys website following circulated to the Board.
the Board senior independent director themeeting.
intends to hold open discussions with 24th July 2013 any shareholder who wishes to share
