48 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report Role of the committee John McAdam The committee has delegated authority from the Board as set out Chairman in its terms of reference.
The primary purpose of the committee is to ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board is undertaken and to recommend any changes to the composition of the Board and its committees and to instigate and manage recruitment processes.
Material findings and recommendations are reported at the next Board meeting and copies of the minutes of meetings are circulated to all directors where appropriate.
The terms of reference of the committee were reviewed by the committee during 2013 and are available at www.
com Dear fellow shareholder The Nomination committee provides a focus for the key task Composition of the committee of ensuring that the Board continues to comprise a group of The composition of the committee and attendance at meetings in individuals who work effectively together as a team and who 2013 is shown in the chart on page 39.
The committee met nine times possess the right mix of experience and talent to provide during the year.
All non-executive directors are invited to participate effectiveoversight and challenge to management.
in meetings of the committee.
In the context of the committees work in 2013 on executive management development and succession The committees principal task in 2013 was to conclude an processes leading to a recommendation to the Board over chief internal evaluation of the executive management team to identify executive succession, all non-executive directors participated in those with the potential to succeed to the role of chief executive meetings of the committee for key discussions on this subject.
and to identify training and development opportunities that would facilitate the development of the senior cadre of executives in the Appointment process and diversity Company, leading to the opportunity of filling executive director Our policy on appointments to the Board is set out in the Directors roles as well as to identify gaps that might need to be addressed Remuneration Report on page 60.
In brief, all appointments are through external recruitment.
made on merit against objective criteria and the process is usually Having completed the internal evaluation, which commenced in supported through the use of an external recruitment consultant.
2012, the committee gave consideration to the availability of talent This process was followed over the appointment of Angela Seymouroutside the Company to provide future executive leadership and Jackson in 2012.
The process typically commences with the selection undertook a thorough review of external candidates for the chief of a recruitment consultant, considered to be most suited for the executive role from similar business-to-business backgrounds and proposed appointment.
The agency will be briefed on the skill sets others with strong credentials from other sectors.
The committee and candidate experience we were seeking to attract.
The recruitment was assisted by Egon Zehnder International EZI in its evaluation consultant EZI in the case of Angela Seymour-Jackson, then of both internal and external candidates.
prepares a candidate specification for approval by the committee.
Thereafter potential candidates are identified, interviews take place The committee was unanimous in concluding that Andy Ransom with members of the committee, with other non-executive directors was the right candidate to recommend to the Board as a and with executive directors, following which the Nomination successor to Alan Brown as chief executive.
In the months since committee forms a recommendation for consideration by the Board.
his appointment as chief executive the Board has been pleased both with the transition process and with the start he has made A similar process is undertaken when external candidates are under in evolving the existing strategy through a differentiated plan to consideration for executive roles.
deliver on the investments in people and processes that have The issue of diversity was considered by the Board in 2012, and been made in recent years.
This is predicated on appointing the best The committees report on the year follows.
To avoid precluding any deserving candidate from consideration, the policy requires that shortlists contain Yours faithfully candidates from as diverse a range of backgrounds as possible.
While gender is an important element of diversity it is important that these lists are gender-neutral and constructed entirely on merit and measured against the required objective criteria.
The Board is in no doubt that in order to secure the best talent either for the Board, or for within the business, it is essential to draw on the widest John McAdam possible talent pool.
Optimum diversity enriches debate and Chairman, Nomination Committee problem solving at Board level as well as in governance processes 28 February 2014 throughout the group.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 48 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report 49 The Board has confirmed its aspiration to broaden gender diversity Activities of the committee in 2013 with the appointment of a second female director by 2015 and is also mindful that as director rotation occurs candidates will be sought Chief Executive succession who fit the skills criteria and gender balance that is in line with the As mentioned above, the majority of the committees time in Board aspiration.
We continue to focus on encouraging diversity and 2013 six of nine meetings was dedicated to the completion of an business skills and experience throughout the group, recognising executive management review and the chief executive succession that directors and leaders in our businesses with diverse skill sets, process.
As part of that process, the committee reviewed in capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and detail the output from the executive management assessment cultural backgrounds enhance the effectiveness of the organisation.
process, discussed and settled the candidate specification for the role of chief executive, approved a shortlist of candidates from The gender breakdown for the group as a whole some 52,000 both within the Company and externally and met with candidates colleagues at the end of 2013 and for the operational management individually, in some cases on a number of occasions, prior to population some 2,500 colleagues is provided in the Directors forming a unanimous recommendation that Andy Ransom should Report on page 51. succeed Alan Brown as chief executive.
The committee was supported in this work by EZI and by the groups HR director.
Director induction process Following the appointment of any new director, the Chairman, in Other matters considered by the committee in 2013 included: conjunction with the company secretary and the group HR director A review of the committees report within the 2012 annual report ensures that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is and recommended approval to the Board made available.
The induction process is summarised below: A review of the committees effectiveness which was externally On appointment the company secretary provides information facilitated by Lintstock, an independent corporate governance on the groups businesses, including: consultancy Board minutes from the prior year A review of the membership of the Audit committee following Key Board papers from prior year which are still relevant William Rucker stepping down as a director in March 2013 Key policies and procedures and recommended that Alan Giles join the committee Governance information about the Company, including the role A review of the potential conflicts of interest authorised by the of the Board, committees, Chairman and Chief Executive Board and a review of the processes in place to ensure that Guidance for directors on the UK Listing Authority and Financial potential conflicts are properly considered Reporting Council publications A review of the performance of individual directors, utilising Before and after the first Board meeting the new director will attend: the output from the Board evaluation process, and making Business briefing with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial recommendations to the Board over the re-election of directors Officer at the AGM Meetings with other members of the senior management team Committee effectiveness Meetings with country managers The committee conducted a review of how it operates, which Visits to sites within the UK and overseas concluded that the committee had operated effectively in 2013.
Meeting with auditors and financial advisers The focus of the review had been substantially on executive Meetings, with the external legal advisers on UK company law, management succession and the overwhelming proportion of the directors duties and regulatory requirements committees time during the year was dedicated to this critical activity.
The committee noted that in 2014 its attention would be focused on non-executive director rotation and succession.
John McAdam Chairman, Nomination Committee 28 February 2014 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
