32 Corporate Governance Executive Leadership Team Executive Leadership Team 2 3 4 1 5 6 7 1.
Phill Wood Chief Executive Managing Director, UK & Rest of World formerly Executive director and Regional Managing Director, Skills and experience Appointed to above position in October West region until 1 October 2013 2013.
He joined the Company in 2006 as Managing Director Europe Please see page 30.
Pest Control and was appointed Managing Director of the Pest Control division UK and Ireland in 2009.
Mike Brown RAC plc for 15 years, holding Managing Director positions of Managing Director, Initial Facilities commercial fleet and outsourced vehicle solution divisions.
Prior to Skills and experience Appointed in September 2010.
Formerly that he held commercial business development and senior operational Group Director of Operations and prior to that CEO of Integrated roles within the Lex Service group.
Services at Serco Group plc.
His previous career was with BOC Current external commitments and relevant qualifications Group, holding Managing Director positions in Europe, China No external commitments.
First class BSc Hons in Management and South East Asia.
He also worked for Nestl Ltd and GKN.
A Chartered Management Formerly a Non-executive Director of NG Bailey Ltd.
Current external commitments and relevant qualifications No external commitments.
John Myers Managing Director, North America 3.
Jeremy Townsend Skills and experience Appointed to above position in October 2013.
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer He joined the Company in 2008 as President and Chief Executive Please see page 30. of North America Pest Control division.
His previous career was as Senior Vice President of Sales at Cintas Corporation.
Martin Sawkins held a number of operations and business development roles within Group HR Director the Cintas group.
Prior to that he was President and Chief Executive Skills and experience Appointed in November 2008.
Previously at Bio Quest LLC and began his career with American National Can held positions as group HR Director at HomeServe plc: group HR Company where he held a variety of sales, operations and marketing director at The AA Ltd and HR Director at Centrica Home and Road roles including one international assignment.
Prior to this held a number of senior positions in HR and Current external commitments and relevant qualifications operations at British Aerospace and United Biscuits.
Member of the United Way Board in Berks County and the Current external commitments and relevant qualifications National Pest Management Association Board.
Degree in Business Non-executive director of Wincanton plc.
BSc Hons in Physics Administration from the University of Vermont and MBA from Mercer from Southampton University.
Peter Slator Managing Director, Europe formerly East region Note: The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Leadership Team, comprising the regional business and functional leaders.
They meet regularly to review Skills and experience Appointed in April 2009.
Previously worked performance, priorities and operational actions.
Further information on the for 28 years with Unilever, having been Executive Chairman in Executive Leadership Team is provided on page 37.
Australasia and prior to that the group Head of IT and before that Managing Director of the Foods business in Japan.
Current external commitments and relevant qualifications Board member of the European Textile Services Association.
BSc Hons in Physics from Imperial College, London.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
