42 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report It is also evident that as the Company emerges from a significant Duncan Tatton-Brown period of change involving a focus on operational effectiveness, Chairman, management capability improvements and portfolio change there Audit Committee remains an opportunity to further improve risk management and processes for the identification and assessment of risk.
It is reassuring that throughout this period of significant change the Company has not suffered any incident which has highlighted a major misjudgement of risk: however there is an opportunity for improvement in processes which will further embed risk management principles into the everyday consideration of risk, without undue bureaucracy.
As described in this report, we will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit assurance process but the committee has seen clear benefit from the more thematic and targeted approach to internal audit assurance over the last two years which has helped to ensure that internal audits forward-looking programme Dear fellow shareholder is fully aligned with the groups risk profile and its strategy.
The Audit committee has a clear set of responsibilities laid down in its The committee has considered the recommendations of the Code terms of reference and agreed by the Board.
These terms of reference and related guidance in relation to tendering the external audit at were reviewed and updated during the year and conform with the least every 10 years.
As shareholders will be aware, KPMG Audit Plc requirements of the Code and to the best practice standard laid down were appointed auditors to the group in 2009 following a competitive by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA.
As reported last year, the lead audit partner appointed in 2009 The committee comprises only independent directors and its retired from the firm early in 2013 and the Company has a new lead overriding purpose is to provide assurance to the Board that the audit partner with effect from the beginning of the 2013 financial year.
interests of shareholders are appropriately protected, principally Given that the committee is comfortable with the effectiveness of the in the areas of financial reporting both internal and external and audit process and the committees relationship with KPMG is good over the effectiveness of the internal control environment and of the the committee does not see audit re-tendering as relevant to the internal and external audit processes.
The role of the committee Company at the present time.
is set out in this report and the terms of reference are available at I continue to be satisfied that the committee has been provided with www.
com good quality and timely material to allow proper consideration to be The Code requires that the committee report on significant matters given to the committees responsibilities.
The committee has met with considered during the year.
In this report the committee reports the external and internal auditors without management present on a formally on the issues in relation to the financial statements where number of occasions and I have a regular dialogue with the external key judgements were taken and these relate to: reorganisation costs audit partner, the chief financial officer and the head of risk and audit.
and one-off items, the annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets, and provisions for tax contingencies.
In their audit report on pages 73 to 74 the auditors also provide a commentary Yours faithfully on what they consider to be the significant matters of judgement taken in respect of the financial statements.
I am comfortable that all material issues of accounting judgement have been fully discussed by the committee and that there were no divergent views between management and the auditors that were not resolved.
In addition to consideration of areas of accounting judgement we Duncan Tatton-Brown have set out on pages 43 to 44 a summary of all the activities of Chairman, Audit Committee the committee during the year divided between the committees 28 February 2014 primary areas of focus: internal controls and risk, external audit and financial reporting.
On a more general theme, it is evident to me that the improvements in capability organisation, systems and people, that have been a feature of the groups strategy in recent years continue to show through in year-on-year incremental improvements in the robustness of the groups control framework.
This had led to the opportunity for some assurance processes to be directed to higher added-value activities, whilst the progress has been encouraging, we will remain vigilant and so will maintain an appropriate emphasis on the quality of basic financial controls.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 42 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report 43 Meetings of the committee are attended by the Chairman, the chief Role of the committee executive, the auditors, the director of risk and audit and the company The Audit committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring secretary.
Other company executives attend meetings periodically such of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
The as, the group financial controller and treasurer, the group tax director committees focus is to review and challenge in these areas both with and the divisional or regional finance heads who periodically update the management and with internal and external auditors.
The committees committee on control and reporting within their areas of responsibility.
terms of reference include a responsibility on the committee to advise the Board on whether the content of the annual report taken as a whole represent a fair, balanced and understandable representation Activities of the committee in 2013 of the Companys performance, financial position and prospects.
The committee met six times during the year and attendance The committee: at those meetings is shown on page 39.
The committee has a regular work plan and additional matters are added to the agenda monitors the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim of meetings which are dictated either by current events or by management statements, including a review of the significant the requirements of the committee.
The areas of focus for the financial reporting judgements contained in them committee in 2013 are summarised in the chart below.
In addition keeps under review the Companys internal financial controls to these matters the committee was briefed on general reports and internal control and risk management systems issued by the auditors regulatory bodies, or from other sources, such as from the ICSA on risk reporting and the Competition provides the Board with an independent assessment of the groups Commission on the market for audit services.
accounting affairs and financial position monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal Internal controls and risk audit function The status of the control environment and on control incidents establishes and oversees the Companys relationship with the each meeting external auditors, including setting their fees, monitoring their The resolution of issues raised during internal audit investigations independence and effectiveness and ensuring that the Companys and the status of outstanding actions each meeting policy relating to their engagement on non-audit matters is appropriate and observed Group risks and the related mitigation status for both 2012 reporting and as part of the strategy review in the fourth quarter monitors matters raised pursuant to the Companys of 2013 whistleblowing arrangements The circumstances and investigation of a breach of local law and The committee reports to the Board on its activities and minutes of regulation and Code of Conduct compliance in the Companys meetings and material considered by the committee is shared with operation in Indonesia the Board.
The anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy removing some The Board is required by the Code to present a fair, balanced ambiguities and making executive responsibilities more explicit and understandable assessment of the Companys position and The resolution of the operational HR policy control incident in prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the Australia reported in 2012 statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the annual The review of HR processes worldwide including specific report and the financial statements set out on page 54. actions underway to underpin and ensure compliance with laws, regulation and group policy Terms of reference Group reporting processes and the central control environment, The terms of reference of the committee are available at www.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed by The conclusions and themes emerging from the internal audit the committee during 2013 and the Board approved a number of investigations conducted during the year and approved the amendments to the text to ensure that the terms of reference are fully plans for 2014 in parallel with the Boards strategic review and aligned to current best practice.
They take full account of the Smith operating plan for the year Guidance on the role of audit committees.
External audit Composition of the committee The terms and scope of the audit engagement for the annual, The members of the committee are set out on page 39 in the half-year and quarterly financial statements together with fees Corporate Governance Report.
Alan Giles replaced William Rucker charged as a member of the committee when William Rucker stood down as a director on 14 March 2013.
Duncan Tatton-Brown, who chairs the The ef fectiveness of the external audit process, which included an committee, is a chartered management accountant with extensive analysis prepared by finance function heads both centrally and in financial and accounting experience.
Both Peter Bamford and Alan business units measuring performance relative to earlier periods Giles have extensive commercial and operational experience in Consideration of the reappointment of the auditors at the 2013 overseeing the financial affairs of substantial business undertakings.
AGM and the requirements of the 2012 Code concerning the Biographical information on all committee members is set out on re-tendering of audit services at least once in every 10 years pages 30 and 31.
Committee members are all independent nonA review of the annual financial statements, consideration of executive directors and Duncan Tatton-Brown is considered by principal areas of accounting judgement or materiality, further the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The details of which are provided in this report committee did not find it necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than through its usual dialogue with the auditors.
indd 43 01 04 2014 16:34 44 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report continued Additionally there have arisen costs which, if included within trading The level and nature of services provided by the auditors that profit, would give a misleading view of the underlying performance was outside the scope of the audit of financial statements and of the business, and therefore are treated as one-off items.
The risk compliance with the Companys policy on the provision of relating to both of these categories is that costs are included which non-audit services by the auditors are really part of the underlying performance of the business and that The processes undertaken and discussions between the therefore this is misstated.
auditors and management on matters relating to audit In order to address this risk, management requires that all items must judgements discussed with the auditors without executives have prior authorisation for their treatment from the group finance present team.
Additionally there is a group finance policy with which these The audit strategy for the 2013 audit including the key areas items must comply in order to qualify for this treatment.
In the case of focus, materiality levels, scope and coverage of reorganisation costs there must also be a specific business case An analysis setting out the basis on which KPMG continued to supporting the expenditure signed off by the chief financial officer.
meet the appropriate professional standards of independence The auditor reviews material items recorded as reorganisation costs as auditors to the Company and one-off items to ensure they comply with the groups policy and that, where appropriate, they are supported by an approved business Accounting and financial reporting case.
The committee has discussed the items with management on The effectiveness of the internal control and risk management a quarterly basis to discuss and review the nature of these items and framework and consideration of the statement to shareholders to receive assurances that these processes have been complied with.
on the control environment After such scrutiny, the committee is satisfied that the items have The annual, half-year and quarterly financial statements together been appropriately categorised.
with the significant financial reporting judgements relating to each statement Annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets The financial performance of acquisitions made in the current The group has 379m of acquired intangible assets.
Management is and previous two financial years to validate narrative statements required to perform annual tests for potential impairment of goodwill in external reporting and other intangible assets.
The groups principal non-financial assets A review of accounting issues associated with the disposal are grouped into cash generating units CGUs for the purpose of of the City Link business in April 2013 assessing the recoverable amount usually a country business unit.
The committees report to shareholders contained within the Where a CGU carries goodwill above the local equivalent of 1m 2012 report and accounts of the Company sterling, this must be tested for potential impairment using a centrally A review of material litigation and claims in connection with the provided model.
For goodwill balances below the local equivalent preparation of financial statements to establish that necessary of 1m sterling, CGUs are only required to satisfy themselves that appropriate provision had been made nothing has happened since the previous review or since the goodwill balance was established that would indicate any impairment.
A review the basis on which it was reasonable for the Board to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of financial Cash flows are based on recent strategic plans as amended for any statements and advise the Board accordingly significant changes since preparation.
Discount rates used for cash A review of the transactional accounting processes and flows must be the applicable rate from the published group discount systems across the group and changes underway to improve rates.
CGUs are required to provide positive confirmation that they effectiveness and reduce the overall processing cost have performed impairment tests and, where applicable, that they are satisfied that no impairment of goodwill is necessary.
Significant issues considered by the Audit committee The auditor reviews the centrally provided model and a sample After discussion with both management and the external auditor, of individual CGUs impairment testing, as well as evaluating the the committee determined the key issues of accounting judgement procedures undertaken to identify indicators of impairment in the year.
affecting the financial statements and therefore providing the potential Although the total values are significant, management have been able for material misstatement in the groups financial statements related to demonstrate to the committee that there is material headroom in to be: the major balances based on the assumptions made.
Where there Reorganisation costs and one-off items has been an indicator of impairment, management have impaired the asset to its recoverable amount.
Annual impairment assessment of goodwill and acquired intangibleassets Provision for tax contingencies Provision for tax contingencies The group operates across a wide range of tax jurisdictions, representing many different approaches to the charging and These issues have been discussed and reviewed by the committee collection of corporation tax.
Because of the complexity of the during the year but notably at the review of the interim results and groups tax position there are a number of areas where significant at the review and agreement of the audit plan for 2013. judgement is exercised.
The group employs local tax experts to Reorganisation costs and one-off items support judgements where there is significant uncertainty and the Since the appointment of a new Chief Executive in 2008, the groups amounts involved are material.
In respect of transfer pricing across management team has been implementing a recovery plan based on tax jurisdictions the group has benchmarked its approach using operational excellence.
To support this plan there are a large number international tax experts to ensure the risk of breaching local tax of improvement initiatives, the costs of which have been recognised authority requirements is mitigated.
Where the judgements are as reorganisation costs in the consolidated income statement.
material to the group, the auditor uses its own specialists to assist Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 44 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report 45 in the review of the approaches taken and assumptions made in reporting to shareholders on the committees activities in relation bymanagement and ensure these result in adequate provisions.
to its review of the financial statements, as provided in the Code.
Thecommittee is satisfied that the assumptions supporting the The committee considers that it has an effective working relationship valuations are appropriate and that the provisions are reasonably with the external audit team.
As reported below, the committee has stated in the financial statements.
formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and is satisfied with their performance.
Internal audit Audit related and non-audit services The group has an internal audit team of six led by the director of risk To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, and audit.
The team draws additional resources when required from the Company has a policy on the engagement of the auditors co-sourced auditors from external practices, principally Deloitte LLP.
services on audit related and non-audit services.
The committee The committee also has the benefit of the output from the controls accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken testing programme carried out by the Companys auditors, KPMG by the external auditor.
The policy sets out the nature of services that Audit Plc.
The director of risk and audit reports to the chief financial are permitted and those that are specifically prohibited.
In general, officer and has direct lines of communication with the Chairman of permitted services would be limited to matters that are closely related the Audit committee, the chief executive and the Company Chairman, to the annual audit process or where a detailed knowledge of the as well as to all operational and functional leaders in the business.
The auditor is permitted to be engaged on transaction services but not to undertake any work which would itself The Company has continued the process of bringing additional talent be subject to audit.
The committee reviews regularly the amount and into the audit team.
The changes in the structure of the internal audit nature of non-audit work performed by the auditor to ensure that the function started in 2011 are largely complete and the committee auditors independence is not compromised.
Any engagement on remains comfortable that the assurance process has been enhanced permitted services in excess of 50,000 requires the approval of the by the changes made.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function Chairman of the Audit committee and any engagement in excess will be kept under review.
of 250,000 requires the approval of the committee.
A copy of the During the year, internal audit continued with the approach first policy is available at www.
com adopted in 2012, to review a broad range of business processes in Fees for audit related and non-audit services incurred during the depth at a relatively limited number of business locations.
The audit year amounted to 0.5m 2012: 0.7m, representing 15% of the plan approved by the committee in December 2012 was mostly audit fees.
Details of the fees paid for audit services, audit related completed, although a number of planned audits were postponed services and non-audit services can be found in note A11 to the to 2014 due to other business priorities.
The common themes and financial statements.
related recommendations arising from the 21 audits completed or in progress, considered by the committee covered: key financial Disclosure of information to the auditor controls, payroll processes including a data mining review of the The committee monitors the process leading up to the preparation groups largest payroll, performance monitoring and non-financial of financial statements, including the arrangements the Company KPIs, IT services and general controls, pricing strategy, procurement, has in place for disclosing all relevant audit information to the auditors.
customer contract management, project management, business Aformal confirmation on disclosure of information to the auditor continuity management and Code of Conduct compliance.
is provided in the Directors Report on page 54.
In each area of focus recommendations for incremental improvements Effectiveness were agreed with management and realistic time frames set for Under the Code the committee is required to review and monitor the actions to be completed.
Progress on the completion of agreed external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness recommendations is reviewed by the committee as is any departure of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK from agreed time frames.
Despite some complexity relating to the City Link disposal and a significant acquisition in the US None of the failures identified by internal audit in the control in the last quarter of the previous year, the 2012 audit went smoothly environment or any of the recommendations resulting from individual and all milestones were achieved on time.
There were no significant audits represented a systemic underlying issue and overall the work unexpected events relating to the publication of the year-end results.
of the internal audit function is supportive of the committees and the Boards view set out in the Risk Management section later in this The committee conducted a review of the auditors effectiveness report that the financial controls environment is working adequately.
during the year, drawing input from the chief financial officer, the director of risk and audit and other members of the senior finance External audit management team as well as from the majority of the finance Audit services directors of the groups subsidiaries.
The process made use of a The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide an formal evaluation using a questionnaire which was completed by opinion on the financial statements and certain other disclosures 37 business unit and the UK shared service centre as well as by prepared by the directors.
KPMG Audit Plc has acted as the central functions.
The questionnaire covered: external auditor to the group throughout the year.
The committee is resources and expertise of the external audit team responsible for oversight of the external auditors, agreeing the audit effectiveness of the audit process strategy and related work plan as well as approving their fees.
effectiveness of the financial controls testing process The auditor attends all meetings of the committee and meets with the committee without executive management present.
The committee considered the detailed findings of the review which The main engagement with the committee in 2013 has been included a number of detailed recommendations, none of which over the review and publication of annual and periodic financial was material in the overall context of the group audit but was statements and consideration of the changes required this year helpful in relation to improvements in the Companys processes Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 45 01 04 2014 16:34 46 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report continued and those of the auditor.
Taking all responses into account, the regular reviews of business performance including updates on the scoring mechanism, which was the same as in the previous year risks that the business is facing, and challenging management to demonstrated that the audit performance was effective and at a obtain assurance that these risks are being effectively managed similar level to the previous year.
review of managements approach to identifying and managing risk including approval of the group risk register Auditor independence and objectivity As part of an internal reorganisation within the firm, our current auditor, evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including KPMG Audit Plc has instigated an orderly wind down of business.
financial, operational and compliance controls Engagements will in future be conducted through KPMG LLP.
In evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit accordance with s. 489 of the Companies Act 2006, the Board has delegation of authority to the chief executive and chief financial decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor of the officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company Company and a resolution concerning their appointment and a resolution to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM of the Company.
committee, the full remit of which is described above.
In concluding that KPMG LLP should be appointed as auditor at The Audit committee receives regular reports from the chief financial the 2014 AGM, the Board and the Audit committee took into account officer and the director of risk and audit on financial controls and the need to ensure that auditor independence was safeguarded.
These include: The Audit committee also took into account the review undertaken a report on the overall status of the control environment in the of the effectiveness of the audit process as well as input from group including the results of testing executive management.
a report on identified areas of weakness in controls The Company considers that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure that the required level of independence action plans on control environment improvements is maintained.
The Company has a formal policy on the provision of status updates on the implementation of action plans non-audit services provided by the Companys auditors.
As reported periodic reports from divisional and functional finance executives above the amount of non-audit fees earned by the auditor is routinely reported to the Audit committee.
The Board does not consider that The Group Risk committee chaired by the chief financial officer there is any material risk of the Companys auditor withdrawing from includes senior functional executives with day-to-day responsibility the market.
for the internal control environment covering financial, HR and IT systems, legal and regulatory compliance as well as the director of Auditor re-tendering risk and internal audit and from 2014 a representative of operational The Companys audit services were last subject to a tender management.
The Group Risk committee supports the Audit process in 2009 at which time KPMG Audit Plc replaced committee and executive management by:  LLP as the groups auditor.
The lead audit partner at group level changed with effect from the beginning of providing oversight of the framework for managing risk throughout the current financial year, his predecessor who had been lead audit the group partner on KPMGs appointment in 2009 having retired from the providing oversight of the processes for reviewing the effectiveness of firm in 2013.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the the group risk management framework and internal control systems committees choice of auditor.
assisting the committee and the Board over the assessment of the The Code states that FTSE 350 companies should tender the provision significant risks the group is willing to take of audit services at least every 10 years or explain their approach, if monitoring emerging risks different.
A resolution concerning KPMGs appointment as auditors and setting of its fees will be proposed at the 2014 AGM of the Company.
reviewing internal responsibility for appropriate mitigating strategies Specific programmes are used to support implementation of the Groups approach to risk management and Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws and regulations.
internal control In some cases dedicated specialists ensure that standards are set The groups approach to managing risk and ensuring that an effective and complied with, for example in health and safety, IT security, internal control environment is maintained is described below and the pensions and tax.
More broadly, computer-based training is used to Boards statement on internal control and risk is set out in the section ensure that expected standards of behaviour are widely disseminated immediately following.
and adopted across the group, for example to ensure compliance The identification and management of risk is fully integrated into with competition law and anti-corruption anti-bribery legislation.
the development of the groups strategy and into the day-to-day Independent re-assurance of the effectiveness of risk management operational execution of the strategy by the divisions regions and and internal controls across the group is provided to the chief business units.
Ensuring that risks are identified and managed executive and the Board by group internal audit.
effectively is a part of every managers and supervisors job through leadership of the teams for which they are responsible.
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the Company to the Chief Executive who, together with his Executive Leadership Team, The Board has overall responsibility for the groups risk management are responsible for day-to-day identification and management of risk, approach, which includes: which includes: review and approval of the groups overall strategy, including setting targets and objectives for their respective teams in line with defining the groups overall risk appetite.
This implicitly involves the agreed group strategic direction identifying the risks that may prevent the group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these risks are mitigated or managed to an acceptable level Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 46 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report 47 monitoring of business performance through monthly and quarterly this process has been in place for the year under review and meetings with regional and functional leadership which include up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts reviews of financial performance, non-financial metrics, latest the process is regularly reviewed by the Board financial forecasts and progress in delivering the projects to drive the process accords with the Code operational excellence and capability improvement compilation and regular review of the group risk register which Code of Conduct defines the key risks that the group faces in delivery of its strategy The groups Code of Conduct was reviewed and updated at the and ensures that the options to manage or mitigate the risks are end of 2013 for distribution early in 2014.
Policy and procedures on in place and working anti-bribery and anti-corruption introduced in 2010 were reviewed ensuring that operating units maintain sound systems of internal and updated in 2013.
Over 3,000 colleagues have participated in control and that appropriate assurance mechanisms are in place online training to reinforce policy and related procedures covering to confirm that these internal controls are working effectively.
competition law issues as well as anti-bribery and anti-corruption This includes controls relating to the preparation of financial matters.
In 2013 a Human Rights policy was adopted to bring added statements, operational controls and controls to ensure that the focus to Code of Conduct compliance particularly in the area of third business meets its legal and regulatory obligations, e. g. in health party supply arrangements.
and safety, tax and employment The Code of Conduct is distributed in 26 languages covering all of delegating authorities to ensure that decisions are always made the groups material operations and a communications programme at the appropriate level in the organisation taking into account and material for workplace briefing to support reinforcement of Code the level of risk involved financial and non-financial of Conduct compliance is embedded in the business units.
The promulgating the Code of Conduct which defines how colleagues effectiveness of the communications programme is reviewed by group and others who act on behalf of the group must behave internal audit.
The Code communications for front line colleagues when dealing with colleagues, suppliers, customers and other includes graphic material, tailored to each business category, flagging stakeholders.
This includes approval of policies, procedures and the key Dos and Donts of responsible business conduct that are processes that underpin the Code of Conduct that are designed embedded in the groups Code of Conduct.
The Board will continue to ensure that the group meets its legal and regulatory obligations to keep policies supporting Code of Conduct compliance under regular review to ensure that they are appropriate and effective.
Board statement on the effectiveness of risk management and internal control Whistleblowing Speak-up The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining sound systems There are policies and procedures in place for the reporting by of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their colleagues of suspected wrongdoing, for these suspicions to be effectiveness.
The systems of internal control and risk management formally investigated, and for the results of the investigation to be have been developed to ensure compliance with the Code on reported to the whistleblower.
The committee receives a report on internal control and risk management.
control incidents arising from whistleblowing as well as from other sources.
The committee also reviews periodically processes which The system of risk management and internal control described in the the Company has in place to ensure that in all territories there is preceding section is designed to manage and mitigate risk rather than an effective communication process through which colleagues are eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing kept informed about the whistleblowing process.
Global freephone business objectives, internal controls and risk management can only numbers and a dedicated email address have been established.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material In addition to workplace material for colleagues, multiple language misstatement or loss.
information on the Speak-up programme is prominently displayed Risks are considered in the context of long-term strategic and on the group and individual business unit intranet sites.
emerging threats: medium-term challenges associated with business change programmes: short-term risks triggered by changes in the Committee effectiveness external and regulatory environment: short-term risks in relation to The committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using the internal operations and control.
services of Lintstock, an independent external corporate governance consultancy.
The review concluded that the committee had received The Board gains confidence over the effectiveness of control sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable processes through regular and transparent management reporting, it to fulfil its responsibilities and highlighted some areas to improve the the governance processes and from the external and internal effectiveness of the committees oversight of the control environment assurance processes.
The Board reviews the strategic risks facing and associated assurance processes.
the group and mitigating actions as part of its annual review of strategy and operational risks.
The Audit committee assists the Board in meeting its obligations for maintaining sound systems of risk management and internal control and a summary of the committees activities in 2013 is provided earlier in this report.
The Board has conducted a review of Duncan Tatton-Brown the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended Chairman, Audit Committee 31December 2013 and confirms that: 28 February 2014 the group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
