34 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Good corporate governance from the Board down through the business units ensures the right decision-making processes, controls and information to drive strategy and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Specifically the Board must: Compliance statement As noted in the Chairmans introduction, the principal governance provide entrepreneurial leadership framework applying to the Company is the UK Corporate Governance understand and monitor risk Code.
The edition of the Code published in September 2012 applied develop the business model, consider and approve strategy, throughout our year ended 31 December 2013.
The report also approve annual operating plans and major transactions addresses the requirements of the Code published in June 2010 as the Listing Rules are still subject to the 2010 edition of the Code.
ensure the adequacy of management resources and make TheCode is published by the Financial Reporting Council and executive appointments including that of chief executive if you wish to review the full text it is available on its website at both challenge and support executive management, oversee the https: www.
The Company has complied throughout governance process and the control framework 2013 with the relevant main principles and detailed provisions set report to shareholders and be accountable to them out in both editions of the Code.
A schedule of the matters reserved for the Boards attention is The Chairman, John McAdam, is not considered to be independent reviewed annually and was most recently reviewed in December as a result of his participation in a one-off incentive arrangement 2013.
The schedule sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility approved by shareholders in 2008 in connection with the recruitment for the groups strategy, operations and risks and reserves to the at that time of a new leadership team for the business.
Board power to approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
The schedule is available on the Companys website.
Without seeking Role and effectiveness of the Board to single out one responsibility above others the Board is mindful of The role of the Board its responsibility for the groups risk management approach, including The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of evaluating and reviewing the overall level of risk that is inherent in its the Company by creating value for shareholders and always acting in strategy and for the execution of that strategy.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives An overview of the matters considered by the Board in 2013 as well as ensuring that it takes into account safety, environmental is shown in the table on page 40. and social factors when reviewing operations and taking decisions.
Board responsibilities For more information go to pages 30-33 Principal governance responsibilities C hairman C hief S enior Independent Co mpany John McAdam Executive Director Secretary Andy Ransom Peter Long Paul Griffiths Duties include: Duties include: Duties include: Duties include: Leading and managing the Recommending strategy and Leading the non-executive Secretary to the Board and each Board directors appraisal of the of its committees, reporting strategic priorities Chairman directly to their chairmen Timely information to directors Managing agreed strategies Work with the Chairman on Facilitating the induction and and strategic priorities Setting the agenda and Board effectiveness ongoing training requirements managing the Boards time Operational and financial ofdirectors Providing an alternative performance Communication with channel of communication Assisting the Chairman and shareholders With the Chief Financial for investors, primarily on senior independent director in Officer, explaining Director induction, training corporate governance matters their evaluation of the Board performance to shareholders and development Being a sounding Board Keeping the Board and its Executive management Board succession for the Chairman committees informed on capability and development Performance evaluation governance matters and Responsibility for all corporate advising on these through responsibility matters which theirchairmen are reviewed at least annually Assisting in the overall by the Board and by the development of group policies Executive Leadership Team The groups corporate responsibility performance is in the groups web-based 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report which is available online at www.
com Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 34 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 35 Key Board roles All directors may serve on a number of other boards, provided that The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief they can demonstrate that any such appointment will not interfere Executive is set out in writing and is summarised on the previous page, with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain together with the primary responsibilities of the senior independent the agreement of the Chairman before proceeding.
This ensures director and those of the company secretary.
Non-executive directors that any potential conflicts of interest are considered and addressed.
have regular opportunities to meet with members of executive The major commitments of the directors are shown in their biographical management and also hold discussions under the leadership of the information on pages 30 and 31.
Currently non-executive directors Chairman without executive members present.
At least once a year are obliged to commit at least 20 days a year and the Chairman is non-executive directors meet under the leadership of the senior obliged to commit at least two days a week to the Company.
independent director without the Chairman being present.
The continuing independence of non-executive directors is critical to their ongoing effectiveness over challenging executive management.
Appointments to the Board and composition The independence of directors is reviewed as part of the individual The Companys articles of association empower the Board to appoint director performance evaluation process.
The performance evaluation new directors.
To ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure process provides assurance that all non-executive members of the for appointing directors, a Nomination committee comprising Board retain the independence of judgement which underpins the independent non-executive directors chaired by the company culture of constructive challenge in the boardroom.
The non-executive Chairman has responsibility for managing the appointment process directors bring their wide experience to the boardroom for the benefit and its work is described on page 48. of the execution of business strategy, and as a group and individually constructively challenge the executive team both at Board and In order for the Board to discharge its duties and responsibilities committee meetings as well as during the many exchanges which effectively, it must comprise the right blend of individuals whose skills occur between formal meetings.
and experience are gained in a diverse range of backgrounds.
Most importantly, directors must exhibit independence of mind, integrity With the exception of the Chairman, John McAdam, all non-executive and have the ability to challenge constructively when appropriate.
All directors have been determined by the Board to be independent, appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In the having retained their independence of character and judgement.
In case of candidates for non-executive directorships, time commitment making this determination the Board has taken into account indicators and potential conflicting interests are considered carefully by the of potential non-independence as set out in the Code.
Letters of appointment and employment took part in the Boards consideration of their own independence.
contracts are available for public inspection on the Companys website.
The Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be At the date of this report the Board has nine members: the Chairman, determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
six non-executive directors, and two executive directors.
The names In the case of Peter Long, who has served as a director for eleven of the directors serving throughout and at the end of 2013 and their years six years following the change in executive management in biographical details are set out on pages 30 and 31.
William Rucker 2008 the Board benefits from his considerable experience and stepped down from the Board on 14 March 2013 and Alan Brown knowledge resulting from the length of his service as well as from stepped down from the Board as a director and chief executive on his wider business experience.
1 October 2013 at which time Andy Ransom, an existing executive director, was appointed chief executive.
Directors length of service As mentioned in the introduction, diversity considerations are among Directors tenure the important factors considered by the Nomination committee and the Board when considering the composition of the Board.
The Board 22% 0-3 years has made a statement of its aspiration to have two female Board 22% 4-5 years 34% 6-7 years members by 2015.
22% 8-11 years Duncan Tatton-Brown will have served as a director for nine years in 2014 and will step down from the Board at the AGM in 2014.
The Company is currently undertaking a recruitment process for a nonexecutive director with current financial management experience who we would expect to chair the Audit committee.
Peter Long, who is currently senior independent director, has agreed with the Board that, Board performance, training and succession subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in May, he will remain The Board ensures that the directors continue to provide suitable as a director until the end of December 2014. leadership for the Company through a regular performance evaluation process, training processes, Board succession planning and annual Balance and independence of Board members re-election by shareholders.
The Board believes that it and its committees have an appropriate composition to discharge their duties effectively and to manage Performance evaluation This involved an external independent succession issues.
The Board keeps its membership and that of facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with the Chairman and company its committees under review to ensure that an acceptable balance secretary to set the context for the evaluation.
Lintstock is a specialist is maintained and that the collective skills and experience of its corporate governance consultancy and has no commercial dealings members continue to be refreshed.
It is satisfied that all directors have with the group, other than over the provision of corporate governance sufficient time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not services to the Board.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 35 01 04 2014 16:34 36 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report continued The evaluation in 2013 covered: the balance of skills and experience, of seeking an additional non-executive director with recent and relevant independence and knowledge, diversity including gender, how the financial experience.
Further information on the succession planning Board works together, all of which are important factors relevant to process is included in the Nomination committee report on page 48. an assessment of the Boards effectiveness.
This year there was Training particular emphasis on the way in which the committees, the Board The Company is mindful that ongoing training for executive directors and the Chairman dealt with the succession planning process and and non-executive directors must be targeted to specific needs.
arrangements concerning the transfer of responsibilities from Alan Where appropriate, directors participate in peer group discussion Brown, the outgoing chief executive, to his successor Andy Ransom.
forums and seminars related to the commercial environment, for The review also covered: Board support and time management, example relating to executive remuneration, financial reporting strategic and operational risk oversight, succession planning and or risk management.
Training also covers the group, its business priorities for change.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured sectors and governance matters more generally.
in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Further information on the induction process for new directors is The Board considered the output from the 2013 review earlier this included in the Nomination committee report.
month and agreed a number of actions summarised below: Annual re-election More comprehensive analysis of competitor landscape and In accordance with the Code the directors are subject to annual positioning by category, given the added focus on the pest, re-election by shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an hygiene and workwear categories informed decision, the 2014 notice of the AGM includes biographical Refinements in reporting linked to the adoption of the Differentiated information and a statement as to why the Company believes the Growth quadrant matrix basis for operational management adopted directors should be re-elected.
The results of the individual director by the chief executive performance review undertaken by the Chairman indicate that each Incr eased time allocation of strategic risk issues both at Board director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to strategy discussions and in routine performance reporting the role.
We will report on the actions in the 2014 report.
The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all Succession planning directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of The Board is ultimately responsible for succession planning for directors and key management roles.
The Nomination committee has commitment to the role.
The terms of the directors service contracts conducted a formal performance evaluation of each non-executive are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report starting on page 55.
Directors interests in shares are disclosed on page 70. directors seeking re-election and concluded that their performance continues to be effective and that each demonstrates commitment to Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the the role.
The committee is also satisfied that the backgrounds, skills non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys experience and knowledge of the continuing directors collectively registered office and will be available at the AGM which will take place enables the Board and the committees to discharge their duties and on 14May 2014.
A pro-forma of non-executive directors letters of responsibilities effectively.
The Nomination committee is in the process appointment is available at www.
com Board committees and Board support Board of Directors See page 30 Chief Audit Nomination Remuneration Finance Executive committee committee committee committee See pages 30 and 34 See pages 42 and 43 See page 48 See page 55 See page 37 Executive Group Risk Leadership Team committee See page 32 See page 38 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 36 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 37 In order to operate effectively and to give the appropriate level of Executive governance attention to the range of matters required to be addressed by the The Boards governance procedures delegate the day-to-day Board, tasks have been delegated to committees.
Each committee management of the groups businesses to the chief executive who in has written terms of reference, approved by the Board, summarising turn cascades authority to the wider management population through its objectives, remit and powers, which are available on the Companys a documented schedule of authorities, setting out responsibilities, website at www.
Membership of the principal decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels Board committees is shown in the directors attendance and in the organisation.
Executive leadership team Agendas, papers and minutes of committee meetings are generally To support the chief executive in managing the business at group provided to all Board members, save for the private sessions of level the Executive Leadership Team has been established under committee members.
Chairmen of committees update the Board the chief executives chairmanship and comprises the groups following each committee meeting.
The Nomination committee is operational heads and heads of the finance, human resources and chaired by John McAdam who, while not an independent director, information services and marketing functions.
They meet regularly to as the Company Chairman, is considered by the Board to be the review performance, priorities and operational actions.
Biographical appropriate person to chair the Boards Nomination committee.
information on the executive directors, Andy Ransom and Jeremy The chairmen of committees attend the AGM to answer any Townsend is provided on page 30 and information on other current questions on the committees activities.
members of the Executive Leadership Team is shown on page 32.
Reports by the principal Board committees, audit, remuneration Senior leadership forum and nomination, including a full discussion of their role, structure The chief executive has also established the senior leadership forum and composition are set out between pages 42 and 72. comprising the most senior operational and functional colleagues who are engaged on a monthly basis to share progress and discuss In addition to the principal Board committees the Board operates priorities on the range of common issues that are critical to the a number of ad hoc committees.
The main one being the Finance operational performance of the group as a whole.
committee which comprises the Chairman, the chief executive, the chief financial officer and non-executive directors with relevant Integrated single country operating model financial experience.
This committee reviews matters concerning In 2013 the group largely completed the migration of its governance Company financing and group treasury policy and makes model to the single country operating model which has provided not recommendations to the Board on financing matters.
only additional operational focus at country level and reduced lines of The Chairman, supported by the company secretary, ensures that communication but also significant cost savings through the removal the Board is kept properly informed and that matters are given of the divisional structure and by the amalgamation of operating unit appropriate attention.
Board papers and other information and management in country.
resources are provided in sufficient time to allow directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
All directors are able to make Clear roles and responsibilities further enquiries of the executive directors or management whenever Clarity of roles and responsibility is critical and a clear distinction necessary and have access to the company secretary.
There is a between governance, centres of excellence, spread of best practice procedure in place for directors to take independent legal advice, and local activities as illustrated in the chart on the next page.
if they judge this to be necessary, at the Companys expense.
Managing conflicts of interest The directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly might conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Board is permitted under powers from shareholders contained in the articles of association to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation where a director has a conflict of interest and as part of the process the Board considers each potential conflict situation on its particular merits.
The Board maintains a register of authorisations granted and the scope of any approvals given.
These potential conflicts are not material either to the Company or, the directors believe, to the other companies that are the subject of the potential conflict.
The register of authorised conflicts is reviewed by the Board periodically.
All of the approvals given have been situational and no transactional conflicts have occurred.
The process for authorising potential conflicts and authorisations given under the process is reviewed on behalf of the Board by the Nomination committee on an annual basis.
Details of directors interests are shown on page 70.
No director has a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business at any time during the year or to the date of this report.
indd 37 01 04 2014 16:34 38 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report continued One Rentokil Initial clear roles and responsibilities Governance Centres of Excellence Best Practice Sharing Local Activity Rules set centrally Subject matter experts, One best way, efficiency Local teams provide ongoing within framework adding value with benefits and effectiveness input and activate of scale Identification of best practice Creating structure to share and distribute best practice Disclosure committee Corporate responsibility The Companys disclosure committee, chaired by the chief financial The chief executive is responsible for corporate responsibility and the officer, supports the Boards responsibility for the accuracy and Executive Leadership Team has authority for reviewing all aspects of timeliness of the disclosures made by the Company, whether in corporate responsibility.
The main Board reviews specific corporate connection with its financial reporting obligations or on other matters.
responsibility matters on a regular basis and on a broader basis at least once a year.
A Safety, Health and Environment SHE report Group risk committee is submitted to each meeting of the Board and of the Executive The Companys risk committee, chaired by the chief financial officer, Leadership Team.
Key performance indicators on health and safety has oversight of the groups risk and control functions and reviews the matters are reviewed at each meeting and published annually.
risks the group is facing and the effectiveness of the internal controls.
Risk management and internal control is an intrinsic part of the Business units governance process as is the identification, management and control The governance process in business units comprises the application of risk.
Information on the risk management and control framework of group and local policies and procedures, management oversight is provided in the Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 27 to 28 and the analysis and management of risk, all underpinned by the and in the Audit committee report on pages 42 to 47. groups values and behaviours.
The operating framework is designed to ensure that decisions are taken at the right time by colleagues with Performance reviews appropriate authority, after considering all relevant factors from The chief executive and chief financial officer lead monthly and commercial to reputational.
The group operates through locally quarterly business performance reviews with business unit constituted and governed legal entities in over 60 countries.
The groups change programmes driving Corporate entities are managed in compliance with local law and capability improvements are monitored by regional and functional regulation and under principles set out in the groups code of conduct programme Boards reporting to members of the Executive which is communicated internally in local languages and simplified LeadershipTeam.
formats and is available to shareholders at www.
indd 38 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 39 Directors liabilities and protections Board meetings Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the The Board met eleven times during the year, of which eight meetings Companys business dealings.
They face significant personal liability were pre-scheduled.
The remaining meetings were called to deal with under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure individual matters which did not necessarily require full attendance.
& Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including As in previous years the Board has this year visited one of its major censure, fines and imprisonment.
The Company considers that overseas operations, on this occasion the North America pest control it is in its best interests to protect individuals who serve as directors business.
The Board had the opportunity to meet the extended from the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this management team of the business and conduct a full review of the enables the Company to continue to attract prudent individuals progress to date in integrating the acquisition of Western Exterminator to act as directors.
into the North American business as well as to review business performance and the significant organisational changes which The Company maintains at its expense a directors and officers have been implemented to improve the overall effectiveness of the liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain business.
circumstances for the benefit of group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the directors.
The policy does not A summary of the activities carried out by the Board during the provide cover where the director or officer has acted fraudulently year is shown on the next page and directors membership and or dishonestly.
attendance at Board and committee meetings is shown below.
In addition the Company has granted indemnities in favour of Non-attendance at meetings by directors was either as a result directors, as permitted by s. 232 to s. 235 of the Companies Act of unavoidable changes in commitments, illness, or from ad hoc 2006.
In general terms, the indemnities protect directors to the meetings called by the Company which conflicted with existing extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in arrangements.
The Chairman seeks the views of any director unable the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement to attend a meeting and provide a briefing on outcomes.
Directors is given in their favour or the proceedings or otherwise disposed are provided with material for all meetings, whether or not they are of without finding fault or where there is a successful application able to attend.
to court for relief from liability.
The indemnity operates to the extent that the director is not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Companys directors and officers liability insurance.
Directors attendance and committee membership Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee John McAdam 11 11 9 9 Chairman Andy Ransom 11 11 Jeremy Townsend 11 11 Peter Bamford 9 11 5 6 Richard Burrows 11 11 8 8 Alan Giles 11 11 4 4 8 8 Chairman 8 9 Peter Long 9 11 7 8 7 9 Angela Seymour-Jackson 11 11 8 8 Duncan Tatton-Brown 11 11 6 6 Chairman 9 9 # Alan Brown 9 9 William Rucker 2 3 1 2 Total number of meetings 11 6 8 9 Alan Giles became a member of the Audit committee in March 2013 # Alan Brown resigned on 1 October 2013 William Rucker resigned on 14 March 2013 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 CorpGov ID6 p29-54.
indd 39 01 04 2014 16:34 40 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report continued The Company has been notified pursuant to DTR 5 of the following Key items discussed in 2013 meetings substantial interests in the Companys share capital.
At all meetings Substantial interests in shares at 28.02.14 Safety, health and environment performance metrics and No.
of Nature of operational actions % ordinary shares holding Chief Executives report on key financial, operational, HR and Schroders plc 15.07 273,875,763 Indirect strategic issues Invesco Ltd 13.97 254,053,324 Direct Chief Financial Officers report on financial performance, including cash flow, treasury matters and forward-looking Aviva plc and subsidiaries 6.66 120,863,049 Direct information on key metrics Ameriprise Financial Inc. 5.00 90,790,221 Indirect Board committee reports Blackrock Inc. 4.96 90,090,116 Indirect Approval of minutes and updates on actions Investor relations activity Socit Gnrale SA 4.81 87,287,805 Direct Potential conflicts of interest and authorisation of new matters AXA SA 4.80 87,093,421 Indirect asrequired Orbis Holdings Ltd 3.54 64,277,495 Indirect Other topics Setting the annual operating plan Ameriprise Financial Inc. includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd Arrangements concerning the sale of City Link Annual and periodic financial results Formal reporting Internal control framework and going concern matters The Company publishes quarterly trading updates in May and Material litigation and disputes quarterly November, a half yearly unaudited interim statement at the end of July early August as well as audited financial statements which Board effectiveness, independence and director performance are announced in February and circulated to shareholders at the Corporate responsibility performance and reporting end of March.
In addition, the Company makes regulatory news Chief Executive succession announcements when required to ensure that all required information Medium-term debt financing under the Companys Euro is made available to shareholders on a timely basis.
medium-term note programme The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and On-site review with the North America management team of the understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects US pest control business and market opportunities in its external reporting.
The Board considers that the annual report The integration of the Western Exterminator acquisition in 2012 and accounts for 2013, taken as a whole, is compliant with the Code Initial Facilities business review with the divisional Managing requirement and provides the information necessary for shareholders Director, Mike Brown to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Acquisition opportunities Over 80% of shareholders obtained their primary information on the Strategy including consideration of long-term portfolio options Company through electronic communications and the Companys for the group website.
The Company strongly encourages shareholders to use Senior management succession electronic means for accessing shareholder communications, Colleague engagement and enablement saving resources and cost that would be involved in distributing printed material.
Shareholders who elect to receive electronic Board governance and procedures communications can revert to paper communications at a future Organisation structure and operating model time, if they so wish.
The Company periodically canvasses new UK pension scheme funding shareholders on how they wish to receive their shareholder Acquisitions performance communications and did so in February 2014.
Principal risks The Companys website www.
com contains information on the Companys operations and the website investor centre Accountability to shareholders contains information on past results and publications, press releases Accountability to shareholders is a key consideration and the Board and analyst presentation material.
It also contains information to is extremely conscious that it is a steward of the business and help shareholders manage their holdings such as change of address that ultimately it manages the group on their behalf.
Accountability or change of name notifications, transfer of shares, lost share represents both clear and open reporting on current performance certificates, online and telephone share dealing facilities and how and plans for the future and taking into account the views expressed to receive shareholder communications electronically.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and an ADR listing on the New York Stock Exchange to facilitate shareholding by retail investors in the United States.
All ordinary shares carry the same rights and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
Further information on the rights attaching to shares can be found in the Directors Report on page 50.
indd 40 01 04 2014 16:34 Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 41 Shareholder communications Annual general meeting The Board places great importance on communications with The 2014 AGM will be held at 12 noon on 14 May 2014 at the shareholders and also recognises the contribution made by other Desoutter Suite, Sofitel, Gatwick Airport North Terminal, Crawley, providers of capital and is open to hearing the views of such West Sussex RH6 0HP.
A separate circular containing the notice providersin so far as they are relevant to the Companys overall of meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special approach to governance.
business has been sent to all shareholders and is available on the Companys website.
The following summarises the activities carried out by the Company to ensure that investors and other interested parties have a transparent The Company encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM and effective dialogue with the Company.
and to participate in discussion of the matters before the meeting.
The chief executive will give a presentation to shareholders at the The Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer make AGM on the Companys strategy and performance and all directors themselves available to shareholders at all appropriate times will be available to answer questions both formally at the meeting Regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through one-to-one and informally after the meeting.
and group meetings, formal investor and analyst conference calls Voting at the AGM will be conducted by a poll and the results as well as ad-hoc communications, where appropriate announced to the market and displayed on the Companys website Formal presentations are held after full-year and half-year results, on the day following the AGM.
to which investors and sell and buy-side analysts are invited.
These presentations are web-cast and any investor is able to hear the presentation and related questions and answers via the Companys website.
Slide presentations of results are hosted on the Companys website as are recordings of meetings Conference calls for investors and analysts are hosted after the first John McAdam and third quarter trading updates, with typical levels of participation Chairman in excess of 80 shareholders and analysts 28 February 2014 Investor roadshows are conducted after full-year and interim results, involving extensive investor meetings on each occasion The Chief Financial Officer, supported by the group treasurer, regularly meets with and hears the views of representatives of the debt capital markets The Chairman, the senior independent director and committee chairmen are available to attend meetings with investors, as required and will typically do so on a number of occasions annually The Company provides opportunities for private client investor presentations across the UK The Board receives material issued by shareholder representative groups to ensure that the views and preferences of investors are taken into account The Company sees the AGM as an important opportunity for all shareholders to engage with the Board over performance and other matters on the agenda for the meeting and encourages both private and institutional shareholders to attend The Board is briefed on the Companys investor relations programme through a regular report from the Head of Investor Relations as well as by periodic updates from the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer Additional information for investors can be found on pages 138 to 140.
