36 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit The Board as a whole reviews the risks facing the Group, Committee of the Board with reference to the UK Corporate and the processes on mitigating those risks, on a regular Governance Code the Code and associated best practice and formal basis.
The Board also reviews the work carried guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
out by the Internal Audit function.
Audit Committee composition Audit Committee frequency The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Two meetings comprises independent non-executive Directors of the of the Committee were held during 2013 with full attendance.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Cloke, who The Chairman of the Audit Committee also meets with the has significant financial experience gained as a Managing Group Finance Director and the external auditor, as required, Director within HSBC Banks Corporate Sector Group.
to discuss matters pertinent to the Audit Committees Tony Hughes is also a member of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also recommends that audit committees be comprised of at least meets, as required, with the Group Internal Audit function two independent non-executive directors in the case of to review their findings.
smaller companies defined as those outside the FTSE 350 or at least three for companies with a premium listing, Audit Committee process such as The Restaurant Group plc.
During 2013 the The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined Audit Committee was comprised of two independent in its terms of reference, through Audit Committee meetings non-executive Directors.
during the year, at which detailed reports are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee commission reports The Board continues to review the composition of the Audit from external advisers or Company management, either after Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task consideration of the Companys major risks or in response and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and to developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to internal and external controls.
meet privately with the external auditor at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas The Committee regularly invites the external auditor, the for review.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director to its meetings.
Discussions are held During the year, the Committee considered the in private when appropriate.
following matters: interim and full year financial results.
As part of this review Responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Committee received reports from the external auditor The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and their terms of reference and the principal matters are to: review of the Interim Results: provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, quality the scope and cost of the external audit: and reliability of financial information used by the Board the external auditors interim and full year reports: and in financial statements issued to shareholders and non-audit work carried out by the external auditor in the public: accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the review the Companys internal procedures for control and safeguard of audit independence: compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy itself the effectiveness of the external audit process and that these are adequate and effective: consideration of the reappointment of the external auditor: review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the the suitability of the Groups accounting policies preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure and practices.
Specific accounting policy issues which they comply with statutory requirements and generally were considered include the Groups policies in relation to accepted accounting principles: the impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets and receive reports from the Groups external auditor the classification of leases.
concerning external announcements, in particular the for further information on the judgements and estimates Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: reviewed in relation to the impairment of goodwill and develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the tangible fixed assets, see section b of the critical external audit process, review the independence of the accounting judgements and key sources of estimation external auditor, review the provision of non-audit services and uncertainty in the accounting policies for the provided by the external auditor and review remuneration consolidated accounts on page 44. paid to the external auditor: and the Committee reviewed managements assessment of consider any other matter that is brought to its attention the principle terms of the Groups property leases and by the Board or the external auditor.
challenged their interpretation of the primary indicators of finance leases.
The Audit Committee also reviews the arrangements whereby staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
matters to ensure there are proportionate and independent procedures in place for such an occurrence.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 37 Independence of the external auditor Impact of the Competition Commission report The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the The Committee notes the latest guidance from the Financial external auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance Reporting Council following the report from the Competition with the Code.
The pre-approved services may be Commission issued on 15 October 2013.
Amongst other summarised as follows: things this requires the Audit Committee to: audit related services, including work related to the annual assume sole responsibility for audit matters such as Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and agreeing audit scope and audit fees, advising the Board on local statutory accounts: and the reappointment of external auditors and initiating tenders: certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, initiate a new advisory vote on the audit committee report: tax planning and tax advice.
mandatorily tender the external audit every ten years: note the increased frequency of reviews by the Financial Other work to be carried out by the external auditor is subject Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team and the to review by the Audit Committee.
To fulfil its responsibility public disclosure of the grade awarded following the review: regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit ensure compliance with the prohibition of Big Four only Committee takes into account the following: clauses in loan documentation.
the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the audit The Committee has reviewed the guidance and will report and who, in accordance with professional rules, implement these recommendations as required for the has not held office for more than five years: 2014 financial year.
the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee a report from the external auditor describing their has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts terms of reference.
The Committee has reviewed the of interest: independence and objectivity of Deloitte LLP as external the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor and recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held of the provision of non-audit services by the external on 15 May 2014. auditor: and the past service of the auditor who was first appointed On behalf of the Audit Committee, by formal tender in 2007.
Simon Cloke To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, Chairman of the Audit Committee the Audit Committee takes into account: 26 February 2014 the arrangements for ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the auditors conclusions with regard to existing management and control processes.
