48 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Leadership HOW THE BOARd OPERATEs CHAIRMAn And CHIEF ExECUTIvE The board brings leadership to the Group.
It does this through the development, The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with each having monitoring and review of the Groups strategy, guided by the executive clearly defined responsibilities.
Nonetheless, they maintain a close working directors to whom the board delegates the operational management of relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision making process the business.
It ensures that risks are effectively managed through robust and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
policies and procedures, supported by the right values and culture.
The Stuart Chambers is the chairman of the Company.
The chairman creates and boards primary focus is the sustainable long term success of the Group to manages a constructive dialogue between the executive and non executive deliver value for shareholders, taking into account other stakeholders.
He works with the company secretary to ensure that appropriate board does not routinely involve itself in day to day business decisions but matters are discussed during board meetings.
there is a formal schedule of matters that require the boards specific approval, Graham Chipchase is the chief executive of the Company.
He has responsibility as well as those which can be delegated to committees of the board or senior for leading the executive directors and the senior executive team in the day management.
The board retains responsibility for all such delegated matters.
to day management and ensures effective implementation of board decisions.
The fundamental matters reserved to the board are: The key responsibilities of both the chairman and the chief executive are board appointments and removals more fully described on page 49. the Groups strategy The written job specifications for the roles of chairman and chief executive are approved by the nomination committee.
acquisition and disposal of businesses material financial decisions relating to equity, marketable securities, nOn ExECUTIvE dIRECTORs borrowing facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in At the date of this annual report, Rexam has a non executive chairman and accounting policies or practice five other non executive directors, including a senior independent director, all of whom are considered to be independent.
Their collective role is to all capital expenditure projects over 20m or any capital expenditure understand the business and its markets, consider proposals on strategy and project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups constructively challenge management.
The non executive directors hold or financial criteria have held senior positions in industry and commerce, and contribute a wide significant contract approvals range of international experience and objective perspective to the board.
Through the board committees, the non executive directors bring focus and changes to the Groups management and control structures independence on governance and succession planning, internal controls, matters relating to the Companys share listing risk management and remuneration policies.
the appointment and removal of principal advisors and external auditors.
Johanna Waterous is the senior independent director and, if required, will deputise for the chairman.
She is available to talk to shareholders if they The board considers all matters in an open and transparent environment have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that whereby all directors have unrestricted access to information and management.
shareholders believe should be brought to her attention.
The board works as a team but independence of thought and approach as well as constructive debate are encouraged.
This collective vision of the The chairman schedules meetings with the non executive directors in Companys purpose, its values, culture and the behaviours the board addition to the planned board and committee meetings to discuss, on promotes, forms the foundation of strong corporate governance.
a less formal basis, the Groups performance, governance, strategy and board succession plans.
The executive directors are not in attendance at BOARd MEMBERsHIP And MEETInGs 2013 these meetings.
1 Attendance Non executive directors serve the Company under contracts for services Stuart Chambers chairman 7 7 which are generally for an initial three year term.
On appointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that the non executive director has Graham Chipchase 7 7 sufficient time to fulfil his or her role on the board and any new directorships John Langston 7 7 are subject to approval and notification to the board.
Leo Oosterveer 7 7 2 Ros Rivaz 5 5 David Robbie 7 7 Jean-Pierre Rodier 7 7 Johanna Waterous 7 7 David Gibson company secretary 7 7 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the director could have attended.
2 Appointed to the board on 12 June 2013.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 49 GOvERnAnCE FRAMEWORK The Company operates through the board and its main board committees, namely the audit and risk, the nomination and the remuneration committees.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that the committees have a different non executive director as their chairman.
The board committees are governed by terms of reference which detail the matters delegated to each committee and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms of reference for the board committees can be found on the Rexam website.
shareholders The chairman key responsibilities leads the board reviews the effectiveness of the board promotes a culture of openness, challenge and debate ensures compliance with Group policies concerning the conduct of the business monitors progress towards the timely and effective implementation and achievement of the objectives, policies and strategies set by the board provides guidance to the executive directors and senior management ensures that the board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience safeguards the interests of shareholders.
and diversity, and gives consideration to succession planning The board key responsibilities overall direction of the Groups strategy and the long term success of the Groups business.
For the boards discussions during 2013 see page 50.
Audit and risk committee nomination committee Remuneration committee Chief executive Key objectives: to ensure the key responsibilities Key objectives: to monitor the Key objectives: to determine the integrity and the effectiveness of board is effective and comprises policy on executive remuneration, enhances long term the Groups financial and business individuals with a diverse balance shareholder value the remuneration arrangements reporting, the performance of of skills, knowledge and experience, for the directors and senior develops and manages the Group the internal and external audit and to develop succession plans management and policy for the and its trading performance functions, internal control policies for the refreshment of the board.
Groups annual and long term within the authorities delegated and the Groups procedures for For further details see pages incentives.
For further details by the board identification, assessment and 52 and 53. see pages 62 to 79. develops and delivers the reporting of risk.
For further Groups strategic plan as details see pages 54 to 59. agreed by the board ensures the timely and effective implementation of the objectives, Executive leadership team ELT policies and strategies set by the board The ELT comprises 10 members Graham Chipchase david Gibson Oliver Graham leads executive management being the Groups most senior Chief executive Legal Marketing and ensures that management business and functional executives.
Rich Grimley Marc Hmel Craig Jones has the appropriate balance of Key objectives: to focus on the Beverage Can North Healthcare Beverage Can Africa, skills and experience implementation of the Groups America Middle East & Asia oversees the Groups strategy, financial structure performance in safety, health Carlos Medeiros Iain Percival david Robbie and planning, organisational and environmental matters Beverage Can South Beverage Can Europe Finance director development and policies and America to review the Groups financial is the primary interface and competitive performance.
with shareholders nikki Rolfe Human resources promotes high standards of ethical business conduct.
50 Rexam Annual Report 2013 Leadership continued Board discussions 2013 to achieve our strategic priorities strategy Risk and governance discussed the strategy for each business sector with a focus on emerging markets considered the reports on matters discussed at audit and risk committee meetings discussed and approved the marketing of the Healthcare business for sale to reviewed the legal compliance arrangements, Code of Conduct and anti bribery support the strategic focus on beverage cans and corruption policies presented by the Group and business sectors discussed and agreed to acquire a controlling interest in beverage can maker discussed the Group risk management process, risk tracking and mitigation United Arab Can Manufacturing Limited reviewed the Group and business procedures and controls.
approved the capital expenditure for new beverage can lines in Chile and India, and line conversions in Brazil, Egypt and Turkey approved the build of a new beverage can plant in Switzerland to meet the growth demands of a key customer held a board strategy day to consider the focus of a beverage can business of the future considered research, development and innovation in relation to the strategic agenda to create and maximise value.
Budget and performance External environment Achieve best approved the Groups budget for considered reports on the performance 2014 and the strategic plan benchmarking of aluminium Build a to 2016 for supply and costs Customer winning expectations discussed plans to return cash to assessed the key issues affecting organisation shareholders following completion the business and the industry trends of the sale of the pharmaceutical discussed the developing devices and prescription retail macroeconomic environment packaging divisions of the in regions of operation.
Healthcare business delivering maintained oversight of the our strategy financial position of the Group and its performance against budget, forecast and market expectations approved the Groups full year and half year results and dividend policy Invest Ensure for value our future reviewed the performance of business segments drive operational reviewed the Groups long term excellence debt refinancing proposals.
stakeholder engagement People, culture and values engaged with private shareholders at the AGM held board meeting with the Beverage Can Africa, Middle East & Asia leadership team and visited the plants in Izmir and Cairo considered annual investor audit and feedback reviewed key management hires as part of organisation restructuring reviewed Rexams sustainability arrangements and programmes incorporating all aspects of corporate social responsibility reviewed health and safety arrangements to ensure the safety of our employees and customers engaged with institutional shareholders and investor bodies approved the appointment of a new independent non executive director received reports on meetings with customers and suppliers.
assessed the outcomes and action points from the 2013 employee engagement survey considered reports on matters discussed at nomination committee and remuneration committee meetings focused on the effectiveness of the board following an externally facilitated boardroom evaluation.
