46 Rexam Annual Report 2013 The board non executive director Executive director senior independent non executive director director Jean-Pierre Rodier 66 Graham Chipchase 51 Johanna Waterous Leo Oosterveer 54 Appointed 7June 2006 Chief executive CBE 56 Appointed 1September and will retire from the Appointed 1January 2010 Appointed 4May 2012 as 2011. board at the conclusion of as chief executive.
Joined the a non executive director and Committees senior independent director.
the AGM on 2 May 2014. board as finance director Nomination.
on 10February 2003 and Committees Committees was Group director plastic skills and business Audit and risk, nomination, Remuneration chairman, packaging from 2005. experience audit and risk, nomination.
Strong operational leader skills and business skills and business skills and business with global management experience experience experience experience and a track Comprehensive financial Significant international A leading expert in retail record in marketing, sales and operational knowledge, business experience and and customer relationship and strategy development proven leadership skills and an extensive knowledge management with wide gained both in Europe and a detailed understanding of the packaging and knowledge of the global Asia.
Currently leads the of Rexams businesses aluminium industries.
Johanna was global food service division and markets.
Previous Previous appointments awarded a CBE in 2013 for of Unilever PLC.
From 2002 appointments include include chairman and chief her services to supporting to 2006 he was chairman finance director of GKN plcs executive of Pechiney until its business growth.
A former chief executive of Unilever aerospace services business merger with Alcan in 2003, director of McKinsey, the in Thailand and Indochina.
and various positions chief executive of Union global management within the European and Minire and chairman consulting firm.
US subsidiaries of BOC and chief executive of Group plc.
Operational Other directorships MetalEurop France.
experience as Group Non executive director of director of Rexams plastic Other directorships RSA Insurance Group plc, packaging business.
Supervisory board Wm Morrison Supermarkets chairman of HIME SAS PLC and Shoppers Drug Other directorships Company secretary and advisor to Corporate Mart Corporation, chairman Non executive director david Gibson 51 Value Associates.
of Sandpiper CI Limited, of AstraZeneca PLC.
and a director of the RBG Kew Foundation.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 47 Executive director Chairman non executive director non executive director Board experience Manufacturing david Robbie 50 stuart Chambers 57 John Langston 64 Ros Rivaz 58 100% Finance director Appointed 1February Appointed 30October Appointed 12June 2013.
Acting senior Consumer Committees 2005. director and chairman independent director from Nomination, remuneration.
Finance skills and business experience Committees experience Strong financial, accounting, Nomination chairman.
Committees 38% Experience in technology, strategic and corporate Audit and risk chairman, skills and business sustainability and IT systems, Marketing finance experience and nomination, remuneration.
experience and expertise in driving skills.
Previous appointments 38% Extensive breadth of business skills and business efficiencies in manufacturing include chief financial officer experience, including experience processes and procurement Board diversity of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV experience of global A chartered accountant with in global organisations.
and finance director of International business to business markets.
international, commercial Currently chief technology CMG plc.
Previous appointments and corporate finance officer for Smith & Nephew Other directorships include group chief experience.
Previous appointments Women on Trustee of Aldeburgh Music executive of NSG Group, appointments include a include senior management the board and the St Johns Smith the Tokyo based global director of TI Group plc positions in ExxonMobil, ICI, Square Charitable Trust.
glass company, until 2009, prior to its acquisition Tate & Lyle and Diageo.
25% Previously a non executive and chief executive of by Smiths Group and Other directorships Board balance director of the BBC.
Pilkington PLC until its operational roles on the A member of the Council acquisition by NSG Group board of Smiths Group plc, Executive of the University of in 2006.
Also held senior and as finance director from Southampton.
positions at Mars Inc and 2006 until his retirement 25% a variety of European roles in May 2010. non executive at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Other directorships 75% Other directorships Non executive director Board tenure Chairman designate of of Inchcape plc.
ARM Holdings plc and a 01 year non executive director of 12% Tesco PLC.
24 years 38% 58 years 38% 912 years 12% Figures above as at the date of this report.
