Governance | Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The directors believe that the Board currently operates The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the effectively and that there is an appropriate balance between principles and provisions relating to good governance of UK the executive 37% and non-executive directors 63% and listed companies.
In this section we set out how we have that all the non-executive directors are fully independent of applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the management and independent in character and judgement.
As a UK listed company, Consideration of the Board balance is kept under regular the Company is required to state whether it has complied with review by the Nomination Committee.
the provisions of the Code and where the provisions have not Neither the Chairman nor the executive directors hold been complied with, to provide an explanation.
any other non-executive directorships or commitments The directors believe that the Company has been disclosable under the Code.
compliant with the Code provisions throughout the year Biographical details of the directors at the date of this ended 31 December 2013. report appear on pages 22 to 23 and details of their committee membership appear on page 25.
The Board, the Board balance and independence Board tenure as at Balance of directors as at The Board at the date of this report comprises three executive 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 directors and six non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
The three executive directors are Nick McKittrick, Chief Executive Officer, Peter Brooks-Johnson, Chief Operating 2 Officer and Robyn Perriss, Finance Director.
The non-executive 3 5 4 directors are Scott Forbes, Chairman, Jonathan Agnew, Senior 1 6 Independent Director, Colin Kemp, Ashley Martin, Judy Vezmar 1 and Peter Williams.
With the exception of Robyn Perriss, who was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2013 and Peter Williams who was appointed to the Board on 3 February 2014, all 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years Executive Chairman Nondirectors served throughout the year.
directors executive Ed Williams retired from the Board on 30 April 2013.
As directors part of the announced organisational changes Nick McKittrick Directors remuneration became Chief Executive Officer, Peter Brooks-Johnson The principles and details of directors remuneration and became Chief Operating Officer and Robyn Perriss joined the contractual arrangements are contained in the Directors Board as Finance Director.
For her appointment the Board Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 62. undertook a formal appointment process led by the Nomination Committee.
Re-election to the Board The Board has due regard for the benefits of diversity in its Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance membership, including gender, and strives to maintain the with the Articles of Association of the Company and the right balance.
All directors are of Rightmove Board members were female and the Board subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting was therefore aligned with the minimum target representation following their appointment and to re-election at intervals of level to be achieved by 2015, as recommended by the no more than three years in accordance with the Companys Davies Review.
However, following changes to the Code, all directors will seek re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Code provision B.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our governance framework Chairman The Board of Rightmove plc Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Senior management External auditors Board and Committee membership and attendance Any directors absence from Board meetings or meetings of The membership of the Committees of the Board and the Remuneration, Audit or Nomination Committees was attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the year previously agreed with the Chairman, the Chief Executive under review are set out in the table below: Officer or the Chairman of the relevant committee.
In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts meetings with the non-executive directors without the Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee executive directors being present when required.
Jonathan Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting Total meetings 9 8 5 3 of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was 1 Scott Forbes 9 7 N A 3 also reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
Nick McKittrick 9 N A N A N A Peter Brooks- 9 N A N A N A Operation of the Board Johnson The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall 2 Robyn Perriss 6 N A N A N A direction and control of the Group and has the powers and duties set out in the relevant laws of England and Wales and Jonathan Agnew 9 8 5 3 the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board is: 3 4 3 Colin Kemp 9 5 3 2 responsible for approving the Group strategy and ensuring 5 Ashley Martin 9 8 5 1 the successful implementation of projects and proposals: monitoring the operating performance of the Group in Judy Vezmar 9 8 5 3 pursuit of its objectives in the interest of maximising 6 Ed Williams 3 N A N A N A long-term shareholder value: 1 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has r equested that the accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
2 Robyn Perriss was appointed to the Boar d on 30 April 2013 and has business: and attended all Board meetings post her appointment.
responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting 3 Colin Kemp was appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination on our system of corporate governance.
Committees in March 2013 and has attended all meetings post his appointment.
4 Colin Kemp was invited to attend Audit Committee meetings on a guest basis.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters 5 Ashley Martin was invited to attend one Nomination Committee meeting on requiring specific approval.
6 Ed Williams resigned with effect from 30 April 2013. the approval of the annual business plan: review of Group strategy: changes to the Groups capital structure: approval of the dividend policy: acquisitions and disposals: appointment and removal of officers of the Company: approval of annual and half-year results and shareholder communications: and system of internal control and risk management.
Rightmove plc annual report 2013 25 Governance | Corporate governance report continued In addition to its formal business, the Board received a The Chief Executive Officer, Nick McKittrick, is responsible for: number of briefings and presentations from senior the management of the Groups business: management during the year covering a wide range of leading the executive and operational teams in developing topics across the range of the Groups businesses.
strategies and delivering results against defined targets to The Board normally schedules eight meetings each year enable the Group to meet its objectives: although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman: request of any director, if required.
In addition to formal Board and meetings, there is regular informal dialogue between all directors.
The Board receives meeting papers to allow sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents The Senior Independent Director, Jonathan Agnew, is beforehand.
If any director has a concern about any aspect of responsible for: the business conducted at any Board meeting, the Company acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: Secretary shall discuss this with the director concerned and deputising for the Chairman if required: record their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
The serving as an intermediary for other directors: Board receives monthly management and financial reports on being available to shareholders if they have concerns which they the operational and financial performance of the business have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of setting out actual and forecast financial performance against the Chairman and Chief Executive or other executive directors approved budgets in addition to other key performance for which such contact is inappropriate: and indicators.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports conducting an annual review of the performance of the and press releases relating to the Group.
Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
Key roles and responsibilities The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are The Company Secretary, Robyn Perriss, is responsible for: separate and there are clear written guidelines to support assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all the directors have their division of responsibilities.
full and timely access to relevant information: The Chairman, Scott Forbes, is responsible for: assists the Chairman by organising induction and training the leadership and governance of the Board: programmes: ensuring effectiveness of the Board: ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and effective communication with shareholders: and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, setting administers the process whereby directors have access to the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is independent advice on any matters relating to their available for discussions and that the Board receives responsibilities as directors and as members of the various sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear information.
committees of the Board at the Companys expense.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The duties of the Company Secretary continue to grow with Board evaluation the increase in size of the Groups activities and legislative The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews of its changes.
To assist in this area the Assistant Company own performance and also the performance of its committees Secretary coordinates and manages the provision of and individual directors.
Last year an externally facilitated company secretarial services and share plans to the review of the performance of the Board and its committees Group on behalf of Robyn Perriss and acts as Secretary was undertaken by Korn Ferry International.
to the Board, Remuneration and Nomination Committees For the year under review the Board conducted an internal to ensure that no conflicts of interest arise.
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors led by the Chairman and assisted by Board training the Assistant Company Secretary.
Board members were The breadth of management, financial and listed company invited to comment by exception and the feedback received experience of the non-executive directors is described in the was discussed by the Board together during the meeting held biographical details on pages 22 and 23 and demonstrates a in November 2013.
The Board considers that review shows range of business expertise that provides the right mix of that each director continues to contribute effectively and skills and experience given the size of the Group.
There are demonstrate commitment to the role with good working procedures in place for individual Board members to receive relationships and in particular a smooth transition by the induction and training tailored to their individual needs and to executive directors to their new roles.
No major areas were seek the advice and services of independent professional highlighted within this review process but the Board intends advisers, at the Groups expense, where specific expertise or to continue to develop themes on: training is required in furtherance of their duties.
non-executive director succession as further discussed on page 29: and Indemnification of directors creating additional opportunities for informal discussion The Articles of Association of the Company allow for a of key aspects of the business between Board members.
qualifying third party indemnity provision between the Company and its directors and officers, which remains in Relations with shareholders force at the date of this report.
The Group has also arranged The Board is accountable to shareholders for the directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal performance and activities of the Company and welcomes action against the directors.
Neither our indemnity nor the the opportunities to engage with shareholders.
insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Company has conducted regular dialogue with institutional The Group has written policies in compliance with an shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional internal code of securities dealings in relation to the process investors and research firms to discuss strategy, operating and timing for dealing in shares, which is equivalent to the performance and financial performance.
Contact in the UK Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The code applies is principally with the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance to all directors, other persons discharging managerial Director.
The Chairman also participates in the USA investor responsibility and other relevant employees.
Jonathan Agnew, Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders if they wish to supplement their communication, or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
Rightmove plc annual report 2013 27 Governance | Corporate governance report continued The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of those Board committees with an interest in the Company through reports from the Chief The Board has established three principal committees, the Executive Officer and the Finance Director, as well as reports Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the from the Companys joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
Nomination Committee to assist it in the execution of Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups its duties.
activities through the Annual and Half Year Reports and the All of these committees operate within written terms of investor relations section of its website, at plc.
co. uk, reference, which are reviewed annually, consistent with which provides details of all the directors, latest news, changes in legislation and best practice.
The Chairman including financial results, investor presentations and Stock of each Committee reports regularly to the Board.
Each of the Committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to obtain legal or other professional advice to assist in Conflicts of interest carrying out its duties.
No person other than a Committee In cases of doubt, the Chairman of the Board is responsible member is entitled to attend the meetings of these Committees, for determining whether a conflict of interest exists.
except by invitation of the Chairman of that Committee.
Current membership of the Committees is shown on Annual General Meeting page 25.
The composition of these Committees is reviewed The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for regularly, taking into consideration the recommendations of shareholders to vote on certain aspects of the Companys the Nomination Committee.
business, and to ask questions of the directors, who will also be available for discussions with shareholders prior to and Remuneration Committee after the meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is on 7 May 2014 at the offices of UBS Limited at 1 Finsbury for setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
the remuneration policy and strategy to ensure that the The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and related Companys executive directors and senior management are papers to be available on the Companys corporate website properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual at plc.
co. uk or posted to shareholders where contributions to the Companys overall performance, having requested so as to allow at least 20 working days for due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the consideration before the Annual General Meeting.
financial and commercial health of the Group.
Full details of The Company also complies with the Code with the the Remuneration Committees responsibilities, and a report separation of all resolutions put to the vote of shareholders.
of its activities during the year, are set out in the Directors The Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote at Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 62. general meetings by providing electronic voting for shareholders who hold their shares through the Crest system Nomination Committee and provides personalised proxy cards to ensure that all votes The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider are clearly identifiable.
The Company presently takes votes and make recommendations to the Board about the at general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds of composition of the Board, including proposed appointees, practicality due to the limited number of shareholders in and whether to fill any vacancies that arise or to change attendance.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder the number of Board members.
All proxy votes are counted The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes and the level of proxy votes including abstentions lodged for who is also Chairman of the Board, Jonathan Agnew, each resolution are reported after each resolution and Judy Vezmar and Colin Kemp as independent non-executive published on the Companys website.
The quorum for meetings of the Nomination Committee is two members.
The Chairman of the Company 28 www.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements may not chair the Nomination Committee in connection with Audit Committee any discussion about the appointment of his successor to the chairmanship of the Company.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent Director will take the chair.
Appointments are for a period of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may Ashley Martin be necessary and normally meets at least twice a year.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The Nomination Committees terms of reference are The Audit Committee the Committee is an essential part of available on the Companys corporate website, Rightmoves governance framework to which the Board has plc.
co. uk or by request from the Company Secretary.
delegated oversight of the Groups financial reporting, internal controls and compliance and the quality of the external audit During the year the Nomination Committee has: process.
The Committee also regularly reviews and considers approved the organisation structure: the requirement for an internal audit function within the Group.
approved the plans for the succession of the executive As part of the process of working with the Board and to directors and senior management: maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee generally agreed the process for the Boards annual evaluation: take place just prior to the Company Board meetings and I considered the diversity of the Board and agreed the report to the Board as a separate agenda item on the activities policy regarding gender composition on the Board: and of the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
Board in the conduct of their work.
Amongst our normal activities, the key focus of the The Nomination Committee is planning for Board Committee over the last year has been the audit tender and succession, in response to the fact that the Chairman and the implementation of a new financial reporting system.
three of the non-executive directors are currently in their This report provides an overview of the work of the Committee third term of service to the Board.
Following Phase 2 of the and details how it has discharged its duties during the year.
independent Board evaluation conducted in 2012, a plan was implemented to ensure that any new appointments are tiered such that succession does not cause disruption to the business.
To this extent Korn Ferry International, an executive search firm, which conducted the 2012 external Board evaluation, commenced a search for two new non-executive directors: one with digital media and mobile experience and the other with significant plc board experience, to ensure that the refreshment process is flexible and fluid and maintains stability and continuity of relevant skills and experience.
In February 2014, we appointed Peter Williams to the Board as a non-executive director, who brings with him Ashley Martin significant plc executive and non-executive experience.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Rightmove plc annual report 2013 29 Governance | Corporate governance report continued Composition and attendance at meetings Main activities of the Committee during the year The principal activities of the Audit Committee through the Committee members Number of meetings attended year, and the manner in which it discharged its responsibilities Ashley Martin 5 out of 5 were as follows: Judy Vezmar 5 out of 5 Jonathan Agnew 5 out of 5 Financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting The Committee is comprised entirely of independent is to review with both management and the external auditor the non-executive directors, the biographical details which can be appropriateness of the half year results statement and the annual found on pages 22 to 23.
The Board is satisfied that Ashley report and financial statements including, amongst other matters: Martin has recent and relevant financial skills and experience the quality and appropriateness of accounting policies necessary to fulfill his role as Chairman of the Committee.
and practices: The Finance Director and Financial Controller are normally the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with relevant invited to attend the meetings as well as the external auditor, financial reporting standards and governance reporting KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
Other relevant people from the requirements: business are also invited to attend certain meetings in order key accounting issues or matters in which significant to provide a deeper level of insight into certain key issues and judgements have been applied: and developments.
During the year Colin Kemp, non-executive whether the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is director, attended three meetings by invitation.
The Committee fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information regularly meets separately with the external auditors and the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Finance Director without others being present.
performance, business model and strategy.
The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period Following the publication of the revised version of the UK of up to three years, extendable by no more than two Corporate Governance Code, which is applicable for financial additional three year periods, so long as members continue years commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board to be independent.
requested that the Committee advise them on whether the The Audit Committees principal duties and terms of annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, reference are available on the Companys corporate website, balanced and understandable and provides the information plc.
co. uk, or by request from the Company Secretary.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Audit tender KPMG has been the Groups auditors since 2000.
Following The significant areas of judgement considered by the the 2012 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code by Committee in relation to the 2013 Annual Report and how the Financial Reporting Council, a decision was made by these were addressed were: the Committee to formally tender the provision of audit and taxation services to the Group.
A comprehensive tender Revenue recognition and review process was concluded in March 2013.
The The timing of revenue recognition in relation to the billing of Committee was satisfied that the skills and depth of industry subscription fees and additional products and the accounting knowledge in the team remained very strong and combined for any membership offers to customers with discounted or with the fresh perspective of the new audit partner decided free periods.
This was a prime area of audit focus with KPMG that KPMG should be re-appointed as the Groups auditor.
performing detailed analytical procedures using computer The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner assisted audit techniques throughout the year on amounts responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current billed to the two largest customer groups estate agency and lead audit partner has been in place for one year.
new homes developers, investigating any anomalies and outliers identified and providing detailed reporting to the Committee in this regard.
In addition the Committee received a report from management discussing current membership offers and their impact on revenue recognition.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Share-based incentives and the related deferred a detailed audit plan, identifying their assessment of key risks.
tax balances For the 2013 financial year the primary risks identified were in It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee to relation to revenue recognition due to the size of the customer address, and report upon, compensation matters including base and the variety of contract terms and share-based share-based incentives granted to directors and employees incentives and the related deferred tax balances due to the of the Group.
However the Committee considers in its review technical complexity and inherent management judgement of the financial statements the measurement and accounting required in these areas.
The Committee challenged the work treatment relating to such schemes as more fully explained in performed by the external auditors to test managements Note 24 to the accounts due to the technical complexity and assumptions and estimates around these areas.
The judgement required in establishing the IFRS 2 charge.
Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the audit Schemes subject to external performance conditions were process in addressing these matters through the reporting it valued using the Monte Carlo model by the Companys received from the auditors at both the half year and year end.
remuneration advisors, New Bridge Street, an Aon Hewitt In addition they also sought feedback from management on Company.
They also provided an external source of key the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2013 financial inputs used to calculate the initial fair value of new grants, year, management were satisfied that there had been such as volatility, dividend yield and risk free rates and key appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit management assumptions such as leaver provisions and risk and the Committee concurred with this view.
achievement of performance conditions were reviewed and The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to discussed by the Committee.
safeguard audit objectivity and independence as well as the The assumptions used in calculating the closing needs of the business and agreed that it was practical in deferred tax asset were reviewed and the reasons for the many cases for the auditor to be assigned to other non-audit decrease discussed and the financial disclosures reviewed project work due to their knowledge and expertise of the by the Committee.
This would usually relate to corporate transaction As these are both areas of higher audit risk the Committee advice and tax compliance.
The Committee agreed a policy also received detailed verbal and written reporting from that management be given authority to incur non-audit fees KPMG on this matter.
up to 50% of the annual agreed audit and tax fee in any financial year without the prior approval of the Committee.
Internal audit In 2013 the non-audit fees were 22,000 in relation to other Given the simplicity of the Group structure, its single country advisory services and were 12,000 in relation to tax focus, the open and accountable culture with clear authority compliance and advice and are fully disclosed in Note 6 limits, the straightforward financial model, strong system of of the financial statements.
internal controls, the fact that management and the Board conduct regular financial reviews and that the likely costs Internal controls would be disproportionate to the anticipated benefit, the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Committee recommended to the Board that an internal internal controls and has established a framework of financial audit function was not currently appropriate for the business.
and other controls which is periodically reviewed in This decision will be kept under regular review and where accordance with the FRC Internal Control: Guidance to appropriate extended assurance will also be sought in key Directors publication formerly known as the Turnbull areas, as set out below for 2013.
The Board has taken, and will continue to take, External audit appropriate measures to ensure that the chances of financial The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably on a number of factors including the quality assurance possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in processes within the audit firm and appropriate audit risk the Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Committee has the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
Any system of reviewed, through the 2013 audit tender process, the quality internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate assurance procedures and the skills and expertise of the audit the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only team and are satisfied that these continue to be of a high provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against standard.
In connection with risk evaluation KPMG submitted material misstatement or loss.
Rightmove plc annual report 2013 31 Governance | Corporate governance report continued The Groups management have established the procedures Through the procedures outlined above, the Board, necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for with advice from the Audit Committee, has considered all identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the significant aspects of internal control for the year and up Group.
These procedures have been in place for the whole of to the date of this Annual Report.
No significant failings or the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the weaknesses were identified during this review.
However, date of the approval of these financial statements and they had there been any such failings or weaknesses, the Board are reviewed regularly.
confirms that necessary actions would have been taken to During 2013, the Audit Committee requested extended remedy them.
assurance over a number of areas.
These included the implementation and controls over the Groups new finance Going concern system, SAP Business 1, which was implemented during the The Board is required under the Code to consider whether year and a review of business continuity and disaster recovery or not it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in plans.
There was also a review of the Groups current preparing the Group and the Company financial statements.
activities and controls in relation to potential cyber security As part of its normal business practice the Group prepares threats, which are considered to be an ongoing risk to an annual and longer term financial plans.
In addition, a going online business.
The outcome of both of these reviews concern paper was prepared and presented to the Audit provided high levels of assurance with a small number of Committee in February 2014 prior to it recommending the follow up actions identified.
approval of the financial statements and notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 to the Board.
The key elements of the system of internal control are: After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate are formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed cash resources and banking facilities to continue in with the executive directors, after which they are considered operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, by the Board: the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
This includes monthly information is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
management reporting and monitoring of performance against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for all significant variances: an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: a comprehensive disaster recovery plan based upon co-hosting of the rightmove.
co. uk website across three separate locations, which is regularly tested and reviewed: a treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts and cash on deposit and counterparty risk and is responsible for monitoring compliance with banking agreements, where appropriate: and whistleblowing and bribery policies of which all employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside the line management.
