DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to comply with The board the regulatory obligations associated with its three principal stock exchange Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
The directors are responsible for the success of the Group and, through the independent oversight of management, are accountable to shareholders for Statement of compliance with governance codes and the performance of the business.
standards in 2013 Role and responsibilities In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the September The principal role of the board is to set the Groups strategy and to review 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the ASX regularly its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also has responsibility Corporate Governance Councils Corporate Governance Principles and for corporate governance.
Recommendations 2nd edition with 2010 amendments the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Standards A formal schedule of matters reserved by the board has been established the NYSE Standards.
This covers areas such as the Groups strategy, major investments, acquisitions and divestments and oversight of risk.
It is available Throughout 2013, and at the date of this report, the Group applied the on the website.
principles of, and was compliant with the provisions of, the ASX Principles and with the Code.
Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the chief executive and the Executive Committee.
In turn, authorities are Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed also delegated to individual members of the Executive Committee.
on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ from the NYSE Standards.
As part of the annual financial planning process, the board sets annual performance targets, which include personal and business performance The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its practices measures, under the Groups short-term incentive plan detailed on page 81 are broadly consistent with them, with the following exceptions where the strict for the chief executive.
These performance targets are determined by the requirements of the NYSE Standards are not met.
Remuneration Committee on behalf of the board.
The chief executive The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating corporate establishes targets for the Executive Committee.
Those objectives are governance committee composed entirely of independent directors which, cascaded throughout management teams.
in addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board members, Further details of the performance evaluation of the executive directors and develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance other senior executives are discussed in the Implementation Report section principles applicable to the company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations Committee, of the Remuneration Report on page 80. information about which is set out on page 63.
This committee does not develop corporate governance principles for the boards approval.
The board Board balance and independence itself performs this task.
Board composition Under US securities law and the NYSE Standards, the company is required The names, skills and experience of each director together with their terms in to have an audit committee that is directly responsible for the appointment, office are shown in the biographical details on pages 53 to 54.
Details of compensation, retention and oversight of the work of external auditors.
While changes to the board during 2013 and in the year to date are set out in the the Rio Tinto Audit Committee makes recommendations to the board on these Directors report on page 44. matters, the ultimate responsibility for the appointment of the external auditors Director independence rests with the shareholders.
The tests of independence of a non-executive director vary between the A discussion of the Groups position on audit tenders is set out on page 62 jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings.
The board has adopted a formal of this report.
policy for the determination of the independence of its non-executive directors which is available on the Groups website.
Further information about the corporate governance framework is available in the Corporate governance section of Rio Tintos website.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from management and the absence of any business relationship which could materially interfere with the directors independence of judgment and ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards deliberations, or which could interfere with the directors ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for materiality both to the Group, and the other party to the contract.
Material is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than two per cent of either partys consolidated gross revenue per annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
The Code includes criteria to assess independence where a director has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
The chairman was considered independent upon his appointment under the Code, and in the boards view he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
Applying the criteria of the independence policy, the board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors are and remain independent.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued Lord Kerr, Richard Goodmanson and Vivienne Cox have been non-executive of Rio Tinto Limited.
The directors are also able to obtain independent Directors membership of, and attendance at, board and committee meetings during 2013 directors since 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.
Lord Kerr and Richard professional advice at the Groups expense.
Board Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans Goodmanson have both agreed to stand for re-election to the boards at the e e e e e e e scheduled short notice Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The chairman and non-executive directors meet, at the start of each board annual general meetings in 2014.
The board considers that Lord Kerr and meeting, without the executive directors, to create an opportunity for nonJan du Plessis 9 9 2 2 8 8 8 8 18 18 Richard Goodmanson will provide continuity to the board, given their significant a executive directors to raise any issues in private session.
1 1 Tom Albanese knowledge of the business and has confirmed that they both continue to satisfy b the tests for independence in carrying out their respective roles.
Vivienne Cox In addition, the directors are in regular informal communication with members 9 9 2 2 6 7 Guy Elliott c is not seeking re-election at the annual general meetings.
of the Executive Committee and other members of senior management.
This 9 9 2 2 2 2 1 1 13 14 Chris Lynch helps to foster an open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
d 9 9 2 2 18 18 Executive directors other directorships Sam Walsh Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other All new non-executive directors undertake a full, formal and tailored induction Robert Brown 8 9 2 2 5 5 8 8 companies.
The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the board, operates on joining the board.
The board is provided with training and development Vivienne Cox 8 9 2 2 5 5 7 8 a procedure under which approval may be given to accept such invitations, opportunities during the year.
The directors are also encouraged to participate f 8 8 Michael Fitzpatrick 9 9 2 2 7 7 7 8 recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from in site visits to the Groups operations around the world and to meet with Ann Godbehere 9 9 2 2 7 7 8 8 such appointments.
employees and, from time to time, shareholders and other key stakeholders.
In 2013, the board visited our copper mine in Utah, US and our iron ore operations Richard Goodmanson 9 9 2 2 8 8 5 5 8 8 Election and re-election in the Pilbara, Western Australia.
These events are arranged by the company Lord Kerr 9 9 2 2 3 3 5 5 8 8 The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the secretary on behalf of the chairman, and seek to ensure directors have Paul Tellier 8 9 2 2 7 7 8 8 8 8 year.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders appropriate knowledge of the company and access to its operations and staff.
at the first annual general meetings after their appointment.
In subsequent John Varley 9 9 2 2 4 4 8 8 8 8 years, the directors are expected to submit themselves for re-election at the Progress against our priorities a Stood down from the board on 17 January 2013. annual general meetings each year.
The progress made towards achieving the priorities set by the board during b Resigned from Chairmans Committee with effect from 18 April 2013 and retired from the board with effect from 31 December 2013.
Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years and c Appointed chief financial officer-designate on 1 March 2013, at which time Chris Lynch resigned from the Audit Committee and joined the Chairmans Committee.
would not normally serve more than nine years.
Annual performance evaluation d Appointed chief executive on 17 January 2013.
An annual exercise is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the board, Lord Kerr and Richard Goodmanson have been non-executive directors since e Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended.
board committees and individual directors.
2003 and 2004 respectively, and have therefore already served for ten and f The meeting missed was called on short notice for 15 January 2013. nine years respectively.
For the reasons noted above, both offer themselves For 2013, the board and committee audit, nominations, remuneration and for re-election in 2014. sustainability evaluation process was conducted by the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc.
On 5 March 2014, Rio Tinto announced the appointments of Anne Lauvergeon and Simon Thompson effective 15 March and 1 April respectively.
Both The process involved a review of the findings of the  2012 will offer themselves for election at the annual general meetings in 2014 evaluations of the board and its committees and interviews conducted with and further details about them are set out in the notices of annual directors seeking their views with regard to progress on the actions arising general meetings.
and generally upon the performance of the board and its committees in 2013.
Governance processes The findings from the evaluation reports for the board and its committees were In 2013, there were nine scheduled board meetings and two board meetings discussed with the chairman and the chairmen of the committees ahead of convened and held at short notice.
Details of the directors attendance at a full review at the February 2014 meetings of the board and its committees.
all of the board and committee meetings held in 2013 are set out on the Actions for 2014 were agreed at those meetings.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, were The board has regular discussions with senior management on the Groups responsible for the performance evaluation of the chairman.
These discussions typically include presentations given by senior directors met to give their views and the senior independent director also management during the year.
The board attends an annual two-day strategy sought the views of the executive directors.
The senior independent director meeting with the Executive Committee, which includes broader, detailed review gave feedback on the chairmans performance to him in January.
sessions on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from this event help underpin the boards annual financial planning exercise and provide strategic The chairman continues to be responsible for the assessment of each individual direction and focus to the Executive Committee.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
They also have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and the joint company secretaries 58 59 58 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors membership of, and attendance at, board and committee meetings during 2013 Board Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans e e e e e e e scheduled short notice Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Jan du Plessis 9 9 2 2 8 8 8 8 18 18 a Tom Albanese 1 1 b 9 9 2 2 6 7 Guy Elliott c 9 9 2 2 2 2 1 1 13 14 Chris Lynch d 9 9 2 2 18 18 Sam Walsh Robert Brown 8 9 2 2 5 5 8 8 Vivienne Cox 8 9 2 2 5 5 7 8 f 8 8 Michael Fitzpatrick 9 9 2 2 7 7 7 8 Ann Godbehere 9 9 2 2 7 7 8 8 Richard Goodmanson 9 9 2 2 8 8 5 5 8 8 Lord Kerr 9 9 2 2 3 3 5 5 8 8 Paul Tellier 8 9 2 2 7 7 8 8 8 8 John Varley 9 9 2 2 4 4 8 8 8 8 a Stood down from the board on 17 January 2013. b Resigned from Chairmans Committee with effect from 18 April 2013 and retired from the board with effect from 31 December 2013. c Appointed chief financial officer-designate on 1 March 2013, at which time Chris Lynch resigned from the Audit Committee and joined the Chairmans Committee.
d Appointed chief executive on 17 January 2013. e Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended.
f The meeting missed was called on short notice for 15 January 2013.
com reportingcentre2013 Corporate governance continued Governance structure The board has established sub-committees which are responsible for audit, The committees are governed by terms of reference, set and approved by remuneration, sustainability and nominations issues.
In addition, a Chairmans the board, which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference of the audit, Committee operates under delegated authority between scheduled board nominations, remuneration and sustainability committees revised versions meetings.
These committees support the board in ensuring that high of which were issued in February 2014 can be viewed in the Corporate standards of corporate governance are maintained across the Group.
governance section of the website.
The chief executive is assisted by the key management committees noted below in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tintos strategy.
Board of directors Sustainability Remuneration Nominations Chairmans Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief executive Disclosure Investment Executive Closure Ore Reserves Risk Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Steering Committee Committee Board committees Management committees 60 60 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Board committees Key judgments considered In preparing the financial statements, a number of subjective judgments Audit Committee and estimates are required involving assumptions and consideration of future Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere chairman, Michael Fitzpatrick, events that are inherently uncertain.
The Committee focused its work on Paul Tellier and John Varley.
Chris Lynch was appointed to the Committee on assessing managements ongoing judgments and estimates against available 1 June 2012 and stood down upon his appointment as chief financial officerevidence, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Lord Kerr stood down from the Committee at the Committee also considered the external auditors views on these matters.
conclusion of its meeting on 4 March 2013.
John Varley was appointed to the Committee on 19 March 2013.
Of the judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty listed as critical accounting policies and estimates in note 1 to the financial statements, the Key responsibilities following areas received specific focus from the Committee over the year: The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the board to monitor decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting, sound Impairment review of asset carrying values systems of internal control and risk management.
The Committee focused on the assessment of the carrying value and annual impairment reviews of goodwill Rio Tinto Alcan, Rio Tinto The Committees terms of reference set out its main responsibilities.
Coal Mozambique and Oyu Tolgoi, indefinite lived intangible assets The Committee is responsible for: Rio Tinto Alcan and property, plant & equipment particularly Financial reporting: Rio Tinto Alcan, Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique and Oyu Tolgoi because Internal control, including internal control over financial reporting: they involve complex judgments about the expected future performance Group Audit & Assurance including internal audit : of the business.
External auditors: The assumptions on discount rate, long-term pricing, risk factors for future growth projects amongst others were considered and challenged.
Risk management system effectiveness: For Rio Tinto Alcan, and in addition to the testing of individual cash The integrity and compliance programme including the Groups generating units the Committee considered the combined carrying value SpeakOUT whistleblowing programme.
of the product group and how it had been assessed against external In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committee has full authority to market data, including comparables and broker reports.
investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference.
Accordingly, Infrastructure assumptions were a key consideration for the Rio Tinto the Committee may: Coal Mozambique impairment testing and the Committee considered these closely.
obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of the Group: and For Oyu Tolgoi, the timing of the underground development was an have direct access to the resources of the Group as it may reasonably important factor in determining impairment, and the Committee reviewed and challenged the likely timing in light of the progress of discussions require including the external and internal auditors.
with the Government of Mongolia.
Financial reporting During 2013 the Committee considered, among others, the following matters Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations which it considered to be significant in relation to the 2013 financial statements: The Committee focused on the estimates of risk free discount rates in light of the ongoing impact of fiscal interventions.
It also focused on the Impairments in the 2012 accounts and continued monitoring of probability weighting, where appropriate, of the different remediation managements determination of cash-generating units, review of impairment or closure outcomes which could realistically arise when assessing triggers and consideration of potential impairment charges and reversals the adequacy of the provisioning for these obligations.
Both involve over the course of the year.
Managements key accounting judgments and policies, and the application Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets of these in the accounts, including: the adoption of new and revised accounting standards including IFRIC 20, The Committee focused on the appropriateness of continued recognition IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 19R that became effective in 2013 and required of deferred tax assets, particularly those related the Mineral Resources prior period restatements: and Rent Tax starting base allowance in Australia and tax losses in France, recovery of which are restricted by legislation accounting for the slide at the Bingham Canyon copper mine.
In addition, the Committee critically assessed the future projections of cash To date in 2014 the Committee has considered, among others, the flow under different future scenarios and compared this to cash balances following matters which it considered to be significant in relation to the 2013 and committed facilities available so the Committee could recommend to the financial statements: board that the adoption by the Group of the going concern basis of preparation Impairments in the 2013 accounts.
Managements key accounting judgments and policies, and the application Governance processes of these in the accounts, including: The Committee met seven times in 2013.
The chairman of the board, chief reviewing the justifications for exclusion of certain items from underlying financial officer, other senior management and external and internal auditors earnings: regularly attended its meetings.
The Committee carries out its business reviewing the impact of new standards including IFRS 12 and IFRS 13 following an agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics for consideration.
which have required additional disclosure in these financial statements: The members of the Committee are independent and free of any relationship reviewing the Groups tax exposure and the appropriateness of provisions that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
The for uncertain tax positions: and members meet the independence requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles reviewing the accounting treatment of the significant divestments and the NYSE Standards.
The Committee meets the composition, operation and announced in 2013, including contractual obligations for product sales responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles.
and funding of closure activities which remain with the Group following The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees completion of the divestments.
financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least one committee member should have recent and relevant financial qualifications and 61 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Corporate governance continued experience.
Ann Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, is considered by the Further information on fees paid to PwC in 2013 for audit and non-audit board to have recent and relevant financial experience, and financial services are set out on page 46 of the Directors report.
qualifications, and has been designated the Committees financial expert.
The Committee meets privately with the Head of Group Audit & Assurance from All other members of the Committee are, in the opinion of the Committee, time to time without management present and the chairman of the Committee deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
has regular discussions with him.
The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services Other provided by the Groups external auditors PwC.
All of the engagements for In 2013 the Committee also: services provided by PwC were either within the pre-approval policies or approved by the Committee.
The Committee members are satisfied that the Conducted an ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups control provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is environment and risk management processes and effectiveness, including: compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed a review of Group Audit & Assurance findings and approval of Internal by relevant regulations, including Australian, UK and US legislation.
Audit Plan and associated resources for 2014 The Committee considered reports from PwC and Group Audit & Assurance monitoring of Internal Control over Financial Reporting SOx testing on the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment results in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
review of reports at the half year and towards the end of the year from This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls the Head of Group Compliance over financial reporting and the Groups disclosure controls and procedures monitoring of Risk Management activities and the effectiveness of the in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
Groups risk management system The external auditors attended all seven Committee meetings during the year.
monitoring Legal and Tax disputes In advance of the Committee meetings, the audit partners brief the chairman monitoring Closure provisioning and Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves on key matters.
Private sessions are routinely held between PwC and the reporting.
Committee without management present to discuss the status of the audit Underwent training and development on accounting and governance topics, and nature of interaction with management.
with a dedicated session on IFRIC interpretation 20 Stripping Costs in the During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC for Group Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
audit and local statutory audit work.
The evaluation, managed by the Groups Considered the requirements for the Annual report and accounts, taken as financial controllers, took the form of a survey comprising a range of questions a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and put in place processes covering objectivity, quality, and efficiency, and was completed by individual to seek to ensure they are.
Rio Tinto business units and members of the Audit Committee.
The results of this survey and review were assessed by the Committee which concluded that Reviewed the controls and processes in place over reporting of cost savings PwC continued to provide a high-quality audit and an effective and independent achieved under the Groups cost reduction programme.
The Committee was satisfied with the external audit Considered the findings from the 2012 external evaluation of the process and that the independence of the external auditors was in no way Committees performance and implemented the recommendations.
Conducted ongoing monitoring of non-statutory audit activities performed PwC have been the external auditors since the formation of the dual listed by the Groups external auditors and approval of their audit engagement companies DLC structure in 1995, and acted as external auditors to a number contracts and remuneration.
of the companys legacy entities prior to the formation of the DLC.
Since 2002, Considered proposals from various regulators including the Financial PwC have followed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and APB Reporting Council and Competition Commission on Auditor Independence Ethical Standards and rotated both the lead UK and Australian audit partners at and the Audit Committees responsibilities in this regard.
This continued refreshing of the team brings new In the first part of 2014, the Committee: perspectives to the audit and promotes healthy debate between auditors and management as well as the Committee.
The current UK audit engagement Evaluated, at the request of the board, the Annual report and accounts partner, Richard Hughes, was appointed for the 2011 year-end and therefore 2013, to assess whether they are, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and 2015 will be his last year of involvement before transition to a new engagement understandable.
The Australian audit engagement partner, Paul Bendall, was appointed Considered findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees for the 2012 year-end and therefore 2016 will be his last year of involvement performance and agreed the actions arising.
before transition to a new engagement partner.
During the remainder of 2014 the Committee will follow its annual schedule The Committee continues to be satisfied both with the quality and effectiveness of meetings and topics for discussion and will report on the same in 2015. of the external audit process and with PwCs independence.
The Committee also continues to monitor the recent developments on audit market reform, Sustainability Committee including proposed mandatory audit firm rotation in Europe and proposed Members of the Committee are Richard Goodmanson chairman, audit tendering from the Competition Commission in the UK.
The provisional Robert Brown, Vivienne Cox, and Lord Kerr.
agreement that was reached between the European institutions in December Key responsibilities 2013 is likely when the European legislative processes have been completed, The Committee assists the board with overseeing strategies designed to and subject to agreement by the UK regulators to require mandatory rotation manage social and environmental risks, overseeing management processes of audit firms every ten years unless there is a tender process after ten years, and standards and achieving compliance with social and environmental in which case the audit firm must be replaced after 20 years at the latest.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness The Committee intends to review the position once the transitional of management policies and procedures relating to safety, health, employment arrangements under the different regimes have been clarified which is practices, relationships with neighbouring communities, environment, human expected to occur later this year and will determine when it expects to oversee rights, land access, political involvement and sustainable development.
an orderly tender process in due course.
PwC will thus remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them for the 2014 audit will therefore be proposed at the annual general meetings in 2014.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance processes Nominations Committee In 2013, the Committee met five times.
The chairman of the board, chief Members of the Committee comprise Jan du Plessis chairman and all executive, and other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
Committee carries out its business following an agreed annual cycle of Key responsibilities meetings and topics for consideration.
The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly assessing The members of the Committee are all independent in accordance with the the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the composition of independence policy adopted by the board.
the board in terms of the diversity and capacity required to oversee the delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
2013 activities In 2012 we said that the Committee would: The Committee develops and agrees in advance the desired profiles of potential candidates for board membership.
It oversees the recruitment Review key risks associated with mine closures and legacy matters, process and engages external search consultants to manage searches on its communities and social performance and energy, environment and climate behalf, including constructing shortlists comprising candidates from diverse change and managements plans for tackling them: backgrounds.
Following a final review of shortlisted candidates, the Committee Review work plans formulated for health, safety, environment, communities makes recommendations for new board members to the board for approval.
and employment practices: On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for appointments Undertake deep dives around major risk areas, including through site visits.
to the Executive Committee and monitors executive succession planning.
The Committee did all of the above and in particular visited the site of the Governance processes Manefay slide at Bingham Canyon Utah in September.
The Committee meets as required and in 2013, met eight times.
The members We draw to your attention the Sustainable development report on pages 18 of the Committee are independent in accordance with the independence policy to 24 of this report.
Remuneration Committee The Committee in its proceedings takes account of the Groups Diversity & Members of the Committee are John Varley chairman, Jan du Plessis, Inclusion policy and progress in the diversity and inclusion arena, discussed Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson and Paul Tellier.
Key responsibilities In 2013, the Committee: The Remuneration Committee assists the board with fulfilling its oversight Continued regular executive and non-executive succession planning reviews.
In particular, the Committee seeks to spend Recommended to the board the appointments of Sam Walsh and compensation resource fairly and responsibly to ensure that remuneration Chris Lynch as chief executive and chief financial officer respectively.
policy and practices are properly linked to corporate and individual performance and to the delivery of the Groups strategy on behalf of our owners.
Considered the findings from the 2012 external evaluation of the Committees performance and implemented the recommendations.
The report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 68 to 108 has been Reviewed the mix of skills required for non-executive directors and recommended by the Committee for approval by the board, and was approved briefed the search firm accordingly.
On page 79 we have included sections dealing with the responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and how it spent its Received a leadership assessment and development report on senior time in 2013. management talent from Egon Zehnder, whom the Committee consider to be independent of the Company, and discussed the same with them.
Governance processes Focused on the addition of new, suitably qualified and diverse directors.
The Committee met eight times in 2013.
The Committee carries out its business following an agreed annual cycle of meetings and topics Recommended to the board the appointment of Greg Lilleyman as Group for consideration.
executive, Technology & Innovation with effect from 1 January 2014.
Reviewed the output from a diversity review in order to gauge progress In addition to the matters noted on page 79, the Committee considered the against the aspiration for the right mix of skills and diversity on the board.
findings from the 2012 external evaluation of the Committees performance and implemented the recommendations.
In early 2014, the Committee considered In 2014, the Committee will continue its regular executive and non-executive the findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees performance and succession planning reviews.
In early 2014, the Committee considered the agreed the actions arising.
findings from the 2013 evaluation of the Committees performance and agreed the actions arising.
As set out in the Committee chairmans annual statement on pages 68 to 69, we are committed to a continuing dialogue with our owners.
Chairmans Committee Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis chairman, Sam Walsh and Chris Lynch.
Key responsibilities The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board or as specifically set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the functioning of the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the board, the Chairmans Committee will consider urgent matters between board meetings, and deals with the implementation of board decisions on transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than for the chairman of the board, the Committee performs the annual review of non-executive directors fees and makes a recommendation to the board.
com reportingcentre2013 Corporate governance continued How we support diversity and inclusion Board diversity We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity More information about the boards process for the selection, appointment and inclusion: and election of directors is available in the Corporate governance section of the website.
Governance models The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and Policies, practices and targets composition of the board.
Leadership and cultural competence In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks to continually Stakeholder relationships evolve its membership by seeking non-executive directors with diverse and Education and communication complementary skills and perspectives, as well as experience which reflects We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need and impact.
the geographic spread of the Groups operations.
Core skills required for non-executive membership of the board are maintained.
These skills may, Read a summary of our Diversity and inclusion policy in the Corporate depending upon the circumstances, comprise international business, financial governance section of our website.
or public policy experience, strategic acumen or mining or metals industry experience.
The board aspires to increase other aspects of diversity, including Our current focus gender and nationality, of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills, Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and experience and perspective to the governance of the Group.
The board communities in which we operate.
Currently, our focus is to improve the recognises that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term representation of women and of people from nationalities which are underprocess and weighs the various factors relevant to board balance and diversity represented in our workforce, and to continue to build an inclusive culture when vacancies arise.
in which all talent can thrive.
In 2012 the board established two objectives relating to diversity of the board: Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we undertook during the year are: The Nominations Committee will undertake a review of board diversity.
The development of executive-sponsored diversity and inclusion plans For each director selection and appointment process, the external search within the product groups and geographies which align with business goals firm supporting the Nominations Committee will put forward at least one and the Group Diversity and inclusion strategy, the aim being to increase credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
the diversity in our workforce at all levels and build a more inclusive culture.
An assessment of board diversity was completed by the Committee in 2012 Progress will be evaluated each year by the Executive Committee and Group and the output from that assessment was reviewed in the context of the Diversity Council and began in 2013.
Embed diversity and inclusion scorecards to accompany the above plans with metrics in three areas: Diversity and inclusion 1. Who we are demographics Our commitment to diversity and inclusion 2.
How we behave performance and development We are a global company and, wherever we operate and across every part 3.
What we stand for values of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and women from to be applied across Rio Tinto to help baseline, trend and track progress diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribute as well as to address areas where we may be underperforming.
their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we are able to Active involvement with Women in Mining groups, professional womens develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable value for associations and other targeted recruiting efforts to raise awareness about Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
Rio Tinto and to increase the attraction, development and retention of talented women wherever we operate.
What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto Expansion of our diversity champions network group to include additional Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or ethnic origin, geographies and operations, and the establishment of several new business religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, and physical ability.
unit diversity councils and committees across Rio Tinto.
These are increasing Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, skills, leadership engagement, cross-company collaboration, and the sharing and experience and working styles of our employees and other stakeholders.
Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for work The expansion of training programmes aimed at countering unconscious arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at bias.
These have targeted senior leaders, hiring managers and recruiters to different career and life stages.
help minimise the impact of bias in recruitment and development practices, Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable as well as to improve the cross-cultural interactions and  with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, building needed to globalise our business.
The continuation of a three-year commitment by the chairman to mentoring high-potential female board candidates through the FTSE100 Crosscompany Mentoring Programme.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Proportion of women employees and board members Dealing in Rio Tinto securities In 2013, the proportion of women on the board was 17 per cent, in senior Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto securities management 14 per cent and in the overall workforce 19 per cent.
by directors and employees with access to inside information.
These rules require those people to seek clearance before any proposed dealing and place Measurable objectives and progress restrictions on when some people can deal.
We established the following five-year measurable objectives for workforce Communication with stakeholders diversity at the start of 2011.
Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication with Measurable objective Progress during 2013 shareholders and the wider investment community.
Women to represent 20 per cent Women represented 14 per cent The Disclosure Committee is responsible for determining whether information of our senior management by 2015. of our senior management in 2013. relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets.
Women to represent 40 per cent Women represented 28 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure unless an exemption applies allowing a delay to the relevant listing authorities in accordance with their rules of any 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake 30 per cent of our 2013 graduate intake information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on to be nationals from regions where we were nationals from regions where we its share price.
All information released to the markets is posted on the Media are developing new businesses.
Subsidiary board diversity In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features information on In addition to the measurable objectives described above, women also corporate governance, and general investor information.
Annual and half year represented 12 per cent of the directors of our principal controlled subsidiary results, as well as any major presentations, are webcast and the materials are undertakings during 2013 26 female: 194 male.
Presentation material from investor seminars is also made available on the website.
Other disclosures The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a summary Policies and standards business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent developments and to Rio Tintos commitment to integrity is set out in our global code of business give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs of all board conduct: The way we work.
This contains principles and standards of conduct committees will be available to answer questions raised by shareholders and which reaffirm the Groups commitment to integrity.
It is inspired by our four all directors are expected to attend where possible.
In 2013 all of the directors core values: accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity.
It is available on attended the annual general meetings, with the exception of Robert Brown who the website.
was unable to attend the annual general meeting of Rio Tinto Limited due to his attending the annual general meeting of another company.
Rio Tintos external It is supported by Rio Tintos extensive framework of policies and standards.
auditors, PwC, attend the annual general meetings and are available to answer Core policies are adopted after wide consultation, externally and within questions about the conduct of the external audit and the preparation and the Group.
content of the independent auditors report.
Any questions received and Once adopted, they are communicated to business units worldwide, answers provided ahead of the annual general meetings are made available to together with related standards, guidance notes and resources to support shareholders, who also have the opportunity to meet informally with directors implementation.
Business unit management are required to devote the after the meetings.
necessary effort to implement and report on these policies and standards.
The main channels of communication with the investment community are Rio Tinto policies and standards include policies on a variety of important through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who have topics.
They apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
Where the Group regular meetings with the Companies major shareholders.
The senior does not have operating responsibility for a business, Rio Tintos policies and independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders standards are communicated to its business partners and they are encouraged who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, chief executive or to adopt similar policies of their own.
chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
In his capacity as Remuneration Committee chairman, Rio Tinto employees are required to undertake training about the requirements the senior independent director meets shareholders to discuss remuneration of The way we work and other core policies.
issues as described in his annual statement on pages 68 and 69.
Whistleblowing programme During 2013, these meetings with the investment community focused The board has adopted a confidential and independently operated on the issues of strategy, board succession, corporate governance, executive whistleblowing programme called Speak-OUT.
This offers an avenue where remuneration, and the operational and financial performance of the Group.
employees, contractors, suppliers and customers of Rio Tinto managed sites Regular investor seminars provide a two-way communication opportunity can report concerns anonymously if they so choose, subject to local law.
with investors and analysts, and feedback from such engagement is routinely This can include any significant concerns about the business, or behaviour communicated to the board.
Surveys of major shareholders opinions of individuals, including suspicion of violations of financial reporting, safety are presented to the board by the Groups investor relations advisers on or environmental procedures or business integrity issues generally.
programme features web submission, a case management tool to better manage cases, and a reporting tool to allow for improved analysis of case statistics and reporting.
Rio Tinto is also looking at ways to increase the positive awareness of Speak-OUT.
The Audit Committee receives a report annually on Speak-OUT activity as does the Sustainability Committee with regard to calls to Speak-OUT impacting sustainable development issues.
com reportingcentre2013 Corporate governance continued Risk management In 2013, information was reported by management to the Audit Committee to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the Companys risk management Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive, sustainable returns to and internal control systems.
In addition, as part of their role, the board and shareholders through a strategy of investing in long-life, low-cost, expandable its committees routinely monitor the Groups material business risks.
operations in the most attractive industry sectors.
The directors recognise that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the process for The risks shareholders face are, to some extent, managed by the Groups identifying, evaluating and managing the material business risks is designed to diversified portfolio of assets spread across multiple geographies, currencies manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide reasonable, but not absolute and commodities.
assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree using internal A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties in the international Rio Tinto is found on pages 14 to 17. insurance markets, to the extent considered appropriate.
The Group has Risk policy and standard material investments in a number of jointly controlled entities and associates.
The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business and Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that carefully considers the level of risk it is prepared to tolerate.
The Group fosters local management of mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto a risk-aware corporate culture in all decision-making, and is committed to standards or objectives.
managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through competent risk management that ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
To Auditors and internal assurance support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management External auditors decisions taken at all levels within the organisation.
The principles of the risk As indicated in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 61 and 62, Rio Tinto analysis and management process are set out in the Risk policy and standard has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups which is on the website.
external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting and other professional services that might compromise their appointment as Risk approach independent auditors.
The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework of risk governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises the handling of The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit services, risk.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an ongoing process for other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services, and certain other identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Any engagement of the external auditors to provide Clear accountability for risk management is defined throughout the Group and other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit is a key performance area of line managers.
For other services, because of their knowledge, experience and or for reasons of confidentiality, it can be more efficient or To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Risk necessary to engage the external auditor rather than another party.
function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation for the senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused functions.
At half year and year end, the chief financial officer and the external auditors Group Risk supports the Risk Management Committee in its review of risk.
submit to the Audit Committee a schedule of the types of services that were performed during the period.
The Audit Committee may impose a financial Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
of the Groups risk management systems, the responsibility for identifying and Any non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected managing risks rests with the chief executive and all of Rio Tintos managers fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups normal and business leaders, who operate within a Group-wide framework that ensures tender procedures.
that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to engage Internal controls the external auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if the The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the chairman for reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
This of the Audit Committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures and their effectiveness.
The directors have completed Further information on audit and non-audit fees of the Groups external auditors their annual review and assessment for 2013. is set out in note 39 to the financial statements and in the Directors report.
Internal control systems Group Audit & Assurance Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Committee and Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function which provides independent the Disclosure Committee, regularly review reports related to the Groups and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups control framework in order to satisfy the internal control requirements of the systems for risk management, internal control and governance together with Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the  to improve the effectiveness of the relevant systems and Oxley Act 2002.
The Group Audit & Assurance function performs reviews of processes.
The function has adopted international auditing standards set by the integrity and effectiveness of control activities and provides regular the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and other management committees.
Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and functions complete a representation letter confirming that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance continued Risk management In 2013, information was reported by management to the Audit Committee The function operates independently of management, under a mandate The directors consider that the 2013 Annual report presents a true and fair to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the Companys risk management Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive, sustainable returns to approved by the Audit Committee, and has full access to all functions, records, view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting and internal control systems.
In addition, as part of their role, the board and shareholders through a strategy of investing in long-life, low-cost, expandable property and personnel of the Group.
The head of Group Audit & Assurance standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos its committees routinely monitor the Groups material business risks.
The directors recognise administratively reports to the chief financial officer and has direct business, and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates.
The that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
communication lines with the chairs of both the Audit Committee and accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have received Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the process for The risks shareholders face are, to some extent, managed by the Groups Sustainability Committee and regularly attends their meetings, providing a written statement from the chief executive and the chief financial officer to identifying, evaluating and managing the material business risks is designed to diversified portfolio of assets spread across multiple geographies, currencies each Committee with information relevant to their specific terms of reference.
In accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide reasonable, but not absolute and commodities.
and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written statement confirms assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
Certain risks, for example A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high-risk areas that the declarations in the statement are founded on a sound system of risk natural disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree using internal A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Committee and management and internal controls, and that the system is operating effectively controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties in the international Rio Tinto is found on pages 14 to 17.
in all material respects in relation to financial reporting risks.
insurance markets, to the extent considered appropriate.
The Group has Risk policy and standard In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services of external material investments in a number of jointly controlled entities and associates.
Disclosure controls and procedures The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business and service providers.
The Audit Committee has a policy which addresses conflicts Where Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term is carefully considers the level of risk it is prepared to tolerate.
The Group fosters of interest in relation to engagements of the service provider that are requested local management of mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto defined in US Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, with the participation a risk-aware corporate culture in all decision-making, and is committed to by management.
The policy complies with the IIAs standards on independence.
of the chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through competent risk Certain services are pre-approved under the policy as they would not be in of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures management that ensures that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
To Auditors and internal assurance conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a list of prohibited services pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management which may not be undertaken without approval of the head of Group Audit & External auditors by this report and has concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures decisions taken at all levels within the organisation.
The principles of the risk As indicated in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 61 and 62, Rio Tinto Assurance, and guidance on the consideration of services which may give rise were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
analysis and management process are set out in the Risk policy and standard has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups to a conflict of interest.
external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Financial reporting and other professional services that might compromise their appointment as The management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited is responsible for Risk approach Financial statements independent auditors.
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework of risk The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial The Companies internal control over financial reporting is a process designed governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises the handling of The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit services, period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at under the supervision of their common chief executive and chief financial officer risk.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an ongoing process for other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services, and certain other the end of the financial period, and the profit or loss and cash flows for that to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Any engagement of the external auditors to provide period.
This includes preparing financial statements in accordance with UK and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial Clear accountability for risk management is defined throughout the Group and other permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with International is a key performance area of line managers.
For other services, because of their knowledge, affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which includes the information Financial Reporting Standards EU IFRS.
experience and or for reasons of confidentiality, it can be more efficient or To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Risk required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized necessary to engage the external auditor rather than another party.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation for the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused functions.
At half year and year end, the chief financial officer and the external auditors misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of Group Risk supports the Risk Management Committee in its review of risk.
submit to the Audit Committee a schedule of the types of services that were In addition, the Code requires that the board provides a fair, balanced and Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The Audit Committee may impose a financial Whilst the Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects in limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes policies and of the Groups risk management systems, the responsibility for identifying and its external reporting.
The directors were responsible for the preparation Any non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable managing risks rests with the chief executive and all of Rio Tintos managers and approval of the Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013. fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups normal detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: and business leaders, who operate within a Group-wide framework that ensures They consider the Annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and tender procedures.
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary that risks are managed within agreed thresholds.
understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to engage Internal controls that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with the external auditors to provide such services without going to tender, but if the The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, authorisations of management and directors of each of the Companies: and fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the chairman for reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
This in accordance with UK and Australian legislation.
They have a general provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of of the Audit Committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could management procedures and their effectiveness.
The directors have completed the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Further information on audit and non-audit fees of the Groups external auditors have a material effect on our financial statements.
their annual review and assessment for 2013.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems are is set out in note 39 to the financial statements and in the Directors report.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Groups website.
Internal control systems Group Audit & Assurance over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on the Internal Control Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Committee and Group Audit & Assurance is an internal function which provides independent Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations statements may differ from current and future legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Disclosure Committee, regularly review reports related to the Groups and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups of the Treadway Commission COSO issued in 1992, and concluded that it The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of such control framework in order to satisfy the internal control requirements of the systems for risk management, internal control and governance together with was effective.
developments and, accordingly, the external auditors accept no responsibility Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Standards and section 404 of the  to improve the effectiveness of the relevant systems and for any changes, should any be made, to the financial statements after they are There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that Oxley Act 2002.
The function has adopted international auditing standards set by made available on the website.
occurred during the period that have materially affected, or are reasonably the integrity and effectiveness of control activities and provides regular the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
likely to materially affect, the internal controls over financial reporting of each reports to the Audit Committee, Sustainability Committee and other The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course of the preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct themselves with integrity Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and functions complete a and honesty and in accordance with the ethical standards of their profession representation letter confirming that adequate internal controls are in place, and the business.
are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
