Corporate governance report areas of Board focus During the past year the Board has paid particular attention to the following important areas: continuing to develop and promote corporate responsibility throughout the business: assessing the effectiveness of our health and safety practices and monitoring across the Group, and identifying areas for improvement: evaluating our robust operating model and structure to ensure they remain fit for purpose as Ashtead grows and markets change: continuing review of the effectiveness of our capital structure as the economic environment changes: an ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of our strategy and the degree to which it remains appropriate as markets and opportunities change: ensuring our key management resource remains motivated and appropriately rewarded: ChriS Cole succession planning and ongoing senior recruitment: and reviewing Board priorities and activities in line with our risk and ethics management regime.
Dear Shareholder Your Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Board effectiveness review governance.
We recognise that good governance is essential in During the year we commissioned an external review of the work assisting the business to manage its risk, deliver its strategy, of the Board and its committees, which reported to the April Board generate shareholder value and safeguard shareholders long-term meeting.
The review was carried out by Boardroom Review Limited interests.
As Ashtead continues to grow, I will ensure the regime and resulted in a strong endorsement of the performance of the remains appropriately robust.
The Board is accountable to the Board.
We are pleased that the Board was found to operate in an Companys shareholders for corporate governance and I, as effective and efficient manner but we also recognise that there is chairman, am responsible for ensuring the Board operates effectively.
always room for improvement and change as we strive to be better.
I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for More information on the review can be found on page 38.
This report details the matters addressed by the Board Compliance and its committees during the year.
We endeavour to monitor and comply with ongoing changes in Board composition and diversity corporate governance and evolving best practice in this area.
The Each member of our Board must be able to demonstrate the skills, Company complied throughout the year with the provisions of the UK experience and knowledge required to contribute to the effectiveness Corporate Governance Code and I am pleased to confirm this report of the Board.
It is also important that we address issues of diversity in provides a fair, balanced and understandable view of the Groups terms of skills, geographical experience relevant to our business and position and prospects.
With the appointment of Suzanne Wood as finance director ChriS Cole last year, I believe the Board is appropriately balanced in terms of Chairman diversity with a good mix of specialist skills and market expertise.
We will continue to prioritise balanced skills and experience on the Board when seeking a replacement for Hugh Etheridge who steps down in 2014 as our senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
36 ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Board MaTTerS reSerVeD To The BoarD The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the includes: chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive director and three treasury policy: other independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of the acquisitions and disposals: directors are given on page 33. appointment and removal of directors or the company The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board secretary: agendas and ensures its effectiveness by requiring the provision of timely, accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups appointment and removal of the auditor: business, to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote approval of the annual accounts and the quarterly financial the success of the business.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reports to shareholders: reviews the effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and facilitates constructive relationships between the approval of the issue of shares and debentures: executive and non-executive directors through both formal and the setting of dividend policy: and informal meetings.
The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors undertake an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
aTTenDanCe aT BoarD anD CoMMiTTee MeeTingS helD Additionally, detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all BeTWeen 1 May 2012 anD 30 aPril 2013 Board members and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination appropriate documentation in respect of each item to be discussed Number of meetings held 6 4 1 1 is circulated.
Chris Cole 6 1 The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders Sat Dhaiwal 6 through both the annual general meeting and by being available Geoff Drabble 6 1 to meet with major shareholders, to develop an understanding Brendan Horgan 6 of the views of the investors in the business.
He also ensures that Ian Robson 1 shareholders have access to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
Suzanne Wood 5 Michael Burrow 6 4 1 1 The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership Bruce Edwards 6 1 1 of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, Hugh Etheridge 6 4 1 1 which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive Ian Sutcliffe 6 4 1 1 undertakes the leadership and responsibility for the direction and management of the day-to-day business and conduct of the Group.
Ian Robson resigned as director on 13 July 2012.
In doing so, the chief executives role includes, but is not restricted Suzanne Wood was appointed as a director on 16 July 2012. to, implementing Board decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding the conduct, activities and SuMMary of The BoarDS Work During The year performance of the Group.
The chief executive chairs the Sunbelt During the year, the Board considered all matters reserved to the and A-Plant board meetings and sets policies and direction to Board for decision, focusing in particular on the following: maximise returns to shareholders.
Adoption of the 2012 13 budget All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of Review of operations, current trading and outlook the Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed Approval of the quarterly financial statements in detail and assessed critically to ensure they are aligned with the Approval of the annual report and accounts long-term interests of shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, customers and suppliers.
Approval of the AGM resolutions Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the Dividend policy executive directors and the company secretary, to ensure the Investor relations directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
The Board normally meets six times a year and there is contact between meetings to Treasury policy advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice Refinancing of the Groups second priority senior secured notes to meet regularly with the senior executives of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the company secretary and are able Review of the work of the Groups Risk Committee to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
Review and approval of the Groups risk register The directors will retire at this years Annual General Meeting and will Growth and acquisition strategy offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The acquisition of JMR There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision.
Settlement of the IRS tax audits of Sunbelt Other matters are delegated to Board committees, details of which Appointment of the Group finance director are given on pages 40, 41 and 43. ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 Corporate governance report continued The review comprised a series of in-depth interviews with all non-executive directors Board members and a number of the senior management team, In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys together with observation of the Boards conduct in meetings and practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
a review of the documentation circulated in advance of Board and Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure committee meetings.
the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to fulfil properly their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings The report of the external reviewer, which included conclusions and and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
recommendations of the reviewer, was presented to a meeting of The non-executives letters of appointment will be available for the Board in April 2013.
The overall conclusion was that the Board inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The approval of the operated in an efficient and effective manner.
In addition, certain chairman is required before a non-executive can take on other areas of focus were identified to enhance the effectiveness of the non-executive director roles.
The report was considered and debated by the Board and various action points were agreed.
Based on the report, The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and the Board concluded that the performance of the Board and its when required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss committees in the past year had been satisfactory.
and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code we intend to conduct UK Corporate Governance Code, the non-executive directors, led externally facilitated board effectiveness reviews at least every three by the senior independent non-executive director, also meet at years.
In addition, the chairman holds regular development reviews least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and with each Board director.
internal control Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms not The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal In doing so, the Group has taken note of the relevant guidance for of a director.
directors, published by the Financial Reporting Council, Internal Control: Guidance to Directors.
TENURE OF NON-EXEUCTIVE DIRECTORS YEARS The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating Chris Cole and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process 3 Hugh Etheridge has been in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
Under its Michael Burrow terms of reference the Group Risk Management Committee meets Bruce Edwards 11 semi-annually or more frequently if required, with the objective 6 Ian Sutcliffe of encouraging best risk management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Management Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee.
6 The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is 9 designed appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve its business objectives.
Any such control system, however, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Hugh Etheridge will be retiring as a non-executive director in June 2014.
The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these Board committees risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are Committees.
The membership roles and activities of the Audit and documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any Nomination Committees are detailed on pages 40 and 41 and the matters have arisen since the last report was prepared which might Remuneration Committee in the separate report on page 43. indicate omissions or inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or Each committee reports to, and has its terms of reference agreed by, external environment, any new significant risks have arisen.
The terms of reference of these committees are available Group Risk Committee reviewed the draft report for 2013, which was on our website and will be available for inspection at the Annual then presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit Committee General Meeting.
and the Group Board on 17 June 2013. finanCe anD aDMiniSTraTion CoMMiTTee Before producing the statement on internal control for the annual The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, report and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2013, the Board Geoff Drabble chairman and Suzanne Wood.
The Board of directors reconsidered the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal has delegated authority to this Committee to deal with routine control systems.
In particular, through the Audit Committee, it financial and administrative matters between Board meetings.
The received reports from the operational audit teams and considered Committee meets as necessary to perform its role and has a quorum the internal control improvement recommendations made by the requirement of two members with certain matters requiring the Groups internal auditors and its external auditor and managements participation of Chris Cole, non-executive chairman, including, for implementation plans.
The control system includes written policies example, the approval of material announcements to the London and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of accountability and Stock Exchange.
delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting and analysis against budgets and latest forecasts.
Performance evaluation In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of An external review of the work of the Board and its committees was Ashtead, minor breakdowns in established control procedures can commissioned in December 2012 and conducted between January occur.
There are supporting policies and procedures for investigation and April 2013.
The review was conducted by Dr Tracy Long of and management of control breakdowns at any of the Groups stores Boardroom Review Limited, a company which has no connection with Ashtead.
38 ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting external auditor to discuss their work.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the monitoring procedures include: financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities management information, including a monthly profit and loss and for the preparation of a directors report and directors account and selected balance sheet data for each store: remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down Companies Act 2006. authority levels and proper segregation of accounting duties The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: at the Groups accounting support centres: the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Board: the directors report includes a fair review of the development and a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory performance of the business and the position of the Group, counts conducted at each store by equipment type and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties independently checked on a sample basis by our operational that it faces.
auditors and external auditor: In addition, each of the directors considers that the Annual Report, detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists from a major information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups international accounting firm: performance, business model and strategy.
comprehensive audits at the stores generally carried out every The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the two years by internal operational audit.
A summary of this work corporate and financial information included on the Companys is provided annually to the Audit Committee: and website.
Shareholders should note that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ whistle-blowing procedures by which staff may, in confidence, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
raise concerns about possible improprieties or breaches of company policy or procedure.
going concern Statement of directors responsibilities The Groups operations and financial condition, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and condition The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report are set out in the Business and financial review on pages 8 to 25.
In and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and particular, the Groups financial management and cash flow, including regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial details of the Groups banking facilities are set out on pages 23 and 24. statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial In addition, note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and financial risk management policies and processes, including its Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and have also elected to prepare exposure to interest rate risk, currency exchange risk, credit risk and financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the Companies Act.
The Groups debt facilities are committed for a weighted average period of five years as of 30 April 2013 with the earliest significant Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts maturity being the ABL facility which continues until March 2016. unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state The Group finances its day-to-day activity via the ABL facility under of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for which excess availability totalled $667m at year end.
Taking account of that period.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires reasonably possible changes in trading performance, used equipment that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the values and the other factors that might impact availability, the Group Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
expects to maintain significant headroom under the ABL facility for This requires the representation of the effects of transactions, as well the forthcoming year.
as other events and conditions, in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out After making enquiries, the directors therefore have a reasonable in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and consequently circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: financial statements.
properly select and apply accounting policies: audit Committee present information, including accounting policies, in a manner inTroDuCTion By hugh eTheriDge, auDiT CoMMiTTee ChairMan that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit Committee for 2012 13. information: As chairman of the Committee, it is my responsibility to ensure that provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the Committee fulfils its responsibilities in a rigorous and effective requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand manner.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code published in the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions September 2012 is designed to promote greater clarity and on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and understanding with regard to the activities of the Board and its make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39 Corporate governance report continued committees with the result that communication with shareholders SuMMary of The CoMMiTTeeS Work During The year will be more effective.
Accordingly, in this report I have sought to The Committee has met on five occasions during the last year and provide more insight into the matters considered by the Committee its principal areas of focus are discussed below.
I believe this will give shareholders the assurance integrity of quarterly and annual financial reports that the control environment in the Company is being appropriately The Committee reviewed the quarterly and annual financial monitored and reviewed.
statements released by the Company.
A similar process is followed I am satisfied that the Committee was provided with good quality at each reporting date whereby the Committee receives a paper from and timely material to allow proper consideration to be given to the management on the key judgements taken in preparing the financial Committees responsibilities.
In addition, the external auditor presents a paper summarising the findings of its work at the half year and full year.
One of the changes in the revised code is the principle that the Board Through this process, the Committee is able to ensure that the should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of financial statements and related narrative presents a balanced and the Companys position and prospects through its financial reporting.
understandable statement of the Groups position.
The principal areas The Committee has reviewed all the Companys financial reports focused on by the Committee during the year included: in advance of publication and is satisfied that they provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position accounting and reporting judgements, the principal ones being and prospects.
useful lives of property, plant and equipment, asset impairment including goodwill, receivables provisioning and self-insurance, on hugh eTheriDge a quarterly basis and significant accounting policies and estimates Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Group under IFRS on an annual basis: assessing, on a quarterly basis, the appropriateness of the going Membership of the Committee concern assumption in preparing the financial statements.
This The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors.
was based on a review of internal forecasts and the Groups debt The members of the Committee during the year were: profile, including headroom and any requirement to comply with Hugh Etheridge Chairman financial covenants: Michael Burrow accounting for the issue of the new $500m 6.5% second priority Ian Sutcliffe senior secured notes due in 2022 and the redemption of the $550m Hugh Etheridge is a Chartered Accountant and has relevant financial 9% notes due in 2016, including the related exceptional interest experience.
He has previously been finance director of Matthew expense: and Clark plc, Waste Recycling Group plc and, until he retired, the Waste the acquisition accounting for JMR Industries and the four smaller Resources Action Programme.
Eric Watkins is secretary to the bolt-on acquisitions, including the identification of acquired Committee.
Chris Cole, Geoff Drabble and Suzanne Wood, together intangible assets which relate predominantly to customer with the Groups deputy finance director generally attend meetings relationships.
In addition, the Group audit partner from our external auditor usually attends the Committee meetings.
external auditor The Group audit partner from Deloitte attends all meetings of the The Audit Committees terms of reference will be available for Committee and reports formally to the Committee at three meetings.
inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The first occasion during the year is in relation to the Groups half-year results and the report gives the results of Deloittes review of those Main reSPonSiBiliTieS of The auDiT CoMMiTTee results.
The half-year review forms part of Deloittes planning for the The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and monitoring annual audit and their full audit plan and proposed audit fee is of financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
presented to the February Committee meeting.
Finally, when the The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: Committee meets to consider the draft Annual Report, Deloitte presents a report on the findings of its audit.
monitor the integrity of the annual and quarterly results, including a review of the significant financial reporting non-audit services and external auditor independence judgements contained therein: The Committee has reaffirmed its policy on non-audit services which requires Committee approval for any fees in excess of establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the 25,000.
It is accepted that certain work of a non-audit nature is best external auditor, including the external audit process, their undertaken by the external auditor, for example, in connection with audit and non-audit fees and independence and make our debt issue in June 2012.
Each year we review the level of fees and recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the nature of non-audit work undertaken and we were again satisfied that external auditor: it was in line with our policy and did not detract from the objectivity review and assess the effectiveness of the Companys internal and independence of the external auditor.
The principal non-audit fees financial controls and internal control and risk management paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year relate to their systems: review of the Companys interim results, comfort letters related to our June 2012 debt issue, due diligence support and tax advice.
oversee the nature, scope and effectiveness of the internal audit work undertaken: and external audit effectiveness The Committee conducts an annual review of the external auditors monitor the Companys policies and procedures for handling effectiveness, drawing on input from the finance director, deputy allegations from whistle-blowers.
finance director and senior finance management at Sunbelt and The Committee reports to the Board on its activities and minutes A-Plant.
Based on this input and its interaction with the external of meetings are available to the Board.
auditor, the Committee is satisfied the audit process and strategy for the 2013 audit was effective.
40 ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 reappointment of external auditor The only change to the Board during the year was the formal Deloitte was appointed external auditor in 2004.
The Committee appointment of Suzanne Wood as finance director following the is recommending to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders retirement of Ian Robson, a decision which had been announced at the 2013 Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of in the prior year.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys The Committee also recommended to the Board that both choice of external auditor and in making its recommendation the Michael Burrow and Bruce Edwards, who have both served as Committee took into account, amongst other matters, the objectivity non-executive directors for six years, be reappointed for further and independence of Deloitte, as noted above, and their continuing terms of three years.
However, in light of the new requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code to put the external audit Membership of the Committee: contract out to tender at least every ten years, the Committee will Chris Cole Chairman consider how and when a tender process may be undertaken, taking Michael Burrow account of the transitional provisions suggested by the Financial Geoff Drabble Reporting Council.
Bruce Edwards financial control and risk management Hugh Etheridge The Companys objective is to maintain a strong control environment Ian Sutcliffe which minimises the financial risk faced by the business.
It is the Eric Watkins is secretary to the Committee.
Committees responsibility to review and assess the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk Main reSPonSiBiliTieS of The noMinaTion CoMMiTTee management factors.
The principal duties of the Committee are making The Committee receives regular reports from internal operational recommendations to the Board on: audit, outsourced internal audit and the Group Risk Committee.
The the Boards structure, size, composition and balance: Groups risk management processes are an area of focus as they adapt to reflect changes to our risk profile as a result of our significant the appointment, reappointment, retirement or continuation of growth, both organic and through bolt-on acquisitions.
any director: and internal audit the continuation of any non-executive director who has served The internal operational audit teams in the two businesses undertake for a period of three years or more.
operational audits across the store network using a risk-based The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available methodology.
Each year we agree the scope of work and the coverage for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
in the audit plan at the start of the year and receive formal reports on the results of the work at the half year and full year.
During the year 262 audits were completed, which is consistent with our goal for each SuMMary of The CoMMiTTeeS Work During The year of our nearly 500 stores to receive an audit visit at least once every The Committee met once during the year and the principal matters two years.
The audits are scored and action plans agreed with store discussed were: management to remedy identified weaknesses.
This continual process of reinforcement is key to the store level control environment.
the review and approval of the Groups succession plan: In addition, we engage a major international accounting firm to the reappointment of Michael Burrow: and perform detailed internal audits at the Groups major support centres the reappointment of Bruce Edwards.
Such an internal audit was undertaken this year and we reviewed and approved the audit plan and scope of work in advance, By order of the Board monitored the work as it progressed and received a report on the findings on its conclusion.
We reviewed the findings of this work and the improvement actions agreed by management.
Whistle-blowing There are policies and procedures in place whereby staff may, in confidence, report concerns about possible improprieties or eriC WaTkinS breaches of Company policy or procedure.
These suspicions are Company secretary investigated and the results of the investigation are reported to 19 June 2013 the whistle-blower.
The Committee receives a report from the company secretary on control issues arising from whistle-blowing as well as from other sources.
nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board of directors.
The Committees primary focus this year was to ensure that succession planning became an even greater priority.
Consideration was given to the Groups succession plan in June 2012 which covered the executive directors, company secretary and senior management teams at Group, Sunbelt and A Plant.
The succession plan will remain on the Committees agenda and will be considered at least annually.
ashtead group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41
