Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 44 Directors report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Our committee is focused on ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and improving the financial controls framework.
Lewis Booth CBE Chairman of the audit committee I am pleased to present the report of the audit committee for the Committee members and attendance year.
I would like to thank committee members, the executive The audit committee consists exclusively of independent management team and KPMG for the open discussions that take non-executive directors and met four times in 2013. place at our meetings and the importance they all attach to its work.
Attendance in 2013 Lewis Booth CBE Chairman 4 4 Work of the committee in 2013 Iain Conn 4 4 At our meetings during 2013, we focused on financial reporting, Warren East CBE appointed 1 January 2014 n a internal control, internal audit and external audit.
We received John Neill CBE 4 4 presentations from senior executives from the Civil aerospace, Ian Strachan retired 2 May 2013 2 2 Defence aerospace and Civil Nuclear businesses.
These presentations covered key accounting judgements and estimates, The external auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, the Director of internal control and risk management.
Internal Audit, the General Counsel, the Director of Risk, the We also reviewed the committees own terms of reference.
Company Secretary, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer are also invited to Financial reporting attend meetings.
Other Board members, including the In addressing our key objective, which is to assist the Board in remuneration committee chairman and senior executives ensuring the integrity of its financial statements, we reviewed attended meetings during the year at the invitation of the financial announcements and financial statements with both committee chairman.
management and the external auditor, concentrating on: compliance with financial reporting standards and governance reporting requirements: Key objective: areas requiring significant judgements to be made in applying to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of its accounting policies: financialstatements.
the appropriateness of accounting policies: Responsibilities: the procedures and controls around estimates that are key in to review the financial results announcements and financial applying accounting policies: statements, monitoring compliance with relevant regulations: whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information to review the appropriateness of accounting policies and the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups business model, supporting key judgements and estimates: strategy and performance: and to assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems to identify, any relevant correspondence from regulators.
manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks: to review the procedures for detecting, monitoring and Our committee is focused on ensuring integrity of the Groups managing the risk of fraud: financial reporting and improving the financial controls framework, to oversee the relationship with the external auditor and make including the restructuring of business audit committees which recommendations to the Board regarding the external auditors now report directly to this committee.
During the year, we appointment: and encouraged and supported the development of an enhanced to review the scope, resources, results and effectiveness of business audit committee process.
Under this process, management Internal Audit.
of each of the Groups businesses consider the appropriateness and related governance of accounting policies, judgements and estimates and the control environment relating to their businesses including internal audit findings and the robustness of the processes used to execute their risk management responsibilities.
We receive reports on the results of these reviews.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 45 Our business is complex: in particular the development of gas contingent liabilities we considered the adequacy of the turbines for use in civil aircraft applications requires large upfront disclosures.
In particular, we considered legal advice in respect of investments, a long period of sale of original equipment, and a very the possible outcome of the SFO enquiries.
We were satisfied that long period over which we generate profits and cash flows from the the disclosures appropriately reflect the current position: and aftermarket by the sale of spare parts and engine maintenance segmental reporting we considered the changes in management work.
The in-service period could be longer than 25 years for any structure and internal reporting described on page 10 and the engine, and the total life cycle of an engine could be more than implications for reporting in accordance with IFRS 8.
We were 40 years from initial concept, through production, and then through satisfied with the appropriateness of the revised segmental the in-service life.
Much of the aftermarket repair and overhaul is reporting from 1 January 2014. provided through long-term service agreements.
Given this long Since the year end, we have reviewed the form and content of the exposure, the amount of revenue and profit recognised during any Groups 2013 annual report.
The committee has reported to the period requires a significant number of accounting judgements and Board that it considers the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, estimates, supported by engineering and business assessments.
Consequently, one of our primary responsibilities is to ensure that the bases for these judgements and estimates are robust.
Internal control The Director of Internal Audit provided a report setting out an In 2013, our work focused on: overview of the Groups control environment and we reviewed the carrying values of the principal intangible assets in Civil aerospace processes by which the control environment is assessed and any we considered the business plans for the relevant engine identified weaknesses resolved.
We considered control weaknesses programmes, including the key assumptions on which they are identified by the auditors in accounting for Civil aerospace longbased, and which support the value in use assessments for the term aftermarket contracts, and managements plans to address intangible assets.
We were satisfied that no impairments were these.
We also received reports of any identified frauds that are required: significant or demonstrate significant weakness in internal control.
long-term contractual arrangements in Civil aerospace we We also reviewed a report on compliance with the Groups policies reviewed the forecasts of future contract performance on which in respect of expenses incurred by the directors and other senior the accounting is based.
We also considered performance to date executives, which did not identify any significant issues.
against these forecasts and the results of a detailed review of certain aspects of the processes supporting these forecasts.
Internal Audit Where the accounting results in a contract asset, we assessed The Director of Internal Audit presented two updates on audit the recoverability of the asset against agreed criteria.
We were activities and findings covering six-month periods, the resolution satisfied that the forecasts have been prepared on an appropriate of control weaknesses, progress against the agreed plan and the and consistent basis: resourcing of the department.
We are continuing to develop with risk and revenue sharing arrangements RRSAs in Civil aerospace him a simplified metrics-driven approach to the reporting, focusing as described in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 11, on the closure of open items on a timely basis and the identification during the year and following discussions with the Conduct of recurring themes.
We were satisfied that the scope, extent and Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC, the Group effectiveness of Internal Audit are appropriate for the Group.
has reassessed its accounting policy for entry fees received from I meet the Director of Internal Audit in private before each meeting workshare partners.
Adopted IFRS does not contain requirements and the committee as a whole has a private meeting with him at that are specific to arrangements of this type and we assessed least once a year.
possible alternative policies developed by management.
We reviewed the revised policy, considered the FRCs and KPMGs views External auditor and I attended a meeting with the FRC.
On balance, we agreed The external audit is a continuous process.
At the start of the audit with managements view that the revised policy fairly reflects cycle, KPMG presented their audit strategy, identifying their the nature of the transaction and that it should be adopted assessment of the key risks for the purposes of the audit and the retrospectively: scope of their work.
we reviewed the contractual arrangements that resulted in the For 2013, these risks were: the implementation of a new Group consolidating Rolls-Royce Power Systems AG from 1 January consolidation system: the business combination and Daimlers 2013.
We also reviewed the accounting for the business put option in respect of Rolls-Royce Power Systems Holding GmbH: combination, based on a third-party valuation of the intangible impairment of intangible assets: long-term contractual assets acquired, and the valuation of the Daimler put option on arrangements: warranties and guarantees: RRSAs: customer the non-controlling interest.
We were satisfied that appropriate financing arrangements: contingent liabilities: valuation of judgements and estimates have been made: derivatives: valuation of pension liabilities: recoverability of tax customer financing liabilities in Civil aerospace we considered assets and adequacy of tax provisions: the adjustments between the adequacy of provisions for these liabilities.
We considered the the reported results and the Groups underlying performance: and likelihood of the liabilities crystallising, based on an assessment the form and content of the annual report.
More detail is set out in of customers fleet plans and their creditworthiness.
We also KPMGs report on pages 130 to 135. considered the value of any security held, based on third-party valuations.
We were satisfied that provisions have been made on an appropriate basis: Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 46 Directors report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT KPMG reports to the committee at both the half and full-year Audit tendering setting out their assessment of the Groups judgements and The Group is a complex and technologically advanced business estimates in respect of these risks and the adequacy of the with a long cycle from the development of an engine to its eventual reporting.
I meet the lead audit partner in private before each retirement.
We believe that KPMGs knowledge of this, built up over meeting and the whole committee meets with KPMG in private a number of years, enhances the effectiveness of the audit and that at least once a year.
the existing professional requirements, such as the rotation of audit personnel, maintain independence.
However, the UK Corporate Non-audit services provided by KPMG Governance Code now requires the external audit contract be In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, we do tendered at least every ten years.
The FRC has proposed non-binding not engage KPMG for any non-audit services, except where it is work transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering, that they must, or are clearly best suited to perform.
Fees paid to including a suggestion that tendering should normally fit the KPMG for audit, audit related and other services are set out in note 8 five-yearly cycle with respect to the lead partner.
We plan to recommend a tender of the audit during the tenure Excluding Rolls-Royce Power Systems see below, the main non-audit of the current lead partner which, subject to KPMGs annual related services provided by KPMG during the year were in respect reappointment, is due to end following the 2017 audit.
This will also of grant claims and tax compliance and were 11percent of the audit satisfy the requirements proposed by the Competition Commission.
The nature and level of all services provided by the external However, before we make such a recommendation, we will satisfy auditor is a factor taken into account by the audit committee in its ourselves that, if the tender resulted in a change of auditor: i it annual review of the external auditor.
would not be unnecessarily disruptive, taking account of any other All proposed services must be pre-approved in accordance with activities: and ii appropriate plans are in place to ensure audit an agreed policy.
We review the non-audit fees charged by KPMG effectiveness is maintained.
During the year, we approved a tender at each meeting and annually review the approval limits.
plan prepared by management to be used when the audit is tendered but we do not plan to tender the audit during 2014.
The EU Following the consolidation of Rolls-Royce Power Systems on is also finalising requirements which would require mandatory 1January 2013, we took the decision to allow the completion of rotation of auditors.
the draft proposals would require us to appoint engagements already in progress.
As a result, Rolls-Royce Power a different firm by 2020 at the latest.
Once finalised, we will take Systems incurred fees on non-audit services provided by KPMG account of the EU requirements in our assessment of when to in 2013 of 2.1million, 210percent of its audit fee.
This will recommend an audit tender.
Lewis Booth CBE Reappointment of auditor Chairman of the audit committee Following the completion of the audit, we reviewed the effectiveness and performance of KPMG with feedback from committee members, senior finance personnel and Internal Audit, covering overall quality, independence and objectivity, business understanding, technical knowledge, quality and continuity of personnel, responsiveness and cost effectiveness.
We also considered the reports on KPMG by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team.
The audit of Rolls-Royce was not subject to their review in 2013.
KPMG were appointed as auditors in 1990 and this appointment has not been subject to a tender process since that date.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate every five years and other key audit partners are required to rotate every seven years.
Jimmy Daboo took over as lead audit partner in 2013 and has had no previous involvement with Rolls-Royce in any capacity.
No contractual obligations restrict our choice of external auditors.
We concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit and the committee and the Board have recommended their reappointment at the 2014 AGM.
