Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 36 Directors report BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 2 1,2, 4, 6 1, 2,4 1.
Lewis Booth CBE Chairman, appointed March 2013 Senior Independent Director, appointed Non-executive director, appointed May 2011 January2005 Skills and experience: Ian spent his early career at Skills and experience: Lewis is the former Bowater, moving to McKinsey & Company in 1979.
Skills and experience: Iain joined the BP group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial He was managing partner of McKinseys practice in 1986 and has held a number of executive Officer of Ford Motor Company, a position he held in the UK and Ireland from 1996 to 2003.
In 2003, positions within the BP group worldwide.
for over three years until his retirement from the he was appointed as Chairman and worldwide company in April 2012.
During his 34-year career External appointments: Iain is Chief Executive of Managing Director of McKinsey, serving in this at Ford he held a series of senior positions in Refining and Marketing, BP p. l. c. He is a member capacity until 2009.
During his career with Europe, Asia, Africa and the United States.
Lewis of The Imperial College Council and of the CBIs McKinsey, Ian served as a consultant to a range of began his career with British Leyland, before Energy and Climate Change Board.
He is also a global organisations across the private, public and joining Ford in 1978.
He was awarded a CBE in member of the Development Advisory Board of not-for-profit sectors.
He retired as senior partner June 2012 for services to the UK automotive and the RAE and of the advisory boards of the Centre of McKinsey & Company on 30 July 2010. manufacturing industries.
for European Reform, the Centre for China in the External appointments: Ian serves as a nonWorld Economy at Tsinghua University and of the External appointments: Lewis is a director of executive director on the boards of Johnson Schwarzman School at Tsinghua University.
Mondelez International, Inc. Gentherm Inc. and & Johnson Inc, BP p. l. c. and as a non-executive of University of Liverpool in America Inc. member of the Cabinet Office Board.
Dame Helen Alexander also senior adviser to Apax Partners LLP.
Sir Frank Chapman September 2007 Non-executive director, appointed November 2011 5 2.
John Rishton Skills and experience: Dame Helen was Chief Skills and experience: Sir Frank has worked in Chief Executive, appointed March 2011 Executive of the Economist Group until 2008 the oil and gas industry for 38 years including Skills and experience: John began his career in which she joined in 1985.
She was President of the appointments within Royal Dutch Shell plc and 1979 at Ford Motor Company where he held a CBI until 2011: she has also been a non-executive BP p. l. c. He was Chief Executive of BG Group plc variety of positions in the UK and in Europe.
In director of Northern Foods plc, BT Group plc and for 12 years until December 2012.
Sir Frank is a 1994 he joined British Airways Plc, where he was Centrica plc.
She was awarded a DBE in 2011 for Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2005.
Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the he was appointed CFO at Royal Ahold and became Energy Institute.
External appointments: Dame Helen is Chairman CEO in 2007.
John was appointed as a nonof UBM plc, the Port of London Authority and executive director of Rolls-Royce in 2007 and 1,2 Incisive Media.
She is also deputy chairman of 7.
Warren East CBE served as chairman of the audit committee esure Group plc and senior adviser to Bain Capital.
Non-exec utive director, appointed January 2014 and a member of the ethics and nomination Dame Helen is Chancellor of the University of Skills and experience: Warren joined ARM Holdings committees until his appointment as Chief Southampton and she is involved with a number in 1994 and was appointed Chief Executive in Executive.
He is a former non-executive director of other not-for-profit organisations in media, the 2001.
Under his leadership the company became of Allied Domecq.
internet, the arts and education.
the worlds leading semiconductor IP licensing External appointments: John was appointed company.
He retired from ARM Holdings in 2013. as a non-executive director of Unilever NV He is a Fellow of the Institute of Engineering and and Unilever plc in May 2013.
Technology, a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and a Distinguished Fellow of the BCS.
He was awarded a CBE in 2014 for services to the technology industry.
External appointments: Warren is a nonexecutive director and chairman of the audit committee of fide La Rue plc, and a non-executive director of Dyson Ltd, BT Group plc and Micron Technology Inc. Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 37 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 Committee membership 1 Audit committee 2 Nomination committee 3 Remuneration committee 4 Ethics committee 5 Risk committee 6 Safety committee Denotes chairman of committee 2,4, 6 1,2 5 8.
Mark Morris Non-executive director, appointed January 2014 Non-executive director, appointed Chief Financial Officer, appointed January 2012 November2008 Skills and experience: Hsien Yang was Chief Skills and experience: Mark joined Rolls-Royce Executive of Singapore Telecommunications Skills and experience: John is a member of the in 1986.
He has held a number of senior positions Limited for 11 years.
He served as Chairman and Council and Board of Business in the Community, throughout the Company and before his non-executive director of Fraser and Neave is Vice President of the Society of Motor appointment as Chief Financial Officer was Limited from 2007 until February 2013.
Manufacturers and Traders, BEN, the automotive Group Treasurer from 2001. industry charity and The Institute of the Motor External appointments: Hsien Yang serves as Industry.
He was formerly a director of the Bank 5 a Special Advisor of General Atlantic LLC.
Colin Smith CBE of England and a non-executive director of Royal Chairman of the Civil Aviation Authority of Director Engineering and Technology, appointed Mail and Charter International plc.
He was Singapore, General Atlantic Singapore Fund Pte July 2005 awarded a CBE in June1994.
Ltd. and The Islamic Bank of Asia Private Limited, Skills and experience: Colin joined Rolls-Royce in The Australian and New Zealand Banking Group External appointments: John is the Chairman and 1974.
He has held a variety of key positions within Ltd. and the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy.
Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of the Company, including Director Research and He is also President of the INSEAD South East Companies Limited and was appointed Chairman Technology and Director of Engineering and Asia Council.
of Atlantis Resources Limited in December 2013.
Colin is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal 2,3, 6 2, 4 9.
Jasmin Staiblin Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Non-executive director, appointed February 2008 Non-executive director, appointed May 2012 Mechanical Engineers.
He is also a Member of the Council for Science and Technology.
In Skills and experience: John was the Chief Skills and experience: Jasmin is the CEO of Alpiq June 2012 he was awarded a CBE for services Executive of ICI plc until ICIs acquisition by Holding AG and was CEO of ABB Switzerland Ltd to UKengineering.
He has held a number of positions until December 2012.
She has lived and worked at Unilever, within its Birds Eye Walls and in Switzerland, Sweden and Australia.
Unichema International businesses and is a 15.
Nigel T Goldsworthy External appointments: Jasmin is a nonformer non-executive director of Severn Trent plc Company Secretary & Head of Legal, appointed executive director of Georg Fischer AG and a and Sara Lee Corporation.
December 2012 member of the board of the Federal Institute External appointments: John is Chairman of Technology, the ETH Domain.
Skills and experience: A solicitor, Nigel has held of United Utilities Group PLC and Rentokil a number of senior legal and company secretary Initial plc and the Senior Independent Director 5 roles within the Company and, before his 12.
James Guyette of JSainsbury plc.
appointment as Company Secretary & Head of President and Chief Executive Officer of Legal, was Deputy General Counsel from 2008.
Rolls-Royce North America Inc. appointed Before joining Rolls-Royce in 2004, Nigel was a January1998 partner in the banking group of Lovells now Skills and experience: Before joining the Hogan Lovells.
Company, Jim was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
External appointments: Jim is Chairman of PrivateBancorp Inc. of Chicago, Illinois and he is lead independent director of priceline.
com Inc of Norwalk, Connecticut.
He is also Chairman Emeritus of the Smithsonian National Air & Space Museum, Washington DC.
