Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 47 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT We must continue to appoint the best candidates but we will show an increasing emphasis on recruiting candidates from more diverse backgrounds.
Ian Davis Chairman of the nomination committee I am pleased to present my first report as chairman of the Committee members and attendance nomination committee.
The nomination committee consists of all of the non-executive directors and met six times in 2013.
During the year, the committee continued to develop its succession Attendance in 2013 plans for new non-executive directors taking into account their Ian Davis Chairman appointed 1 March 2013 4 4 respective tenures of office, analysing the skills which were either Dame Helen Alexander 6 6 missing or could be missing in future and how different personalities Lewis Booth CBE 5 5 would fit around the Board table.
We are very clear that we must Peter Byrom retired 2 May 2013 2 2 continue to appoint the best candidates but we will show an Sir Frank Chapman 4 6 increasing emphasis on recruiting candidates from more diverse Iain Conn 5 6 backgrounds and with international experience.
Warren East CBE appointed 1 January 2014 n a We are pleased that Lee Hsien Yang has joined the Board as a Lee Hsien Yang appointed 1 January 2014 n a non-executive director.
Hsien Yang was already known to the Board John McAdam 6 6 as a valued member of the IAB a role that he has relinquished upon John Neill CBE 6 6 his appointment to the Board.
The committee did not therefore John Rishton 2 2 engage search consultants in connection with hisappointment.
Sir Simon Robertson retired 2 May 2013 2 2 Jasmin Staiblin 4 6 Hsien Yang will bring to our Board a wealth of business experience Ian Strachan retired 2 May 2013 2 2 in the Asian marketplace.
His biography can be found on page 37.
The Board has been further bolstered by the appointment of Warren The committee decided on July 2013 that the committee should only consist of East as a non-executive director.
Warren has extensive experience in non-executive directors and John Rishton therefore ceased to be a member.
the global technology sector and an outstanding record of business achievement that will be of great value to Rolls-Royce.
His biography Key objective: can be found on page 36.
Both Warren and Hsien Yang took up their to lead the process for appointments to the Rolls-Royce Board.
Sciteb was engaged as search consultant for Warrens appointment.
The firm has no other connection with Responsibilities: theCompany.
monitor the composition and performance of the Board and its committees: The topic of boardroom diversity has received much attention over the past two years.
In September 2011, we issued our response to evaluate the balance of skills and experience on the Board and the Davies Report on women on boards stating that we expected to the diversity of its members: make demonstrable progress in this area by 2015.
Maintaining the consider and recommend the appointment and removal right balance on the Board and getting the succession policy right is ofdirectors: high on my agenda and the Board is clear that purposeful diversity monitor executive development and succession planning: is a valuable goal.
Gender diversity is an important part of that evaluate any conflicts of interest that directors might have: and although we do not consider it appropriate to fix a specific target.
evaluate the independence of the non-executive directors and their time commitments.
We continue to participate in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme, the objective of which is to increase the pool of eligible senior female candidates for UK board positions and we have comprehensive programmes in place to increase the diversity of our internal pipeline of future leaders.
We have also issued guidance to executive search companies outlining the importance of diverse candidate short lists.
Further details of our gender representation can be found in sustainability on page 27.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 48 Directors report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, the committee reviewed the use of executive search consultants and concluded that the existing agency relationships were working well and should continue.
The overarching brief is to find candidates of international stature, with international mindsets and relevant experience who could demonstrate sound judgement and board skills with an emphasis towards greater diversity.
MWM Consulting was engaged in the search for the vacant chairmans post earlier in 2013.
A detailed brief was approved by the Board covering both the responsibilities of the role and the desired profile which formed the blueprint against which candidates were identified and assessed.
The search was broad and global in outlook, constrained only by the requirements of the brief.
Seventy candidates from tendifferent countries were actively considered.
MWM Consulting has no other connection with the Company.
In addition to the work described above, the committee also carried out the following tasks during the year: considered time commitments and potential conflicts faced by directors who wished to take up non-executive positions on the boards of other companies: authorised John Rishtons acceptance of a non-executive role atUnilever: reviewed its own terms of reference: considered the independence of the non-executive directors: considered the standing schedule of directors conflicts of interest and recommended to the Board that the schedule be approved: recommended the appointment of a new Chairman and two new non-executive directors and renewed terms of office for Dame Helen Alexander, John McAdam and Iain Conn: discussed governance arrangements for the Group and the Board evaluation process: reviewed the Boards diversity policy: and since the year end, the committee has reviewed and approved the form of this report.
Ian Davis Chairman of the nomination committee
