Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 51 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT We have benefited from the work we did in 2012 to concentrate our focus on a smaller number of risks.
John Rishton Chairman of the risk committee risks.
More focus was given to our key business continuity risks and Committee members and attendance the committee considered and assessed each of the key business The risk committee consists of all of the executive directors and continuity risks identified by the businesses and their mitigation met three times in 2013. plans.
Our discussion on IT vulnerability led us to have an in-depth Attendance in 2013 review of our IT Operations Centre and give detailed consideration John Rishton Chairman 3 3 to how IT security risks, including the growing global threat of cyber Jim Guyette 3 3 attack, are managed.
We also reviewed the committees own terms Mark Morris 3 3 of reference.
Colin Smith CBE 2 3 Risk process Other members of the Executive Leadership Team, the Director The Director of Risk leads our risk team across the Group which of Risk, the Company Secretary and the Head of Enterprise Risk is responsible for implementing risk policy and processes.
Line Management are also invited to attend meetings.
ownership for risk management is devolved to our business units and functions, supported by a network of risk champions and riskmanagers.
Key objective: Each business maintains a risk register which comprises those risks to assist the Board in determining the nature and extent that it considers are material to its objectives and operations.
The of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving its businesses regularly review the effectiveness and consistency of strategic objectives.
risk management activity via their assurance framework and the Responsibilities: application of the risk management process, all of which are subject develop and implement the Companys Risk Management to review by the business audit committees.
Each business formally strategy and policy: reviews their risks at least twice yearly taking account of work carried out by the underlying business units, programmes and review reports on key risks and monitor the total level of risk functions.
Business continuity plans are put in place by the across the Group: and businesses to mitigate continuity risks.
assess the adequacy of management plans to address the risks.
Every six months, as part of the fulland half-year results process, the risk committee reviews the key risks that the businesses and Introduction functions report in accordance with our enterprise-wide risk Each of the Groups principal risks are owned by specific members of management system.
The committee cross-checks the risks my executive team.
We continually review and challenge ourselves identified by the business with those risks it has identified from its as to whether these continue to be our principal risks and whether own assessments and concludes a list of principal risks.
During the our management of those risks remains effective.
This year, in year, the committee discusses how the risks have changed and how addition to executive directors, all members of my executive team each risk is managed, identifying where further action is required.
were invited to attend the meetings to ensure there was enhanced We have benefited from the work we did in 2012 to concentrate our visibility of the principal risks affecting the business and good focus on a smaller number of risks.
I am particularly pleased with communication of the outcomes of our discussions to each of the the way the quality of discussion at these meetings has improved businesses and functions.
The attendance of business presidents at Work of the committee in 2013 meetings has provided greater visibility across the Group of the The committee discussed all of the key risks in depth in advance of principal risks and has enabled the Group to better manage and the annual and half-year results process and produced a report on mitigate such risks.
principal risks for the Boards approval.
It also discussed the work John Rishton of the Crisis Management Team and agreed to hold more frequent Chairman of the risk committee crisis management exercises.
During the year, work continued on the development of meaningful indicators to measure the principal
