Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance principle: leadership Board members and attendance Board membership There are currently 14 directors on the Board comprising the The directors biographical details are on pages 36 and 37 which non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other demonstrate the skills and experience of the Board.
The experience executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
and knowledge of each of the directors gives them the ability to Attendance in 2013 constructively challenge strategy and scrutinise performance.
Ian Davis Chairman appointed 1 March 2013 7 7 Dame Helen Alexander 8 9 On 12 February 2014, the Board noted that Iain Conn intended to Lewis Booth CBE 9 9 retire as the Senior Independent Director and as a non-executive Peter Byrom retired 2 May 2013 4 4 director and would therefore not seek re-election at the AGM on Sir Frank Chapman 8 9 1May 2014.
The Board has resolved that Lewis Booth, subject to Iain Conn 8 9 re-election at the AGM, will succeed Iain Conn as the Senior Warren East CBE appointed 1 January 2014 n a Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM.
James Guyette 9 9 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Lee Hsien Yang appointed 1 January 2014 n a This report explains how the Company discharges its corporate John McAdam 8 9 governance responsibilities.
In the year to 31 December 2013, Mark Morris 9 9 the revised principles and provisions of the Code published in John Neill CBE 9 9 September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC applied Sir Simon Robertson retired 2 May 2013 3 4 to the Company.
John Rishton 9 9 Colin Smith CBE 9 9 Throughout the 2013 financial year, the Company did not fully Jasmin Staiblin 4 9 comply with the provisions of the Code for the following reasons: Ian Strachan retired 2 May 2013 4 4 The General Counsel and the Company Secretary are also invited Code provision Explanation to attend meetings.
Jasmin Staiblin who is based in Switzerland C. 3.5 The audit The Board considered it was unable to attend two scheduled meetings during pregnancy committee should review appropriate that this provision and three due to unavoidable diary clashes in respect of arrangements by which of the Code be the primary commitments entered into before her appointment to the Board.
staff of the company may, responsibility of the ethics in confidence, raise committee.
The ethics concerns about possible committee is, however, required Key objective: improprieties in matters to refer concerns about possible create long-term success for the Group within an acceptable of financial reporting or improprieties in matters of risk profile and provide value for the long-term investor.
financial reporting to the auditcommittee.
Responsibilities: ensure the safety of its products and people: C. 3.7 The audit The audit committee has ensure the development of strategy: committee should have considered the requirement to monitor implementation of the strategy: primary responsibility put the audit out to tender every for making a ten years.
In line with the FRCs ensure necessary resources are in place: recommendation transitional arrangements, the ensure controls exist to manage risk: on the appointment, committee will do so during the safeguard values, brand and reputation: reappointment and tenure of the current lead oversee performance of management: removal of the external partner which expires in 2017. ensure effective succession planning: auditors.
FTSE 350 The committee concluded that, agree remuneration policy: and companies should put the in order to ensure that a maintain effective governance.
external audit contract potential change in auditor is out to tender at least managed effectively, it would every ten years.
not be in the Companys interests to put the audit out to tender in 2013.
More detail can be found in the audit committee report on page 46.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 40 Directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Board committees Association, all directors will retire and put themselves forward for The Board has established a number of committees, the principal election or re-election at the AGM in 2014 with the exception of Iain ones being audit, remuneration, nomination, ethics, risk and safety.
Conn who is not seeking re-election and will retire from the Board Terms of reference for each committee are available on the Groups at the conclusion of that meeting.
Reports by committee chairmen on the activities of each of the principal committees are on The process for succession planning is discussed in the nomination pages 44 to 54.
The Chairmans introduction provides more detail committee report on page 47. on page 35 of changes to the committee structures.
The work of the Board in 2013 Senior management and advisers are invited to attend Board and During 2013, the Board held nine meetings, eight of which were committee meetings where appropriate to contribute to discussions scheduled and a further one called at short notice.
In addition, two and advise members of the Board and committees on relevant formal resolutions were passed by consent of all directors using matters.
The involvement of senior management additionally electronic means.
Non-executive directors communicate directly helps strengthen the relationship between the Board and senior with executive directors and senior management between formal management and helps to provide the Board with a greater Board meetings.
At each scheduled meeting, executive directors understanding of operations and strategy.
supplied reports on business and financial performance including the usual approval of financial statements and budgets.
The Board Internal control also received regular updates on health, safety and environment The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal HS&E and employee and legal issues, including a review of its control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from governance arrangements.
In addition, the chairman of each of the both a financial and an operational perspective.
Our risk Board committees provided reports on matters discussed by that management process is a key element of the Groups internal control committee since the previous Board meeting.
This system of internal control is designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business The Board holds an annual day-long strategy meeting, which objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance provides a forum for directors to challenge strategy and help against material misstatement or loss.
The processes we use to develop it for the future.
The strategy meeting held in September identify and manage risk are set out in the risk committee report 2013 included discussions on the ten-year financial plan and the on page 51.
The Boards report on the Groups principal risks and strategic context including market structure, competitor actions taken to mitigate them is on pages 32 to 34. positioning, cost challenges, technology and with a focus on the Civil aerospace and the Marine and Industrial Power Systems businesses.
Turnover from joint ventures constitutes an increasingly large part of our reported group activity.
Responsibility for internal control In addition to its routine business, matters considered by the Board procedures in joint ventures where we do not have a control in 2013 included: agreement lies with the managers of those operations.
We seek to Marine strategy focused on markets, costs, supply chain, product exert influence over such ventures by board representation and development and alignment with the Rolls-Royce Power Systems regularly review the activities of these ventures.
and Bergen engines businesses: The audit committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of the closure of the proposed joint venture with Pratt & Whitney: internal control for the year under review.
Further information can be updates on the referral to the Serious Fraud Office: found in the audit committee report on page 45.
The Board confirms discussion on Lord Golds interim findings, the adoption of a new that the processes and systems currently in place ensure that the Global Code of Conduct and the roll-out of a comprehensive ethics Group continues to be compliant with the Turnbull guidance as training programme to all employees: contained in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the relocation to new Groupheadquarters: Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2005. the effect of sequestration on US defence spending: Civil Nuclear business strategy: Financial reporting investors view on our AGM business: The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual restructuring of the Aerospace business: budget approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are liquidity and additional funding: reported at least quarterly.
Actual results, at both a business and the renewal of the Euro Medium Term Note programme: Group level, are reported monthly against budget and variances preliminary discussions with Wrtsil regarding a possible offer are kept under scrutiny.
for the company: and Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that cyber security.
their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
In addition, for annual reporting, business presidents and finance directors are required to confirm that their business has complied with the Groups Finance Manual.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 41 meeting, their comments on the papers to be considered are Roles and responsibilities discussed in advance with the Chairman so that their contribution The Board has a written remit for the Chairman, Ian Davis, who can be included in the wider Board discussion.
has responsibility for the running of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive, John Rishton, who has Executive Leadership Team ELT responsibility for running the business.
This division of responsibility The ELT is the senior decision-making executive committee and met ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Its membership is described on page 38.
In addition, the Board has agreed a set of guiding principles to It developed detailed strategic options for the Group culminating govern the relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive in approval of strategy by the Board in September.
It reviewed HS&E which, for example, requires that the two roles are structured in a performance, customer relations, governance, financial and complementary manner and demands that the relationship operational performance.
It also reviewed acquisitions and disposals between the two be based on mutual respect and trust and be and recommended them to the Board where required.
Each business segment holds executive meetings to review operational performance of its business, assisting the business The Senior Independent Director, Iain Conn, acts as a sounding president in taking such decisions as fall within his remit and board for the Chairman and can act as an intermediary for other reviewing proposals before presentation to the ELT or the Board directors.
He led the nomination committee in the process which for approval as appropriate.
resulted in the appointment of Ian Davis as Chairman in May 2013.
Each year, the Senior Independent Director leads a separate meeting Governance principle: effectiveness of the Board excluding the Chairman to review the Chairmans Board evaluation performance.
The Code requires that the Board undertakes an annual evaluation Role and operation of the Board of its own performance and that of its committees and individual The principal role of the Board is to ensure that the Groups strategy directors and to do so externally at least every three years.
In 2013, creates long-term success for the Group within an acceptable risk the evaluation process was again conducted internally, full profile and provides value for the long-term investor.
external reviews having been carried out by Jan Hall Associates in 2010 and 2011.
To achieve its long-term success the Board must: Initially, directors were asked to complete a confidential survey ensure the safety of its products and its people: covering the areas set out as best practice published by the Financial oversee and approve the development of the Groups strategy, Reporting Councils Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
The Company monitoring both its achievement and the Groups risk appetite: Secretary then produced a report which consolidated the responses uphold the values of the Group, including its brand and following which the Chairman conducted one-to-one interviews corporatereputation: with each director and the Senior Independent Director interviewed oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure the Chairman.
The findings were considered by the Board and it is maintained at world-class standards, through effective actions to be taken were agreed.
succession planning and remuneration policies: and maintain an effective corporate governance framework, with The evaluation concluded that the Board was proving to be effective transparent reporting.
under the leadership of Ian Davis and John Rishton and that relationships and Board discussions work well.
The principal The Board has established a formal schedule of matters reserved for recommendation was that succession planning for senior executive its approval, generally being those items which affect the shape and positions could be improved.
Other areas for improvement risk profile of the Group, as well as items such as the annual budget identified included risk processes, mitigation plans, Board papers and performance targets, the financial statements, payments to and governance.
shareholders, major capital investments, substantial changes to balance sheet management policy and the strategic plan.
This Directors terms of appointment schedule of matters reserved is reviewed annually.
Executive directors are employees who have day-to-day responsibilities as executives of the Group in addition to their duties John Rishton, as the Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-to-day as directors.
Each executive director receives a service contract on leadership, operational and performance management of the Group appointment see pages 60 and 61 for further information.
within the confines of the strategy, business plans and budgets agreed by the Board.
The delegation of responsibilities to the Non-executive directors are generally independent of the Company, executive team is set out in a detailed schedule approved by the are not employees and do not participate in the daily business Chief Executive.
On appointment, each non-executive director receives a letter setting out the conditions of his or her Information is supplied to directors in a manner which enables them appointment.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial to fulfil their responsibilities.
This includes the circulation of papers term of three years, which may be extended with the agreement of to be discussed, generally one week before meetings.
Presentations the Board, although reappointment is not automatic.
Their term are made by senior management at Board meetings on business, of office is also subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the financial and operating issues.
Directors are expected to attend all AGM and will terminate without compensation if they fail to be meetings of the Board and the committees on which they sit and to re-elected see page 60 for further information.
devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as directors.
If directors are unable to attend a Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 42 Directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Director training The Board believes it can be appropriate for executive directors to Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction take non-executive positions in other companies and organisations, programme as detailed in the table below and receive a as such appointments should broaden their experience.
The comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the appointment to such positions is subject to the approval of the Group.
An existing executive director can act as a mentor to each Chairman and the Board and must not conflict with a directors newly appointed non-executive director, giving guidance and duties and commitments to the Company.
Conflicts of interest Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can Issues Facilitated by have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may Operation of the Board Chairman and Company conflict, with the interests of the Company unless that situational andgovernance Secretary conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The nomination Group strategy development Chief Executive committee has reviewed and authorised all directors situational and current issues conflicts and has agreed that while directors are required to keep confidential all Company information, they shall not be required to Financial structure Chief Financial Officer share with the Company confidential information received by them Risk strategy General Counsel from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
Operational strategy Operations Director Technology and Director Engineering Governance principle: accountability engineeringissues andTechnology The directors consider the annual report and accounts, taken as Key site visits Company Secretary a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Committee technical Committee chairmen, internal information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys requirements or external experts performance, business model and strategy.
Investor relations Further training is available for directors, including presentations Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy by the executive team on particular aspects of the business.
In 2013, and financial performance are co-ordinated by a dedicated Investor the Board received training in ethics conducted by our Head of Relations department that reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
In December 2013, our corporate lawyers, Slaughter Communications regarding the general administration of and May, held a seminar immediately following the Board meeting shareholdings are co-ordinated by the Company Secretary.
to update the Board on developments in corporate law and The Group conducts a dedicated investor relations programme with regulation.
In addition, there is a procedure for directors to take institutional investors which includes various formal events during independent professional advice at the Companys expense and the year, as well as a regular series of one-to-one and group every director has access to the General Counsel and to the Company meetings.
The purpose of these events is to highlight a particular Secretary who is responsible to the Board on corporate governance.
issue, theme or announcement that the Group believes warrants All directors are advised of changes in legislation, regulation and further explanation or clarification.
The events also provide changing risks with the assistance of the Companys advisers where opportunities for shareholders to meet members of the senior necessary.
In-house training is provided to directors of the management team.
Examples of these events in 2013 were: the Companys subsidiaries and joint ventures.
preliminary and half-year results announcements: the AGM: the Independence of the non-executive directors update given at the Paris Air Show on trends in the Civil and Defence The Board conducts a rigorous review of the independence of aerospace businesses: visits to certain of the Groups sites: and the non-executive directors every year, based on the criteria in industry conferences.
The one-to-one and group meetings provide the Code.
This review was undertaken in November 2013 and the additional context around the Groups business strategy and Board concluded that all the non-executive directors remained financial performance.
independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman met the In 2013, over 380 meetings took place with over 340 separately Codes independence criteria upon his election as Chairman in May identifiable institutional investors.
The majority of meetings took 2013.
His other external commitments are described on page 36. place in the UK 273, 81 meetings were in the USA and Canada, Non-executive directors are advised of the time required to fulfil the and a further 26 meetings took place in Europe.
The Chairman also role and are asked to confirm that they can make the required meets institutional investors from time-to-time.
commitment before the appointment is made.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors is able to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 43 Shareholder communications Borrowings and other financial instruments Information about the Group is available on the Groups website The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by www.
com and in the published annual report, an online various banks.
These facilities generally include provisions which version of which is also available on the website.
The website may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the contains financial and other information about the Group including alteration or termination of the facility upon the occurrence of current business strategy, historical financial data, and recent a change of control of the Company.
At 31 December 2013 these presentation materials together with information on the Groups facilities were less than 35percent drawn 2012 30percent.
The Group has entered into a series of financial instruments to Over 20,000 Rolls-Royce shareholders have registered their email hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity exposures.
These addresses with etree so that they benefit from immediate contracts provide for termination or alteration if a change of communication of the posting of our preliminary results and of the control of the Company materially weakens the creditworthiness publication of our notice of meetings and our online annual report.
This reduces our printing and mailing costs as well as our carbon Employee share plans footprint.
We would encourage other shareholders to register for In the event of a change of control of the Company, the effect on this service by following the instructions on the etree website at the employee share plans would be as follows: www.
PSP awards would vest pro rata to service in the performance Annual general meeting AGM period, subject to remuneration committee judgement of Group All holders of ordinary shares are invited to attend the Companys performance: AGM.
The Chief Executive gives a presentation highlighting key APRA deferred shares the shares would be released from trust business developments during the year and shareholders have an immediately: opportunity to ask questions.
All directors normally attend the AGM ShareSave options would become exercisable immediately.
The and the chairmen of the audit, nomination, remuneration, ethics, new company might offer an equivalent option in exchange for safety and risk committees are available to answer any questions cancellation of the existing option: and from shareholders on the work of their committees.
Share Incentive Plan SIP consideration received as shares The Company sends the AGM notice and relevant documentation to would be held within the SIP, if possible, otherwise the all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
consideration would be treated as a disposal from the SIP.
For shareholders who have consented to receive communications Payment to shareholders electronically, notice is given by email or by written notice of the At the AGM on 1May 2014, the directors will recommend an issue availability of documents on the Groups website.
of 134 C Shares with a total nominal value of 13.4 pence for each This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, 1 May 2014 at ordinary share.
The final issue of C Shares will be made on 1July the QEII Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London 2014 to shareholders on the register on 25 April 2014 and the final SW1P 3EE.
The AGM notice and the annual report will be available to day of trading with entitlement to C Shares is 22 April 2014. view on the Groups website.
Shareholders unable to attend the AGM Together with the interim issue on 2 January 2014 of 86 C Shares can vote on the business of the meeting either by post or online.
for each ordinary share with a total nominal value of 8.6 pence, this is the equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary Shareholders and share capital shareholders of 22 pence for each ordinary share.
Information on shareholders and share capital, which also forms part of the Corporate Governance report, is detailed on pages 70 The payment to shareholders will, as before, be made in the form and 71. of redeemable C Shares which shareholders may either choose to retain or redeem for a cash equivalent.
The Registrar, on behalf of Change of control the Company, operates a C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP and can, Contracts and joint venture agreements on behalf of shareholders, purchase ordinary shares from the There are a number of contracts and joint venture agreements market rather than delivering a cash payment.
Shareholders wishing which would allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those to redeem their C Shares or else redeem and participate in the CRIP arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
must ensure that their instructions are lodged with the Registrar, The terms of those arrangements are commercially confidential Computershare Investor Services PLC, no later than 5.00pm on and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Redemption will take place on 3 July 2014.
