Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 52 Corporate governance continued aUdit Committee sUmmary of 2013 aUdit Committee BUsiness Month Principal activities Review of the full year accounts including material March judgments and estimates, the draft Annual Report 2012, governance reports and draft results announcements.
Internal controls and risk management review including consideration of processes and procedures for risk management, effectiveness of internal controls and fraud risk.
Review of internal audit reports, the internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness, and of the need for a separate internal audit function.
Consideration of and reporting to the Board on the Chairman: JE Nicholas external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the annual audit.
The Members: GB Bullard, SA James, IG King auditors representation letter, views on the control environment and fraud risk management: and During 2013, the Committee focused on the integrity of the reappointment of the external auditor, including Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal and whether it is appropriate to put the external audit external audit.
We have monitored changes in governance contract out to tender.
requirements, in particular those relating to audit tendering.
The Meeting with the external auditor without the Committees tendering plans are set out in the following report.
Consideration of accounting and corporate All Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Review of non-audit services undertaken by the The Board considers JE Nicholas, the Chairman of the Committee external auditor.
to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He and IG King both hold a professional accounting qualification.
Biographies of April Interim Management Statement review.
each member of the Committee can be found on pages 42 to 43.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and external Review of the interim accounts including material August auditor also regularly attend meetings by invitation.
judgments, estimates and draft results announcements.
Internal controls and risk management review The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which including reviewing policies and procedures for are reviewed annually.
A copy of the terms of reference is available preventing bribery and corruption and on the Rotork website www.
Principal responsibilities consideration of significant internal audit reports.
are to review and report to the Board on: Review of external auditors report on the interim The integrity of financial reporting: accounts and the proposed full year external audit Significant accounting policies and judgements: scope, key risks, materiality and year-end issues.
Internal control and risk management systems including Review of non-audit services undertaken by the monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit: external auditor.
The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the Meeting with the external auditor without the presence of management.
external auditor, including the policy relating to non-audit work Consideration of accounting and corporate and policy relating to employment of former staff of the governance developments.
external auditor: Consideration of future plans regarding submitting The external auditors remuneration: and the external audit for tender.
November Interim Management Statement review.
Activities of the Audit Committee during the year 2 meetings Internal controls and risk management review The Committee met five times during the year.
A summary of including key risks and mitigating controls: principal activities is set out opposite: processes and procedures for risk management and consideration of significant internal audit reports.
Review of the policy on employment of former audit staff and policy on and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Consideration of the external auditors fees, engagement letter and risk of them leaving the market.
Review of whistleblowing policy and hotline Annual review of Audit Committee effectiveness and Terms of Reference.
Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments.
Consideration of Audit Committee Schedule of Work 2014.
Strategic Report 01-41 53 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Corporate governance continued Financial Reporting External Auditor A key role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to KPMG and its predecessor firms have been auditor to the Group review the quality and appropriateness of the interim and year end for over fifty years and during this time a tender has not been financial statements with a particular focus on: conducted.
The fees for this work carried out by KMPG are set out Accounting policies and practices: in note 8 of the report and accounts.
The clarity of disclosures and compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, UK company law and the UK During 2013, the Committee considered how to achieve a high Corporate Governance Code: quality audit for the Group as a whole and decided to bring all Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied external audit work under one firm.
The Committee considers that or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: and the appropriate means of achieving this is to offer all the external Upon request of the Board, advising the Board on whether the audit work for tender.
annual report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for The Committee also considered the timing and process of the shareholders to assess the Companys performance as a whole.
tender against a background of substantial regulatory developments.
It concluded that it was in the best interests of the To assist the Committee, the Finance Director presents a detailed Group to commence the tender process following the publication report at each meeting outlining significant matters and the of the 2013 results.
It also concluded that, in view of the extensive external auditor presents a report on the work they have period that KPMG has been auditor and the pending EU regulatory undertaken.
change which is likely to require a change of auditor, KPMG would not be invited to tender.
Pending the selection and appointment of The principal matters of judgement considered by the Committee a new audit firm, the Board is recommending the appointment of in relation to the 2013 accounts and how they were addressed KPMG at the AGM.
The result of the tender and appropriate were: transition arrangements will be advised in due course.
The year end balance sheet includes Goodwill of 105m, this represents approximately The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit 21.7% of the Group assets.
The Committee reviewed the process and the quality of the audit work throughout the year.
carrying value of Goodwill by examining a report from the Finance Director which set out the values attributable to each The assessment considers: cash generating unit, the expected value in use, based on Any issues arising from the prior year audit: projected cash flows and the key economic assumptions related The proposed audit plan including identification of risks specific to growth rates and discount values.
The Committee also to Rotork, audit scope and materiality thresholds: considered the work undertaken by KPMG in testing the Staffing continuity and experience: projections.
The delivery of the audit in line with the plan: Matters arising during the audit and the communication of The Committee discussed the appropriateness of the these to the Committee: assumptions used and compared expected growth rates to Feedback from executive management: historic averages and the discount rate to the Group weighted Private meetings with the auditor without management being average cost of capital and appropriate risk premiums.
The present: Committee also considered whether it was possible that a The independence, objectivity and scepticism of the auditor: and reasonable change in assumptions might indicate impairment.
The FRC audit quality review report on selected audits The Committee challenged the use of a single discount rate for undertaken by KPMG.
the Group but after discussion, it was satisfied that the assumptions and the disclosures in the report and accounts Having completed this review, the Committee agreed that the were appropriate.
audit process, independence and quality were satisfactory.
During 2013, the Group acquired four businesses, the largest of these was Schischek which was acquired in January.
The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting in relation to these acquisitions, in particular the determination and valuation of intangible assets.
The Committee considered this report together with comments from KPMG: it also examined the disclosures in the report and accounts and concluded the judgements made were reasonable and that the reporting was accurate.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 54 Corporate governance continued Non-Audit Services Other Matters In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee carried auditor, the Board has adopted a policy on non-audit services which out a review of its effectiveness, including how it discharged its restricts the work and fees available to the external audit firm.
responsibilities and terms of reference.
The Committees activities were also reviewed as part of the external review of Board The policy specifies certain activities which the external auditor effectiveness during the year.
Details of this process can be found may not undertake such as work relating to financial statements on page 50. which may be subject to external audits or management or significant involvement with internal audit services.
Throughout the year, the Committee also considered relevant accounting and corporate governance developments.
For work within the policy scope, namely anything other than audit, half year review or tax compliance work, authority has been delegated to the Finance Director to approve fees of up to 10,000 per project or 40,000 in aggregate for general work, 50,000 in aggregate for tax work and 10,000 for acquisition related work.
Non-audit work above these levels requires the prior approval of the Committee Chairman or the Committee as a whole.
At each Committee meeting, a summary is provided of all non-audit services awarded to KPMG during the year.
An analysis of fees paid to KPMG, including the split between audit and non-audit is included in note 8 of the report and accounts.
The total non-audit fees for 2013 represent 51% of the audit fee paid.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups control environment, internal audit and risk management process.
During the year, the Committee considered reports on internal control from the Finance Director and reports on procedures to prevent bribery and corruption from the Company Secretary.
The Committee was satisfied with the arrangements in place.
The Group does not have a separate independent internal audit function but does have a well established internal audit approach of using staff from one division to undertake audits in a different division.
This arrangement encourages the sharing of best practice and provides career development for the staff involved.
External resource is used to supplement the internal team where specific technical or language expertise is required.
The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the activities of internal audit, any significant matters arising and the management response.
The Committee reviews each year, the internal audit arrangements including the annual audit plan and staffing.
It also considers whether a separate internal audit activity is required.
The Committee recognises that the increasing size of the Group is likely to require some dedicated internal audit resource in the future but it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the current arrangements at this time.
The Group has operated a risk management process for several years.
The process draws on divisional operating management considering and assessing the risks in each of their businesses.
This leads in due course to a Group meeting at which the principal risks, mitigation and management are reviewed.
All Committee members are invited to this meeting and in 2013 three members attended.
The Committee gains a detailed understanding of the risk management process and considers the process effective.
