Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 52 Corporate governance continued aUdit Committee sUmmary of 2013 aUdit Committee BUsiness Month Principal activities Review of the full year accounts including material March judgments and estimates, the draft Annual Report 2012, governance reports and draft results announcements.
Internal controls and risk management review including consideration of processes and procedures for risk management, effectiveness of internal controls and fraud risk.
Review of internal audit reports, the internal audit programme, its remit, resourcing and effectiveness, and of the need for a separate internal audit function.
Consideration of and reporting to the Board on the Chairman: JE Nicholas external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness including the annual audit.
The Members: GB Bullard, SA James, IG King auditors representation letter, views on the control environment and fraud risk management: and During 2013, the Committee focused on the integrity of the reappointment of the external auditor, including Groups financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal and whether it is appropriate to put the external audit external audit.
We have monitored changes in governance contract out to tender.
requirements, in particular those relating to audit tendering.
The Meeting with the external auditor without the Committees tendering plans are set out in the following report.
Consideration of accounting and corporate All Committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Review of non-audit services undertaken by the The Board considers JE Nicholas, the Chairman of the Committee external auditor.
to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He and IG King both hold a professional accounting qualification.
Biographies of April Interim Management Statement review.
each member of the Committee can be found on pages 42 to 43.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and external Review of the interim accounts including material August auditor also regularly attend meetings by invitation.
judgments, estimates and draft results announcements.
Internal controls and risk management review The Committee operates under formal terms of reference which including reviewing policies and procedures for are reviewed annually.
A copy of the terms of reference is available preventing bribery and corruption and on the Rotork website www.
Principal responsibilities consideration of significant internal audit reports.
are to review and report to the Board on: Review of external auditors report on the interim The integrity of financial reporting: accounts and the proposed full year external audit Significant accounting policies and judgements: scope, key risks, materiality and year-end issues.
Internal control and risk management systems including Review of non-audit services undertaken by the monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit: external auditor.
The appointment, independence and effectiveness of the Meeting with the external auditor without the presence of management.
external auditor, including the policy relating to non-audit work Consideration of accounting and corporate and policy relating to employment of former staff of the governance developments.
external auditor: Consideration of future plans regarding submitting The external auditors remuneration: and the external audit for tender.
November Interim Management Statement review.
Activities of the Audit Committee during the year 2 meetings Internal controls and risk management review The Committee met five times during the year.
A summary of including key risks and mitigating controls: principal activities is set out opposite: processes and procedures for risk management and consideration of significant internal audit reports.
Review of the policy on employment of former audit staff and policy on and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
Consideration of the external auditors fees, engagement letter and risk of them leaving the market.
Review of whistleblowing policy and hotline Annual review of Audit Committee effectiveness and Terms of Reference.
Consideration of accounting and corporate governance developments.
Consideration of Audit Committee Schedule of Work 2014.
