Strategic Report 01-41 55 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Corporate governance continued nomination Committee Chairman: RC Lockwood Diversity Policy The Board is committed to maintaining an appropriate balance of Members: GB Bullard, PI France, SA James, IG King, JE Nicholas skills and experience on its Board through a diverse mix of skills, experience, knowledge and background.
In considering diversity, The Nomination Committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments and making recommendations to the gender will play an important role but the Board will take account of ethnicity, nationality, background, profession and personality.
Board: ensuring succession planning is in place: reviewing the balance of skills and experience on the Board: regularly reviewing The Board will take a number of voluntary actions to improve the structure, size and composition of the Board, including its balance of skills, knowledge and experience and making diversity including: only using external search consultants where such consultants are engaged to make an appointment which recommendations as appropriate.
have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and assisting the development of the executive Activities of the Committee during the year The Committee formally met once during the year and considered pipeline by encouraging senior employees to take on additional the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and roles, such as seeking non-executive director roles, to gain valuable improvements that could be made in that regard.
The Committee also considered succession planning in order to More generally throughout the organisation, the Diversity Policy satisfy itself that plans are in place for an orderly succession for also states other actions the Group will take including training appointments to the Board and senior management to maintain an management on diversity by the end of 2014, providing senior appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group and to mentors to employees progressing through the Group to guide ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
career progression and, through the use of technology, promoting flexible working arrangements.
It is expected that these actions will All members of the Committee were involved in discussions contribute to a more diverse pool of talent throughout the Group.
concerning consideration of an appropriate shortlist of external search consultants to advise the Committee and during the year, remUneration Committee following this review exercise, Korn Ferry were appointed as the The work of the Remuneration Committee is described in the Committees external search consultants.
Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69 of the Report of the Directors.
Following the appointment of Korn Ferry, they were briefed on a search for an additional non-executive director and this activity was ongoing to year end and beyond.
