RPC Group Plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe gOvernAnce PRInCIPles sTaTeMenT The Board recognises and fully supports the value of good corporate governance as an important factor in achieving its overall objectives.
Inaccordance with the Financial Conduct Authority UK Listing Rules a statement describing how the Company has applied the Main Principles contained in the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council available at www.
uk andthe statements required by sections 7.1 and 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out in this report together with the Directors report, Operating and Financial reviews, Corporate Responsibility report and the Remuneration report.
sTaTeMenT oF CoMPlIanCe With the exceptions set out below, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review references are given to the relevant Code provision : C. 3.1 Following the retirement from the Board of P S Wood on 31 March 2012, the Audit Committee membership reduced from three to twoindependent non-executive directors as there were only two independent non-executive directors remaining on the Board.
Themembership increased to three with the appointment of I Haaijer as an independent non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee on 30 May 2012.
There were no Committee meetings held during this period where there were only two members inattendance.
D. 1.5 Notice in the event of a change of control for P R M Vervaat exceeded one year and did not revert to one year after an initial period ofemployment for the period from his appointment until 30 June 2012.
With effect from 1 July 2012 notice in the event of a change of control is one year and therefore the Company has been in compliance with this Code provision since that date.
D. 2.1 Following the retirement from the Board of P S Wood on 31 March 2012, the Remuneration Committee membership reduced from three to two independent non-executive directors.
On 1 April 2012 the Company Chairman, J R P Pike, who was independent on appointment, was appointed as a member but not as chair of the Committee.
The membership increased to three independent non-executive directors following the appointment of I Haaijer as a director and member of the Remuneration Committee on 30 May 2012 and JRPPike ceased to be a member of the Committee on the same date.
There was one Committee meeting held during this period wherethere were only two independent non-executive directors in attendance.
leaDeRsHIP THe Role oF THe BoaRD The Board is principally concerned with the overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group in order to promote the success of the Group for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole within a framework of effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Groups strategic objectives, ensures that the necessary resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives, reviews management performance and ensures that high ethical standards of behaviour are followed.
In its decision-making processes, the Board takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the interests of the Companys employees, relationships with suppliers and customers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment and maintaining the Companys reputation for high standards of business conduct.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: approval of the Groups objectives, strategic plans and annual budgets: authorisation of material acquisitions, disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, contracts and transactions: approving changes to the Groups capital structure, listing and legal and organisational structure: approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and the day-to-day operations of the Group are delegated to management.
During the year under review, since the appointment of I Haaijer independent non-executive director on 30 May 2012, the Board has consisted of six directors being a non-executive Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The names and biographical details of the directors are shown on page 38 and 39.
The significant commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and non-executive directors are given in their biographies.
Changes to such commitments are reported to the Board as they arise.
The Board meets at least six times each year.
In addition, a meeting is held specifically to discuss Group strategy.
Normally at least one meeting iscombined with a visit to an operating unit and the opportunity to meet the local management team.
The directors review the frequency of meetings each year as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year andattendance by their members is given in the table below.
Directors who are unable to attend a meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman with their comments before the meeting.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 41 Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Non-executive directors 1 J R P Pike 7 7 6 6 1 1 n a n a 1 I Haaijer 7 7 4 4 6 6 4 4 S Rojahn 7 7 6 6 7 7 4 4 M G Towers 7 7 6 6 7 7 4 4 Executive directors 2 R J e Marsh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 P R M Vervaat 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 Number of meetings held and attended while a member of the Remuneration Committee J R P Pike or since appointed to the Board I Haaijer.
2 The executive directors did not attend a Board meeting held to consider the succession of the Chief executive.
The main areas of business dealt with by the Board during the year other than routine matters included: Continued development of the Groups strategy and objectives including exploring opportunities for further organic and acquisitive growth.
Considering succession of the Chief executive and Finance Director.
Monitoring the integration of the Superfos businesses into the Group which was completed during the year including the closure of Superfos Runcorn in the UK.
Acquisition of the Manuplastics business enhancing the Groups UK manufacturing and sales base for personal care.
Withdrawal from the loss-making vending cups market in mainland Europe and the closure of the site at Kajrpc Hungary and restructuring ofoperations at Deventer the Netherlands and Bouxwiller France.
Sale of loss making automotive parts business at Neutraubling Germany.
Approving and monitoring the Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme, including optimising the pan-european thermoforming andinjection moulded spreads businesses resulting in the planned closure of the sites at Antwerp Belgium and Beuningen the Netherlands and transfer of business to other sites and cost efficiency restructuring at other operations in the Group.
Monitoring the risks faced by the Group including the macro-economic environment particularly in the UK and the eurozone, and the effects of the weakening of the euro and movements in polymer prices.
Approving investment in capital projects including expansion of facilities at Morgantown USA and new products such as dispensers and jars forthe personal care market and in-mould labelled, injection-moulded tubs for the spreads market.
Approving a 60m bilateral term loan currently undrawn expected to provide additional credit facilities for expansion through acquisition.
CHaIRMan anD CHIeF exeCUTIve The non-executive Chairman of the Board is J R P Pike and during the year under review the Chief executive was R J e Marsh.
On 1 May 2013 RJeMarsh stepped down as Chief executive and P R M Vervaat acceded to the role.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief executive are clearly defined and set out in a written statement on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief executive approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective running of the Board and itsdecision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and probity, for setting its agenda and the style and tone of Board discussions.
The role includes: leading the Board in determining strategy and the achievement of the Groups objectives, while ensuring that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks associated with the implementation of its strategy: creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and safeguarding their interests: ensuring that directors keep their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group up to date: regularly considering succession planning and the composition of the Board: and ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chief executive is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Groups business, except for matters specifically reserved for the Board.
The Board considered that on appointment, J R P Pike met the independence criteria set out in provision B.
In January 2013, JRPPike was appointed as Chairman of Lafarge Tarmac Limited, a 50:50 joint venture between Lafarge and Anglo American in the UK.
The Board issatisfied that the Chairmans external commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties to the Company.
The Chairman held formal and informal meetings with the non-executive directors during the year to discuss Board related matters, including executive director succession, without the executive directors present.
RPC Group Plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe gOvernAnce continued THe Role oF non-exeCUTIve DIReCToRs The Company had three non-executive directors at the date of this report whose role, in addition to the general duties and responsibilities of directors, is to: constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy: scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance: ensure the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determine appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive directors and in succession planning: uphold high standards of integrity and probity and support the Chairman and the other directors in instilling the appropriate culture, values and behaviour in the boardroom and beyond: insist on receiving high-quality information sufficiently in advance of Board meetings: and take into account the views of shareholders and other stakeholders where appropriate.
senIoR InDePenDenT DIReCToR M G Towers was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders on request and to enable shareholders to voice any concerns that contact through the normal investor communication channels of Chairman, Chief executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director provides support for the Chairman on Board matters.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors have met informally at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
BoaRD CoMMITTees There are three principal Board committees, all of which operate under written terms of reference which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
The terms of reference, performance and membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed and, if appropriate, updated each year by the relevant committee and the Board.
The terms of reference for all three committees were updated during the year in accordance with best practice.
The revised terms are available on the Companys website www.
Onlymembers of a committee are entitled to attend meetings but each committee may invite other directors, managers or advisers to attend.
TheCompany Secretary is secretary to all three committees.
Sufficient resources are provided to enable the committees to undertake their duties and they have authority to appoint independent professional advisers or consultants when required.
The Chairman of the relevant committee reports on the proceedings and any recommendations made at the subsequent Board meeting.
DIReCToRs InDeMnITIes anD InsURanCe CoveR The Board reviews the level of insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Groups directors and officers and senior management on an annual basis.
The Board has also provided indemnities to the directors which are described on page 62 of the Directors report.
eFFeCTIveness BoaRD CoMPosITIon anD InDePenDenCe Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, independent non-executive directors comprised at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The independent non-executive directors throughout the year were S Rojahn and M G Towers.
On 30 May 2012 I Haaijer was appointed as an independent non-executive director.
The independent non-executive directors bring valuable knowledge, a broad range of experience and strong, independent character and judgement to the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considered that all these directors, including MGTowers, who since December 2009 holds a non-executive directorship in Tyman plc formerly Lupus Capital plc in common with J R P Pike, metthe criteria for independence set out in provision B.
1.1 of the Code and there were no other relationships or circumstances which were likely toaffect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Nomination Committee reviews the size, composition and balance of the Board each year and recommends any changes for the directors toconsider.
Despite its relatively small size, the Board comprises directors with a wide range of managerial and professional experience from accounting, finance and consultancy to manufacturing, engineering and personal care.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, europe and in the USA, South America, India and the Far east.
Two of the directors are Dutch nationals and one is German and, since 30 May 2012, there are both male and female members of the Board.
The Board has endorsed the policy on diversity, including gender, recommended by the Nomination Committee.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 43 noMInaTIon CoMMITTee The members of the Nomination Committee and its Chairman are as follows: Name From To J R P Pike Chairman 23 July 2008 To date S Rojahn 25 May 2006 To date M G Towers 1 April 2009 To date I Haaijer 30 May 2012 To date The Committee meets at least twice each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and theattendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 41.
The Chief executive and Finance Director attended meetings byinvitation.
During the year the Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: review and make recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board: give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior managers: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: identify and nominate for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board and senior management vacancies as and when they arise: annually review the time required from non-executive directors and evaluate the membership and performance of the Board and its committees:and recommend the re-appointment of non-executive directors and re-election of directors.
each year the Committee reviews the Boards structure, size, composition and balance and the membership of Board committees.
It also reviews the performance of the Board, its committees and the individual directors, the independence of non-executive directors and time commitment required from them and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee considers plans for the succession of directors and senior managers including the identification of internal managers who may be suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills and experience.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, re-appointments and re-election of directors.
Recommendations for re-appointment and re-election are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the need to progressively refresh theBoard.
The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations made by Lord Davies in his Report on Women on Boards and the amendments made to the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council on diversity on boards including gender.
The policy recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of different nationalities, experience in a variety of business sectors and european and global markets and diversity on the Board, including gender.
During the year the Committee concluded the search for a new non-executive director to refresh the composition of the Board and to provide for thesuccession of non-executive directors.
external search consultants, KORN FeRRY Whitehead Mann, had been engaged to search for suitable candidates with financial or operational experience with the aim of including women in the shortlist of suitable candidates.
I Haaijer was selected and recommended to the Board after interviews of a shortlist of candidates matching the description of the role and appropriate due diligence.
TheCommittee also recommended and the Board subsequently approved I Haaijers appointment to the Boards committees.
A summary of her career is given in her biography on page 39.
On 1 October 2012, the Board received and accepted formal notification from R J e Marsh of his intention to retire with effect from 1 October 2013.
The Nomination Committee carefully considered the succession of the Chief executive and concluded that the position would not be advertised externally and recommended that P R M Vervaat, who had five years experience of the business of the Group and the appropriate knowledge and skills to fulfil the role of Chief executive of the Company, be appointed.
The Board approved the recommendation of the Committee.
In consultation with P R M Vervaat, the Committee appointed external search consultants, KORN FeRRY Whitehead Mann, and agreed a job description and attributes for the role of Finance Director.
The Committee drew on the financial expertise of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, MG Towers, who interviewed a shortlist of suitable potential candidates prepared by the consultants together with P R M Vervaat and put forward their recommendations to the Committee.
Following interviews by all members of the Nomination Committee, S J Kesterton was selected and recommended, subject to appropriate due diligence, and the Board subsequently approved his appointment as Group Finance Director designate with effect from 1 April 2013.
RPC Group Plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe gOvernAnce continued The opportunity to appoint S J Kesterton permitted the Committee and the Board to agree an earlier transition than previously contemplated.
Consequently, with the agreement of the Committee, the Board and the other relevant parties, R J e Marsh stepped down as Chief executive on 1May 2013 and will remain on the Board until formally retiring as a director at the AGM on 10 July 2013.
P R M Vervaat acceded to the role of Chiefexecutive on 1 May 2013 and S J Kesterton became Group Finance Director on the same date.
The Boards policy is that all the directors should submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
The Committee has recommended andthe Board has approved resolutions for the re-election of P R M Vervaat and all three independent non-executive directors, following reviews oftheir performance, and the election of S J Kesterton at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board has recommended the re-election of the Chairman, JRPPike, following a review of his performance led by the Senior Independent Director, at the AGM.
KORN FeRRY Whitehead Mann has no other connection with the Company other than as external search consultants to the Nomination Committee for the recruitment of the directors described above.
aPPoInTMenT, eleCTIon anD Re-eleCTIon oF DIReCToRs The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending new appointments to the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all directors appointed to the Board, other than at the Annual General Meeting AGM, are required to retire at the following AGM when they may offer themselves for election: thereafter they must submit themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, with the exception of R J e Marsh who will retire as a director at the conclusion of the AGM on 10 July 2013, all the directors in office at the date of this Report will submit themselves for election or re-election on an individual basis at the forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, re-appointment of non-executive directors and setting their remuneration, which consists solely of directors fees.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for re-appointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
Although S J Kesterton has only recently been appointed to the Board, he is undergoing an intensive induction programme and is already making avaluable contribution to the Board as a result of his commercial and financial skills gained from operating in a competitive international manufacturing environment.
Since he was appointed after the last AGM the Board is recommending him for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Following the formal evaluation of each of the other directors in office at the date of this report, the Board recommends their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All the non-executive directors continue to be effective and demonstrate independence of character and judgement and commitment to the role.
Biographical details of all of the directors are given on pages 38 and 39.
Further information on the contribution made by each director to the Board may be found in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on page 118.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving executive directors service contracts.
Details of these contracts are given in the Remuneration report.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and terms and conditions of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
InFoRMaTIon anD PRoFessIonal DeveloPMenT The Board is provided with relevant information on the activities of the Group in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is a procedure established for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
In addition, all Board members have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also includes ensuring good information flows within the Board and committees and between executive and non-executive directors and facilitating induction as required.
Newly appointed directors receive a formal induction tailored to the needs of the Group following good practice guidance on induction.
On appointment, directors receive information about the Group including the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Boards committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures, the latest financial information about the Group and training in the duties and responsibilities of directors of listed companies.
For non-executive directors, this is supplemented by meetings with executive directors and senior executives and visits to key locations with the opportunity to meet local management to assist in the process of learning about the business.
Throughout their period of office directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, corporate responsibility and sustainability matters and other changes affecting the Group, its markets, manufacturing processes and the industry.
All directors have access to training in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
The Company Secretary briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant changes to corporate laws and regulations and facilitates professional development by regularly circulating details of and arranging attendance at seminars.
executive directors also attend seminars on topics of particular relevance to their roles.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 45 PeRFoRManCe evalUaTIon The Board conducts an annual review of its performance and that of its committees and the individual directors.
For 2012 13, the review was undertaken for the first time by an external facilitator, Independent Audit Limited, a firm of specialist board governance consultants.
They do not have any other connection with the Company.
The review was based on a combination of questionnaires and interviews.
Independent Audits Thinking Board questionnaire platform was initiallyused to gauge the views of the directors and certain key executives and to provide a benchmark for next years review.
Interviews were subsequently held to follow up this exercise.
Independent Audit also observed a Board meeting and considered the quality of Board papers.
Thereview covered key areas of Board and committee performance including: the Boards role: composition, skills and dynamics: the focus of the Boards work: meetings: information and decision-making: and internal and external communications.
The committee reviews considered their remit, membership, support and performance.
The Board and committee reviews were undertaken in January 2013 and Independent Audit reported back their findings at the March Board meeting.
Their overall assessment was that the Board and its committees were performing well, and no high priority recommendations were made.
A number of actions were identified that should continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board, including greater consideration of succession planning and developing greater interaction between the Board and cluster management.
Progress on these matters will be periodically reviewed by the Board.
Drawing on the Board and committee reviews and using individual director questionnaires, the Chairman undertook a review of the performance of each of the directors.
The Senior Independent Director undertook a review of the performance of the Chairman after taking into account the views of all the directors.
The results of these individual reviews and any improvements or personal objectives were discussed with the relevant directors on a one-to-one basis.
The Board intends to engage an external facilitator again in three years time.
Next years review will be conducted internally, with the focus being on progress against the 2012 13 Thinking Board assessment and the areas identified for improvement in this years review.
aCCoUnTaBIlITY aUDIT CoMMITTee The members of the Audit Committee and its Chairman are as follows: Name From To M G Towers Chairman 1 April 2009 To date S Rojahn 1 April 2009 To date I Haaijer 30 May 2012 To date The Board is satisfied that M G Towers, a chartered accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience and has extensive experience in senior finance roles.
The Committee meets at least three times each year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
The number of meetings held during the year and the attendance of members of the Committee are shown in the table on page 41.
The external auditors attend meetings of the Committee, other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The Finance Director, other members of the Board, the Group Controller and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate.
The Committee meets with the auditors without any other directors or management present at least twice each year.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in accordance with best practice.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: monitor the financial reporting process including the integrity and clarity of the financial statements of the Company and review any significant financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain: review and challenge where necessary the consistency of and changes to accounting policies, the methods used to account for significant and unusual transactions and whether the Company has followed appropriate accounting standards and made appropriate estimates and judgements: RPC Group Plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe gOvernAnce continued approve the external auditors terms of engagement, audit plan and scope of the audit and review with them the results of their audit and any control issues raised: review the effectiveness of the external auditors and their independence and objectivity: consider and make recommendations to the Board on the external auditors remuneration and their appointment, re-appointment or removal: review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud andits systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on non-compliance: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial and other matters: and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, reviewandapprove their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal audit reports and monitor managements responses torecommendations.
The Audit Committee fulfilled its responsibilities outlined above during the year.
The Committees monitoring and review role during the year has been particularly focused on the identification and mitigation of risks associated with the current global and eurozone economic environment and the financial aspects of the integration of Superfos Industries a s and the Fitter for the Future programme.
The Committee, together with the Board, takes care when reviewing the annual report and accounts and half yearly, interim and other relevant published reports to ensure that a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects is presented and that information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy is provided.
exTeRnal aUDIToRs KPMG has been the Companys external auditor since 1999 with the lead audit partner changing every five years.
There was a new lead audit partner for the year ended 31 March 2012.
In early 2012, the Audit Committee conducted an external audit tender.
Four audit firms including KPMG Audit Plc were invited to participate in the process.
The tender documents and presentations were carefully scrutinised and the candidates assessed according to a range of selection criteria.
At the conclusion of the process, the Committee recommended and the Board approved that KPMG Audit Plc be proposed for reappointment as the Companys external auditors.
The Committee policy is to put the external audit contract out totender at least every ten years in accordance with the 2012 edition of the Code, but given the length of tenure of KPMG will consider undertaking another tender at an earlier date.
The Committee will continue to monitor best practice developments in the Code and related guidance and any changes at eU level.
The Committee has conducted a detailed review of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor and reviewed monitoring and approval procedures during the year.
It is satisfied that the level of fees for non-audit services has not impaired auditor objectivity and independence based on the principles adopted in the Group policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
Under the policy, the auditors may not be engaged to audit their own work, make management decisions for the Group, have a mutual financial interest with the Group or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for non-audit services where the fees are likely to exceed specified limits both for individual assignments and in the aggregate.
Details of the amounts payable to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
In addition to its review of non-audit fees, the Committee has conducted its annual assessment of the external auditors, including matters that might have a bearing on their independence, objectivity and effectiveness of their audit.
The assessment takes into account the systems and procedures adopted by KPMG and the results of internal questionnaires.
The Committee is satisfied that the external audit process remains effective and that auditor objectivity and independence is properly safeguarded.
Due to an internal reorganisation, the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has decided to wind down its audit business and transfer it to KPMG LLP.
KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the forthcoming AGM and KPMG LLP, an intermediate parent, has agreed to be appointed in its place.
The Committee has considered the circumstances and has recommended the appointment of KPMG LLP as the external auditors.
InTeRnal aUDIT The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited to attend Audit Committee meetings where external audit and internal control matters are considered and to report on the results of internal audits and progress on the implementation of recommendations directly to the Committee.
The internal audit process has become well-established and has continued to develop to take into account the expansion of the Group and new responsibilities, suchas Bribery Act 2010 compliance and IT audits.
During the year, the Committee approved the annual internal audit plans and the scope of audits.
It also reviewed the results of audits and the internal audit resources in respect of the Group.
RIsK ManaGeMenT anD InTeRnal ConTRol The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group which has been regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, and is in accordance with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 47 The key procedures in the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls are summarised below: There is a clearly defined Group management responsibility and reporting structure.
The Groups objectives are reviewed as part of the strategic planning process and communicated throughout the Group.
Objectives are set for individual operating units as part of the strategy review process.
A three-year strategy review is prepared for the Boards consideration each year.
This is appraised in the light of the strategic and other relevant risks and issues faced by the Group, the resources available and its objectives.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the Groups annual strategic planning cycle.
The Group has a detailed risk management process, which identifies the key risks faced by the individual reporting entities and the Group as a whole and the actions and controls required to manage these risks.
The process is reviewed each year to ensure it remains relevant to the business over time.
The Board and Audit Committee review this information as part of the internal control review.
The directors are required to approve yearly financial budgets, including capital expenditure, for each of the Groups operating units.
Performance against these targets is monitored monthly and reported on at Board meetings.
Reasons for divergences are discussed at Board meetings.
Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in their area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
Through the use of risk registers, these risks are assessed on a continual basis.
An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including a detailed risk assessment.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
Matters relating to internal control brought to the attention of the management by internal and external auditors are reviewed and any corrective actions to the internal control procedures are made in a timely manner.
The Group operates an effective group reporting and consolidation system.
Written monthly reports, management accounts and key performance indicators are submitted by operating units and reviewed every month by senior management.
Significant risks and internal control issues are considered, actions agreed and progress monitored regularly with reporting entities and, where appropriate, at executive and Board meetings.
Operating units produce plans to improve controls relating to key risks and any significant weaknesses identified by Group executives in addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions in progress at the local or cluster level.
An Internal Controls Committee, comprising senior finance managers in the Group, ensures that operating units respond to and implement internal control recommendations arising from internal and external audits.
An interim report is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board to monitor the operating units progress against their plans to improve controls to ensure that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
The report also includes updates on significant risks and other internal control issues.
Further improvements were made during the year to the Group reporting and consolidation system which has further strengthened the financial reporting and control process in the Group.
The internal audit function has performed reviews at a number of the Groups sites during the year.
In addition, the Group has identified a number of risks faced by the business, requiring particular attention to control and monitoring, and these are held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific risks that are seen as particularly important at the current time are given in the Principal Risks on pages 28 and 29.
The directors confirm that they have carried out their annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control as it has operated throughout the year ended 31 March 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The directors also confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
DIReCToRs ConFlICTs oF InTeResT Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests a situational conflict.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any interest in an existing or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company a transactional conflict.
In accordance with the Act, the Companys Articles of Association contain a provision giving directors who have no interest in the matter, authority to approve such situational conflicts where appropriate.
A formal system and guidance for reporting any situational conflicts of interest to the Chairman and Company Secretary has been established, inaddition to the existing duty to notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
Situational conflicts are considered by those directors who havenointerest in the matter and they may impose conditions on any authorisation given.
Situational conflicts considered by the Board, and anyauthorisation given, are recorded in the Board minutes and a register of directors conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification and authorisation system, the register of directors conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
RPC Group Plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2013 cOrpOrATe gOvernAnce continued ReMUneRaTIon ReMUneRaTIon CoMMITTee anD PolICY The members of the Remuneration Committee and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its activities during the year under review and details ofremuneration policy and directors remuneration packages are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 49 to 60.
The number of meetings of the Committee and attendance are given on page 41.
RelaTIons WITH sHaReHolDeRs DIaloGUe WITH sHaReHolDeRs The Company is committed to maintaining an effective dialogue with institutional and private investors.
Directors, normally the Chairman or Chief executive and Finance Director, hold regular meetings with institutional investors at which the Companys past performance and strategy may be discussed.
The Board is provided with brokers reports, surveys on shareholders views and regular feedback from shareholder meetings.
During the year, the Chairman has discussed the Companys governance and strategy with major shareholders and reported any issues or concerns raised at these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to attend meetings at their request.
Contact with institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers and the press is controlled and procedures are in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside information in compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Code of Market Conduct.
annUal GeneRal MeeTInG Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
An individual resolution on each separate issue is proposed at the AGM, including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders have the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and performance.
It is the Boards policy that all directors attend the AGM if at all possible and therefore, in normal circumstances, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution and votes withheld are counted before the AGM and are made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on a show of hands.
A full breakdown of the voting results detailing the total number of votes for, against and votes withheld in respect of each resolution proposed is published after each AGM and general meeting.
