Management & Governance Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction As Group Chairman, I am pleased again to have the opportunity to report on how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied in our company.
We continue to be fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Governance Code the Code and the report below expands on this, as well as the processes and disciplines to which the Board adheres.
In more general terms I am confident that, as a matter of substance, the Board operates in an open, effective and controlled manner.
This enables the risks within the business to be identified and properly managed.
As the biographies on page 15 illustrate, we are fortunate to have a Board which offers a wide range of skill and experience.
The composition of the Board and its Committees has been stable throughout 2013 which has been invaluable in maintaining our cohesion in what has been another demanding year.
The significant progress we have made in the year in developing our acquisition strategy has been a testament not only to the quality of our executive team but also to the Board as a whole in challenging and supporting the steps already taken and proposed.
The development of the business has again been complemented by further review and improvement in the controls and systems necessary within a growing multi-national Group.
As part of this process the Board regularly examines the significant risks that we are facing.
The health and safety of our employees also remains a priority and is considered fully at every meeting.
In my view, therefore, the Boards agenda continues to strike the right balance between strategy, priorities, performance and risk management.
Our Board Committees, supported by external professional advice as appropriate, continue to operate effectively and independently whilst retaining open and regular dialogue with the Board.
I have also had the benefit of a regular and valuable dialogue with the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chairs of our Audit and Remuneration Committees.
During the year we undertook our first externally evaluated Board review utilising the services of Equity Communications.
It was pleasing to receive independent reassurance that the thoughts I expressed in this report last year are shared by both my executive and non-executive colleagues.
No major issues or concerns emerged from the detailed process that we followed and certain recommendations have been implemented.
In 2014 we plan to encourage Non-Executive Directors to visit our operating companies in Europe, Australia and North America as well as in the UK, to ensure that they maintain their understanding of the markets these businesses operate in.
In the past two years NEDs have attended Board Meetings in the USA, Canada and Australia in addition to the UK and the Netherlands.
I am therefore confident that the strengths of the Board reflected in this review will continue as a key driver in sustaining and improving the Groups performance.
The Nomination Committee keeps the issue of succession planning under close review and steps will be taken at the appropriate time to ensure continuity in the executive management of the Group.
As I wrote last year, I am personally of the firm view that over-planning succession accelerates unwanted change which is neither in the interests of the Company, nor its shareholders.
Disaster succession planning is in place and the Chief Executive has recently confirmed to the Board that he has no present intention of retiring before the age of 65 in 2017.
At the present time, therefore I envisage that the Nomination Committee will start the process of identifying a successor in about 2 years.
I will naturally keep shareholders informed of any changes to this plan.
Louise Charltons second three year term as a NED comes to an end in May 2014 and Tracey Grahams first three year term comes to an end in September 2014.
I am very pleased to report that both have agreed to continue for further three year periods.
In addition to serving as a NED, Louise serves on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees whilst Tracey chairs the Remuneration Committee and sits on the Audit Committee.
Louise and Tracey agreeing to extend gives continuity and stability to the constitution of the Board.
John Bennett, who chairs the Audit Committee, completes 9 years as a NED at the 2015 AGM and will be retiring at that time in accordance with best practice.
Steps are already in hand to identify Johns successor to ensure a suitable hand-over period in this important role that he has filled outstandingly well.
In accordance with best practice all our Directors both Executive and Non-Executive, including myself, offer themselves for re-election at every AGM.
The continuing success and development of our Company could not be achieved without the professionalism and hard work of all our employees to whom, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to extend thanks.
com 19 Corporate Governance Committee The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group structure and organisation and evaluating these in the context of developments in standards of corporate governance.
The Committee keeps the Board and its other committees appraised of developments that may impact their structure and activities.
It also oversees the policies described in the Corporate Responsibility Statement and the Groups environmental policies.
The Committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is pleased to report that the Company complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year.
Board Responsibilities The Board has a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision, including: n determining the Groups overall strategy n the approval of policies and systems for risk management and assurance n the approval of annual budgets and financial reporting including annual and half year results and interim n the approval of overall policies and plans for human resources management statements n the appointment of key advisers to the Group n the approval and recommendation of dividends n the approval of major items of capital expenditure n the approval of significant acquisitions and disposals n the settlement of major litigation Board Structure At the date of this report the Board comprised three Executive, four Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
There were no changes to Board membership during the year.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of all the Groups business activities.
The Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, all independent of management and contribute independent judgement as well as bringing extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, which may subsequently be extended.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive is rigorously reviewed, taking account of the requirement to refresh the Board.
All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clear and distinct roles.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings as well as meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions.
The Chief Executives role is to develop and lead business strategies and processes to enable the Group to meet the requirements of its clients as well the needs of its employees.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
Robert Miller-Bakewell acted as the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
The Chairman of each Committee provides updates as to its activities at Board meetings.
The table below shows the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each of the Directors during the year.
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Governance Brook Land 8 1 1 Alan Hearne 8 1 Gary Young 8 Phil Williams 8 John Bennett 8 3 5 Louise Charlton 6 4 1 Robert Miller-Bakewell 8 3 Tracey Graham 7 3 5 Number of meetings held 8 3 5 1 1 Board Operations The Board generally meets on a monthly basis, except during holiday periods, although additional meetings may be held should circumstances require.
The Board agenda gives significant focus to business performance and strategy balanced by consideration of Report and Accounts 2013 20 Management & Governance emerging risks and the control environment.
Comprehensive papers are circulated well in advance of Board meetings which include general updates and briefings on significant issues from each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
These reports and other matters of immediate importance are discussed at each meeting.
Presentations on the operations of particular operating companies are made from time to time.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in ensuring that Board procedures are followed and advises on matters of Corporate Governance.
The services of the Company Secretary are available to Directors generally.
Outside of Board meetings the Chairman has regular individual discussions with all Directors.
The Executive Directors meet formally at least once a month.
The Executive Committee, which consists of the three Executive Directors supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for all operational matters within the Group subject to those matters that remain reserved for the Board.
The minutes of Executive Committee meetings are circulated to the Non-Executive Directors.
Where Directors have concerns that cannot be resolved regarding the management of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
In accordance with Company policy any concerns expressed by a Director on resignation are provided, in a written statement, to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
No issues of this nature have arisen during the year.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions that allow Directors to authorise conflicts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These provisions enable the Directors to authorise a conflict, subject to such terms as they may think fit, which may include exclusion from voting in respect of the relevant issue and exclusion from information and discussion relating to the matter.
The procedure approved by the Board for authorising conflicts reminds Directors of the need to consider their duties as Directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
A potentially conflicted Director cannot vote on such an authorising resolution or be counted in a quorum for that purpose.
Any authority granted may be terminated at any time and the Director is informed of his obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any change in the nature of the conflict authorised.
In addition, the Board requires the Nomination Committee to check that any individual it nominates for appointment to the Board is free of any potential conflict of interest.
No actual or potential conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance with a current limit of indemnity of 20m.
The Groups strategy and its business model are described on pages 3 and 4.
Board Performance The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance.
During 2013 and for the first time, the exercise was conducted on an externally facilitated basis.
The review considered a wide range of issues relating to the organisation and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in relation to which extensive input was obtained from each Director.
A detailed report was produced at the end of this exercise which was circulated to and discussed by the Board.
The report indicated that Directors were in general very satisfied with performance and no major areas of concern were highlighted by the external facilitator.
As a result of this report it was agreed that certain detailed aspects of the Boards agenda and timetable should be reviewed.
The Non-Executive Directors hold meetings with the Chairman without the Executives present at least twice a year.
The NonExecutives, led by the Senior Non-Executive Director, meet on an annual basis to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Executive Directors have their performance individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against annually set objectives.
The Chief Executive has his performance reviewed by the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Boards annual appraisal process incorporates a review of the performance of Non-Executive Directors.
Directors receive an induction on appointment including considerable information on the Company as well as the Board and its procedures.
They also meet other members of the Board to be briefed on strategy, financial matters and other key issues.
Advice is available from the Companys solicitors, auditors and brokers if required.
During the year updates are provided on key technical issues as required including those relating to corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
Non-Executive Directors undertake visits to operating companies and attend their Board meetings in order to improve their understanding of the issues facing the Groups businesses.
Communication The Company attaches great importance to communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition to regular financial reporting the Group website provides up-to-date information about its organisation, the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
The Company also responds to letters and enquiries from shareholders and others with an interest in the Group.
In addition to presentations of full and half-year results, senior executives led by the Chief Executive hold meetings with the companys principal shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss issues with major shareholders.
A detailed investor relations report is presented at all regular Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept aware of the views of major shareholders and the investment community generally.
com 21 The Chairman of each of the Board Committees attends the Annual General Meeting and is available to answer questions.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 17 to 18 and 27 to 30 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 17.
The Board has throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements had procedures in place as recommended in the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the supporting document issued by the Financial Reporting Council, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and the measures to mitigate such risks are described on pages 8 and 9.
The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, which are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews from time to time the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management from information provided by management and the Groups external auditors.
Such a review was undertaken by the Audit Committee and the Board during 2013 the outcome of which was satisfactory.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls are as follows: Financial reporting: The results for the Group are reported to and reviewed by the Board on a monthly basis.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance: The Groups accounting policies, principles and minimum standards required for effective financial control are communicated to all accounting teams.
The Group Finance function undertakes periodic detailed reviews to ensure compliance and to follow up any weaknesses previously identified.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence procedures in respect of potential business acquisitions.
Treasury: the Group operates a central treasury function that undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange transactions as well as the daily monitoring of bank balances and cash receipts.
Appropriate payment authorisation processes are in place in all parts of the Group.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors: John Bennett, Robert Miller-Bakewell and Tracey Graham.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
Although the Board considers that all current members of the Committee have experience that is relevant to the role, John Bennett, who is a Chartered Accountant, is the member of the Committee specifically identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as Group auditors in June 2012 following a tender process.
At its annual planning meeting in September the Committee reviews and approves plans with the Auditors including the locations to be audited and the key areas of audit focus.
At the conclusion of the audit the Committee reviews the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the report and accounts as a whole prior to their submission to the Board.
This review includes ensuring that statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements are met as well as considering significant reporting judgements, the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and practices and compliance with accounting standards.
In respect of the year under review the Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements and in each case addressed these as indicated.
Intangible assets: This classification of assets, which comprises goodwill and other intangible assets, is by far the largest on the Group balance sheet and therefore receives careful attention from the Audit Committee.
The Committee needed to satisfy itself that no impairment of its carrying value was appropriate.
Reliance was placed upon a report from the Group Finance Director including the results of detailed modelling of the Groups cash generating units using assumptions and budgets that had been approved by the Board.
Based upon this report the Committee was able to satisfy itself that no impairment was required.
Acquisition accounting: A number of acquisitions were completed in the year and judgements are made with respect to the fair value of the net assets acquired and the consideration transferred.
The Group Finance Director explained to the Committee the valuation process and the judgements made.
The valuation of intangibles uses a spreadsheet model that was constructed with the help of external valuation experts.
Inputs to the model are obtained from the acquired entity and the assumptions used are derived from recognised sources or using previous experience.
Recoverability of Trade Debtors and Accrued Income: The risk that accrued income and trade debtors may not be collected and therefore may be overstated in the accounts is discussed and considered by the Board at its regular board meetings when it considers monthly results.
The finance reports prepared for those meetings contain age profile information on debtors and accrued income by segment.
Operational reports presented by Executive Directors at those meeting discuss specific issues in more detail as necessary.
Report and Accounts 2013 22 Management & Governance The Committee also took comfort from a report prepared by the Group Finance Director that considered the level of impairment provisioning at the year end.
Following the review conducted by the Audit Committee and its own consideration, the Board was able to conclude that the Report and Accounts for 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The Committee reviews the performance of the Auditors following completion of the annual audit and prior to making recommendations as to the annual re-appointment of Auditors.
To facilitate this process the Group Finance Director canvasses the views of the Groups operating companies on to the conduct of the audit.
He then reports this feedback to the Committee as well as the performance of the Auditors at Group level.
The independence of the external auditor is also reviewed each year and audit partners are rotated at least every five years.
As part of its responsibility to ensure independence and objectivity the Committee has adopted a policy to determine the circumstances in which Auditors may be permitted to undertake tax compliance work for the Group.
Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain services are prohibited and include those listed below: n bookkeeping services n valuation services n preparation of financial statements n investment advisory, broker and dealing services n design and implementation of financial systems n general management services The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 45.
Taxation services undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year were handled by a team that was separate and independent from the external audit team and led by a different senior partner.
The Committee was satisfied that appropriate safeguards were in place and that the provision of these additional services by Deloitte LLP did not affect their independence as external auditor.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management processes: this included assisting the Board in conducting the review of internal controls described above.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need for an internal audit function.
It remains of the view that at present the financial controls operating throughout the Group and the reviews undertaken by the Group Finance function are adequate without requiring a dedicated internal audit function.
The Committee also keeps under review the means by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters.
The companys procedure allows for any such matters to be reported to the Company Secretary who will ensure that any such matters are properly investigated and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
An individual raising a concern need not disclose their identity and if such identity is disclosed it will not be passed on without the consent of that individual.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises the Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Louise Charlton and Robert Miller-Bakewell.
The Committees key responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience which may be required in the future and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
It is also responsible for nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise, recommending Directors who are retiring to be put forward for re-election and where appropriate considering any issues relating to the continuation in office of any Director.
It has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The range of skills and experience offered by the current directors is highlighted in the Chairmans Statement above and the Committee is satisfied with the balance and membership of the current Board.
The Committee does, however, remain mindful of the need to ensure its periodic refreshment.
The Committee also keeps succession planning under continuous review and has, at all times, a clear plan which is designed to ensure a smooth transition, whenever that is needed, for all posts.
Account is also taken of the need to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors continue to provide the range and balance of skills required.
The Committee and the Board recognise the importance of diversity.
One quarter of the Board as currently constituted is female which is line with Groups previously announced 25% target in this regard.
When Directors are appointed to the Board, this is through a formal, rigorous and transparent process.
No appointments were made to the Board during the year although on the last occasion that an appointment was made such a process was followed as fully reported at that time.
com 23 As noted above, Louise Charltons second term as a Non-Executive Director and Tracey Grahams first term were due to expire in May 2014 and September 2014 respectively.
Following review both have agreed to continue for a further three year term.
Remuneration Committee The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 26 together with the accompanying notes on pages 77 to 90.
Takeover Directive Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 18 and form part of the Groups Corporate Governance report.
