Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance board to accelerate the planned promotion Our agreement with Altria limits the size of Introduction of MrClark to Chief Executive.
The the board to a maximum of 15 directors, of This report describes our directors approach transition of management responsibilities whom no more than two are to be executive to corporate governance and how the board from MrMackay to MrClark was well directors, up to three are to be non-executive applies the UK Corporate Governance Code.
advanced when MrClark assumed the role directors nominated by Altria, up to two are In his statement on pages 6 to 9 of the of Chief Executive on 23 April 2013, three to be non-executive directors nominated by annual report, our acting Chairman reports months earlier than was originally planned.
BevCo, and up to eight are to be nonon how we apply the principles of the Code executive directors nominated by the board.
relating to the role and effectiveness of the Mr Manser has assumed the role of Our agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to board.
actingChairman while Mr Mackay, who nominate up to two non-executive directors iscurrently on a medical leave of absence, for appointment to the board.
Application of the UK Corporate continues his treatment.
Governance Code As was the case last year, the number of The board applied all of the principles and 2.
Our audit committee did not consist solely directors currently exceeds the number provisions of the Code throughout the year of independent directors.
Under our permitted under our agreement with Altria.
ended 31 March 2013, except in three relationship agreement, as approved by Altria has consented to this in order to respects: shareholders in 2002 and in 2005, Altria facilitate the progressive renewal of the Group, Inc. Altria has the right to boardand the broadening of the diversity 1.
In July 2012, our Chief Executive, nominate a director to the audit committee, ofbackground, gender and experience at MrMackay, was appointed as Executive and has nominated MrDevitre, whom the board level.
The board is grateful to Altria Chairman with the intention that he would board does not consider to be an forits agreement to permit the maximum hold this position for an interim period of independent director for the purposes number of directors allowed under the one year.
The Code recommends that a ofthe Code.
The board nevertheless relationship agreement to be exceeded for chief executive should not go on to be considers that the composition of the audit the time being.
The board has announced chairman of the same company and that committee remains appropriate, given further changes to the composition of the the chairman should on appointment meet Altrias interest as the companys largest board, detailed overleaf, that will, in the the independence criteria set out in the shareholder, and is satis ed that, having absence of unforeseen circumstances, Code.
As a former Chief Executive, regard to the experience and background restore the number of directors to that MrMackay was not independent in financial matters of Mr Devitre, as a envisaged by the agreement, while still onappointment.
former chief financial of cer of Altria, the applying the provision of the Code that independence from management and the atleast half of the directors excluding the Mr Mackays proposed appointment was effectiveness of our audit committee in Chairman should be independent nonannounced in April 2012, when the board discharging its functions continue to be executive directors.
set out a number of changes to the considerably enhanced and not in the composition of the board to take effect at leastcompromised.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their our 2012 annual general meeting, including right under their respective agreements to the retirement of our then Chairman, Mr 3.
Two directors, MrArmour and Ms Weir, nominate one director for appointment to the Kahn, and of Mr Pieterse, an independent were unable to attend our 2012 annual nomination committee, being Mr Bible and non-executive director: the appointment general meeting because of long standing Mr Santo Domingo respectively.
Both Altria ofMr Mackay as Executive Chairman: prior commitments.
and BevCo have the right to nominate andthe appointment of MrClark as an directors for appointment to the corporate executive director and Chief Operating accountability and risk assurance committee Leadership and effectiveness Of cer, with the intention that he would CARAC, which Altria has exercised succeed Mr Mackay as Chief Executive nominating Mr Bible but BevCo has not, and Board of directors: composition, atthe end of the interim period, when Altria has exercised its right to nominate one independence and renewal MrMackay would become nondirector Mr Devitre for appointment to the Composition executiveChairman.
We have 16 directors: our Chairman MrMackay, who is currently on medical Before announcing these changes, we Independence leave of absence : our acting Chairman discussed them with our major institutional The board considers eight directors MrManser, who is also our Deputy shareholders, and at the time of their MrArmour, Ms Knox, MrManser, Chairman and Senior Independent Director : announcement our Senior Independent MrManzoni, MrMorland, Dr Moyo, seven other independent non-executive Director, MrManser, wrote on behalf of the MrRamaphosa and Ms Weir to be directors: five non-executive directors who board to all shareholders to explain the independent for the purposes of the Code.
we do not consider to be independent: and process that had been followed and to set The board considers five non-executive two executive directors Mr Clark, the Chief out the boards reasons for these changes.
directors not to be independent for the Executive, and Mr Wilson, the Chief Financial These changes were welcomed by the purposes of the Code: MrBible, MrDevitre Of cer.
Short biographies of each of the overwhelming majority of shareholders, and MrWillard, as they are nominees of directors are on pages 50 and 51. and our explanation of our decision not to Altria, the companys largest shareholder: apply the Code in this respect under the and MrSanto Domingo and MrPrez, The size and certain aspects of the comply or explain principle was cited by asthey are nominees of BevCo Ltd, the composition of our board and our audit, the Association of British Insurers, in companys second largest shareholder.
nomination and corporate accountability areport in December 2012, as a best Asnoted in our statement of our application andrisk assurance committees continue to practice example.
of the Code, MrMackay was not considered be determined in part by the terms of our independent on his appointment as Chairman.
relationship agreements with Altria and with Subsequently, as shareholders will be BevCo Ltd a holding company of the Santo aware, MrMackay was diagnosed in April Domingo Group, both of which have been 2013 with a brain tumour, which led the approved by SABMillers shareholders.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 57 Corporate governance continued If a director has served for a period of nine performance and continued independence on 25 July 2013.
Barring unforeseen years or more, the Code requires the board ofeach of these directors.
circumstances it is expected that Messrs to consider whether that director continues Manser and Morland will retire at the annual to be independent.
In respect of each of the Progressive renewal of the board general meeting in 2014 and that Mr Elliott two independent directors who have served The board continues to believe that its overall will replace Mr Manser as Deputy Chairman the board for more than nine years and are composition remains appropriate, having and Senior Independent Director.
offering themselves for re-election regard in particular to the independence of MrManser and MrMorland, the board has character and integrity of all of our directors, With these planned changes, by the time considered speci cally whether their length and the experience and skills which they ofthe AGM in July 2014 the number of of service has compromised their bring to their duties.
independent non-executive directors who independence.
In each case the board has have served more than nine years will fall determined that the director concerned We have been fortunate to retain the services from three to one, while the average length of remains independent in character and of a number of distinguished non-executive service for non-executive directors will remain judgement and that there are no relationships directors, MrBible, MrManser, MrMorland at approximately six years excluding the or circumstances which are likely to affect, and MrRamaphosa, who have held of ce for Chairman.
orcould appear to affect, his judgement, all, or most, of the period since the companys andthat the independence of character listing on the London Stock Exchange in The Code recommends that all directors andjudgement of each of the directors 1999.
Together they have provided stability should stand for annual re-election and the concerned is not in any way affected or tothe board and the board has bene ted board has decided that all directors, save impaired by length of service, noting also that greatly from their valuable insights into the those who are retiring, should stand for as a result of executive directors succession group, its markets and the industry.
re-election at the next annual general over the last two years, neither MrManser meeting.
nor MrMorland has served concurrently Nevertheless, our directors have shown their withany executive director for more than commitment to the progressive refreshment The board considers there is an appropriate twoyears.
of the board in terms of age, experience, balance of skills, collective experience, gender and balance of skills.
We have independence, knowledge and gender The board also conducted a rigorous appointed six new independent nonamong our non-executive directors to enable reviewof the performance of MrManser executive directors over the past five years, them to discharge their respective duties and andMrMorland and considers that they and in March 2013 we announced changes responsibilities effectively.
bothcontinue to bring invaluable integrity, that will see the appointment of Mr Elliott as wisdom and experience to the board and to another independent non-executive director How the board operates contribute positively to board and committee on 1 July 2013, and, in light of the increasing Board meetings and attendance deliberations, especially during the period of amount of time which he will need to devote During the year we held six board meetings.
transition of both executive directors and the to public service following his appointment Individual directors attendance at board chairman over the past two years.
The board asdeputy president of the African National andcommittee meetings and at the annual is therefore entirely satis ed as to the Congress, the retirement of Mr Ramaphosa general meeting is set out in the table below.
Directors attendance 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC AGM Directors Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended J M Kahn N A 3 3 Y N A 6 6 22Y E A G Mackay P J Manser Yes 6644331122Y N A 3 3 22Y A J Clark N A 6 6 22Y J S Wilson M H Armour Yes 5 64433 N No 6 6 1122Y G C Bible No 6644 Y D S Devitre Yes 663 42 3Y L M S Knox Yes 6 6 331122Y J A Manzoni M Q Morland Yes 66443311 Y Yes 6 6 22Y D F Moyo No 66 Y C A Prez R Pieterse Yes 3 3 Y Yes 6 6 1122Y M C Ramaphosa No 6 6 11 Y A Santo Domingo Yes 5 644 N H A Weir No 66 Y H A Willard Mr Armour and Ms Weir were unable to attend the annual Our March 2013 board and committee meetings were general meeting in July 2012 and the preceding board held in Australia.
Because of a longstanding prior meeting because of longstanding prior commitments.
commitment and the travelling time required Ms Knox wasunable to arrive in Australia in time for the audit andremuneration committee meetings, but was able toattendthe board meeting held the following day.
58 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In the few instances where directors have not Con icts of interest companies operate.
Members of board been able to attend a board or committee Our directors are required to avoid situations committees are encouraged to attend meeting, any comments which they have where they have, or can have, a direct or internal and external brie ngs and courses hadon the matters to be considered at that indirect interest that con icts, or possibly onaspects of their respective committee meeting have been given in advance to the may con ict, with the companys interests.
specialisms and regular updates on relevant chairman of the meeting or to the Company As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, legal, regulatory, corporate governance and Secretary.
the articles of association of the company technical developments are presented to allow the board to authorise potential committee members at each meeting and, as Operation of the board con icts of interest that may arise and to appropriate, to the full board.
The Chairman The board sets the strategic objectives of impose such limits or conditions as it thinks considers the training and development thegroup, determines investment policies, t. Procedures are in place for the disclosure needs of the board and discusses these agrees on performance criteria, and by directors of any potential con icts and for withthe respective directors as necessary.
delegates to management the detailed the appropriate authorisation to be sought if planning and implementation of those a con ict arises.
These procedures continue Upon appointment to the board MrClark objectives and policies in accordance with to operate effectively.
There were no actual received a tailored induction which included, appropriate risk parameters.
The board orpotential con icts of interest which were among other things, a brie ng on his monitors compliance with policies and required to be authorised by the board during responsibilities as a director of a company achievement against objectives by holding the year ended 31 March 2013. listed on the London and Johannesburg management accountable for its activities stock exchanges.
through monthly and quarterly performance The roles of executive and reporting and budget updates.
In addition, non-executive directors Outside appointments members of our executive committee our Our executive directors are responsible Non-executive directors may serve on executive directors, our regional managing forproposing strategy and for making and anumber of other boards provided that directors and the directors of our key group implementing operational decisions.
Our theycontinue to demonstrate the requisite functions: corporate affairs: corporate finance non-executive directors complement the commitment to discharge effectively their and development: legal: marketing: and skills and experience of the executive duties to SABMiller.
The nomination supply chain and human resources make directors, bring independent judgement, committee keeps under review the extent of regular presentations to the board, enabling andcontribute to the formulation of strategy, directors other interests to ensure that the directors to explore and interrogate speci c policy and decision-making through their effectiveness of the board is not compromised issues and developments in greater detail.
knowledge and experience of other by the extent of their external commitments.
The board is satis ed that all of the nonBoard and committee meetings are held in executive directors commit suf cient time to an atmosphere of intellectual honesty of Information and training their duties as directors of the company and purpose, integrity and mutual respect, Our Company Secretary is responsible for the non-executive directors standing for requiring reporting of the highest standard advising the board, through the Chairman, on election or re-election have con rmed that bymanagement and direct, robust and matters of corporate governance.
The board they have suf cient time to ful l their constructive challenge and debate among and its committees are supplied with full and respective obligations to the company.
timely information, including detailed financial Asnoted on page 58, MrRamaphosa has information, to enable directors to discharge decided not to offer himself for re-election, Matters reserved for the board their responsibilities, and the committees are because of the increasing amount of time that There is a schedule of matters which are provided with suf cient resources to he expects to devote to his public service dealt with exclusively by the board.
All directors have commitments in South Africa.
include approval of financial statements: the access to the advice of the Company groups business strategy: the annual capital Secretary.
Independent professional advice The board believes, in principle, in the bene t expenditure plan: major capital projects: is also available to directors in appropriate to the group of our executive directors and major changes to the groups management circumstances, at the companys expense.
members of the executive committee and control structure: material investments During the year ended 31 March 2013, none accepting non-executive directorships of ordisposals: risk management strategy: of the directors sought independent external other companies in order to widen their sustainability and environmental policies: advice through the company.
experience and knowledge for the bene t andtreasury policies.
Accordingly, subject to the Following the appointment of new directors to agreement of the board, executive directors The board governs through clearly mandated the board, they are briefed on the duties they and members of the executive committee are board committees, accompanied by owe to the company as directors, and tailored permitted to accept external non-executive monitoring and reporting systems.
Each induction programmes are arranged which board appointments and to retain any fees standing board committee has speci c involve industry speci c training and include received from those appointments.
written terms of reference issued by the visits to the groups businesses and meetings board and adopted in committee.
The terms with senior management, as appropriate.
New During the year ended 31 March 2013, of reference of the audit, remuneration and directors are briefed on internal controls at MrMackay held of ce as a non-executive nomination committees are available on the head of ce and business unit level and are director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc companys website.
All committee chairmen advised of the legal and other duties they have andamember of the board of Philip Morris report orally on the proceedings of their as directors of a listed company as well as on International Inc. Fees earned by Mr Mackay committees at the next meeting of the board, relevant company policies and governancefrom these appointments are set out in the and the minutes of the meetings of all board related matters.
directors remuneration report, and were committees are included in the papers retained by Mr Mackay.
Of the executive distributed to all board members before The company is committed to the continuing committee members, Mr Adami is a thenext board meeting.
development of directors in order that they non-executive director of Allied Electronics may build on their expertise and develop an Corporation Limited, and Mr Bowman is ever more detailed understanding of the anon-executive director of Tiger Brands business and the markets in which group Limited, both being companies listed on SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 59 Corporate governance continued theJohannesburg Stock Exchange, and other things, the performance of the committee.
These views were discussed MrMervis is a director of the Melbourne Chairman was discussed.
inan open and constructive manner with Business School.
recommendations arising from the Board, committee and director discussions being brought forward to the Chairman, Chief Executive, Deputy performance evaluation board and the respective committees.
The Chairman and Senior Independent A formal and rigorous evaluation of the conclusion of this meeting was that the board Director performance and effectiveness of the board was balanced and operated effectively and As noted in the introduction to this report, and its principal committees is carried out that the board committees discharged following the retirement of Mr Kahn as the each year, led by the Chairman and the effectively their duties under their respective companys Chairman at the 2012 annual Company Secretary, with input from the terms of reference.
general meeting, Mr Mackay was appointed Deputy Chairman, and in consultation with as Executive Chairman for an interim period other directors.
The Code recommends that The results of the performance and and Mr Clark was appointed as Chief the evaluation of board performance should effectiveness assessment process as Operating Of cer.
During that period the be externally facilitated at least every three outlined above were reviewed in full and division of responsibilities between the years.
Given that the period under review approved by the board.
Matters identi ed Executive Chairman and Chief Operating was a year of transition, the board decided asrequiring further consideration have been Of cer were clearly fide ned in a written that it was not appropriate to carry out an addressed, including changing the frequency statement of responsibilities which was externally facilitated performance evaluation.
and length of board meetings to ensure more considered and approved by the board at its The evaluation process included speci c regular meetings at which additional time is meeting in May 2012.
Following Mr Clarks consideration by each of the non-executive made available to discuss group strategy, appointment as Chief Executive in April 2013, directors on the performance of MrMackay senior executive succession planning and the a revised statement of the division of in his role as Executive Chairman, Mr Clark groups talent pipeline below the executive responsibilities between the Chairman and inhis role as Chief Operating Of cer and the committee level: organising additional board the Chief Executive, which had already been effectiveness of the division of responsibilities meetings to be held in countries where the considered by the nomination committee at between them.
group has operations, to allow the board its meeting in March 2013, was approved by theopportunity to conduct more detailed the board at its meeting in May 2013.
The performance of the Executive Chairman occasional reviews of country and regional was reviewed by the nomination committee performance: and the introduction of regular Mr Manser has extensive experience inlight of responses from each director to pre-board meeting events at which nonofchairing or serving on all four main questionnaires covering the elements of his executive directors have the opportunity to committees of the board, and is therefore performance and this review was shared with address particular themes or issues in more well placed to in uence the governance of and considered by the board.
The depth, and to meet more frequently with the company and to meet his responsibilities performance of the Chief Executive and the other members of senior management as as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Chief Financial Of cer was reviewed by the well as executive committee members.
He serves as an additional contact Chairman and the nomination committee, and point for shareholders, and is also available reported on to the board by the nomination All directors, except for MrRamaphosa, to fellow non-executive directors, either committee.
Each non-executive directors willbe standing for re-election at this years individually or collectively, to discuss any performance was evaluated by the Chairman, annual general meeting.
The nomination matters of concern in a forum that does not in consultation with the Deputy Chairman, committee has con rmed to the board include executive directors or other members who in turn consulted with the executive thateach of the existing directors offering of the management team.
During directors and the Company Secretary.
themselves for election or re-election MrMackays medical leave of absence continues to perform effectively and to MrManser is acting Chairman.
In light of In reviewing the performance of the board demonstrate commitment to their role.
hisadditional responsibilities and time and its committees, again in the light of Inparticular, the committee has con rmed commitments as acting Chairman, directors responses to questionnaires, the that, in relation to each of the non-executive MrManser will stand down as chairman Chairman and the Deputy Chairman were directors who will have served for over nine ofthe audit committee and as a member of aligned in their conclusion that, measured years, the committee is satis ed with his the audit and remuneration committees.
against the principal duties expected performance and has determined that the ofthem, the board and its standing and length of their service does not compromise Our Chairman and Deputy Chairman are ad hoc sub-committees continued to their independence.
The test of both available to consult with shareholders operateeffectively, including in their independence does not apply to MrBible.
throughout the year and, in the month prior supportof management, in monitoring MrManser, as Deputy Chairman and Senior to the annual general meeting, major ofperformance, and maintaining the Independent Director, con rms the Chairman shareholders are invited to meet with the boardsstrategic oversight.
has performed effectively and demonstrated Chairman to discuss any issues which they commitment to his role during the year, wish to raise although this year this invitation The Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, the although he is currently on medical leave will be to meet with the acting Chairman.
committee chairmen and the Company ofabsence.
Theboard is kept informed of the views of Secretary met at the end of the process to shareholders through regular updates from review the results of the performance and The board unanimously recommends to the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the effectiveness evaluations conducted in shareholders the election of MrElliott as an Company Secretary, as well as through the respect of the board, of the directors independent non-executive director.
He is inclusion in the board papers of reports on individually, of the Chairman and the Deputy ahighly experienced business leader, with comments from, and exchanges with, Chairman and of each of the boards four astrong reputation and, as part of the shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
Regarding the board leadership team of a global business working In the year under review, the Deputy committees, the committee chairmen across a mix of emerging and developed Chairman hosted a meeting of the nonexpressed their views regarding the markets, has gained skills pertinent to our executive directors without the executive operation of their respective committees business structure.
Biographical details of directors being present at which, among against their terms of reference and the alldirectors, and of MrElliott, are included performance and effectiveness of each onpages 50 and 51.
60 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Retirement of directors issatis ed that the chairman, Mr Devitre, deployment by internal audit and by an The companys articles of association require MrArmour, Ms Knox and Ms Weir have independent external project assurance that new directors are subject to election at recent and relevant financial experience.
team from KPMG: the first annual general meeting following Biographical information concerning reports from the external auditors on the their appointment, and directors are subject MrManser and members of the committee is annual and interim financial statements, to retirement and re-election by shareholders set out on pages 50 to 51.
MrElliott will join the approval of the audit plan and its every three years.
The reappointment of the audit committee at the conclusion of the expected evolution with the changes non-executive directors is not automatic.
Mr Elliott has envisaged by the business capability However, the board has determined that all recent and relevant financial experience, programme and the auditors fee directors will stand for re-election annually.
having been chief financial of cer of Rio Tinto proposalfor the 2013 year-end audit: Independent non-executive directors who until his retirement in April 2013, and currently developments in accounting and reporting have served for nine years will only be asked being the chairman of the audit committee of standards and review of the groups to stand for re-election if the board remains Royal Dutch Shell.
responses: satis ed both with the directors performance a review of the progress of the years and that nine years continuous service does It had been intended that Mr Armour would internal audit programme and matters not compromise the directors continuing succeed Mr Manser as chairman of the audit arising and reviewing the plan for the independence.
committee following the conclusion of the forthcoming year: 2014 annual general meeting, but in light the effectiveness of the internal audit The Company Secretary ofthe additional responsibilities and time function and of the Chief Internal Auditor: The Company Secretary acts as secretary commitments assumed by Mr Manser the results of the groups bi-annual letters tothe board and its committees and he asacting Chairman, during Mr Mackays of representation: attended all meetings during the year absence on medical leave, Mr Armour the internal control environment, principal underreview.
agreedto the boards request that he risks and risk management systems and succeed Mr Manser as chairman of the the groups statement on internal control The boards committees and the auditcommittee with effect from 5 June systems, prior to endorsement by executive committee 2013, when MrManser will stand down theboard: The executive committee fromtheaudit committee.
revisions to and compliance with treasury The board delegates responsibility for policies including compliance with risk proposing and implementing the groups The committee met four times during the limits and reviewing signi cant hedging strategy and for managing the group to the year.
The external auditors, the Chairman programmes and a continuing focus on Chief Executive, Mr Clark, who is supported MrKahn in May 2012 and MrMackay counterparty credit limits: by the executive committee excom, which thereafter, the Chief Operating Of cer, the material legal developments: he chairs.
Excom members are appointed Chief Financial Of cer and the Chief Internal whistleblowing systems in place within the byMr Clark, after consultation with the Auditor attended each meeting by invitation.
group and material whistleblowing reports: board.
The other members of excom are our Other members of the management team independence and the effectiveness of the Chief Financial Of cer, our regional managing attended as required.
external auditors, particularly taking into directors and the directors of our key group account the rotation of both audit partners functions corporate affairs: corporate finance The work of the committee during the year at group level and the recommendation to and development: legal: marketing: and and up to the date of this report included the board of the reappointment of supply chain and human resources.
Excoms consideration of:  LLP as the purpose is to support the Chief Executive external auditors: incarrying out the duties delegated to him the annual financial statements and the the policy on auditor independence and bythe board and, in that context, excom preliminary results announcement for the non-audit services, and consideration of executes the strategy and budget approved years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March the nature, scope and independence by the board and, through the Chief 2013 before their submission to the board threats and safeguards of non-audit Executive, reports on these matters to for approval, including consideration of the services supplied by the external auditors theboard.
group on a going concern basis, with and pre-approval of proposed projects in particular reference to the balance sheet, line with policy: and Excom also ensures that effective internal the upcoming years budgeted pro t and its terms of reference and effectiveness.
controls are in place and functioning, and cash ows, its medium-term projections that there is an effective risk management and committed treasury facilities: The audit committee reports its activities process in operation throughout the group.
the interim financial statements and interim andmakes recommendations to the board.
results announcement for the six months During the year, the audit committee The audit committee ended 30 September 2012: discharged its responsibilities as they are During the year under review, the audit areas of signi cance in the preparation fide ned in the committees terms of committee was chaired by MrManser, ofthe financial statements, including: reference, and has been engaged in ensuring chairman since 2002.
MrManser quali ed exceptional items and compliance with that appropriate standards of governance, asa chartered accountant in 1964 and was group policy: acquisition accounting for reporting and compliance are being met.
made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Fosters Group Ltd and the investment in Thecommittee has advised the board on Accountants in 1976.
Anadolu Efes: impairment reviews and key issues relating to the application of financial assumptions: evolution of tax exposures reporting and accounting standards as they Mr Morland, Mr Devitre, Mr Armour, Ms Knox and tax provisions: and the treatment of relate to published financial information.
and Ms Weir also served on the committee costs and reported bene ts tracking throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been relating to the groups business capability The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access amember of the committee since 13 April programme: to the committee, primarily through its 1999, Mr Devitre since 16 May 2007, governance and controls in relation to the chairman.
The committee has access to MrArmour since 1 May 2010, and Ms Knox business capability programme and review subsidiary company internal audit leadership.
The board of the regular reports on progress of The reports of the divisional finance, control SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 61 Corporate governance continued and assurance committees are also available by the nomination committee on the basis determining the appropriate remuneration to, and any key findings are raised with, the oftheir relevant skills and experience.
for Mr Clark on his appointment as Chief audit committee.
During the year, the Operating Of cer, for Ms Clark on her chairman of the committee met quarterly The remuneration committee appointment as Managing Director of withthe external auditors and with the Chief During the year, the remuneration committee SABMiller Europe, and for Ms May, our Internal Auditor without management being consisted entirely of independent directors: newly appointed Director of Corporate present and the committee met with the Mr Morland Chairman, Mr Armour, Ms Knox, Affairs and executive committee member: external auditors at least once without Mr Manser and Mr Manzoni.
Ms Knox, who and management being present.
was appointed as a non-executive director reviewing and approving the directors inMay 2011, will succeed Mr Morland as remuneration report and recommending The nomination committee chairman of the remuneration committee at itto the board.
During the year, the nomination committee the conclusion of the 2013 annual general was chaired by Mr Kahn until his retirement meeting, when Mr Morland will stand down During the year, the chairman of the inJuly when the role of chairman was taken from the committee.
Mr Elliott will join the remuneration committee undertook a by Mr Manser.
Mr Bible, Mr Manser, committee at the same time.
Mr Manser will detailed review of executive pay, inviting MrManzoni, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa stand down from the committee with effect thecompanys 50 largest shareholders to and Mr Santo Domingo were members of from 5 June 2013. engage in the process.
More than 30 this committee throughout the year, and shareholders and other representative bodies MrMackay joined the committee on his The committee is responsible for the agreed to participate, and as a result of those appointment as Executive Chairman.
It had assessment and approval of a broad interactions, the committee made a number been planned that he would succeed remuneration strategy for the group, for the of changes to the structure and reporting of MrManser as chairman of the committee operation of the companys share-based remuneration this year.
atthe conclusion of the 2013 annual general incentive plan and for reviewing and meeting, although Mr Manser will continue approving short-term and long-term Details of the companys remuneration policy tochair the committee during Mr Mackays remuneration for the executive directors and the work of the remuneration committee medical leave of absence if it should be andmembers of the executive committee.
during the year, including the extensive necessary for the committee to meet during shareholder consultation, are in the directors that period.
Ms Weir, who was appointed a The remuneration committee has remuneration report on pages 66 to 85. non-executive director in May 2011, will implemented its strategy of ensuring that become a member of the committee at the employees and executives are rewarded for The corporate accountability and risk same time, in place of MrRamaphosa who their contribution to the groups operating assurance committee CARAC isretiring as a director.
The committee and financial performance at levels which Dr Moyo chaired the committee throughout considers the composition of the board and take account of industry, market and country the year.
MrMackay, MrManser, MrManzoni, its committees, the retirement, appointment benchmarks.
To ensure that the executives MrRamaphosa and Mr Wilson served as and replacement of directors, and makes goals are aligned to those of the company, members for the entire period.
MrKahn appropriate recommendations to the board.
share incentives are considered to be critical andMrPieterse stepped down from the The nomination committee has continued to elements of executive incentive pay.
During committee on their retirement from the board evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and the year the committee engaged the services following the conclusion of the 2012 annual experience of the board and remains of consultants, Kepler Associates.
These general meeting and MrBible and MrClark committed to the progressive renewal of the consultants have no other connection with joined the committee.
Additionally, the board through orderly succession.
At levels below the companys Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms May, vacancies arise they prepare a description executive committee, the companys metregularly with Dr Moyo to discuss ofthe role and capabilities required for the management engages other consultants, implementation and planning issues, and appointment.
Appropriate succession plans ona project basis.
hasattended all meetings of the committee for the non-executive directors, for the since her appointment.
executive directors and for senior Speci cally, during the year the work of the management are also kept under close remuneration committee included: The objective of the committee is to assist review.
The committee is conscious of the the board in the discharge of its need for due regard to be given to diversity reviewing trends in global executive responsibilities in relation to the groups when considering appointments to the remuneration and governance: alcohol policies and corporate accountability, board.
Five of the last eight independent reviewing the key elements and design of including sustainable development, corporate non-executive directors to be appointed by the groups long-term incentive schemes social responsibility, corporate social the board were women, and currently more including peer comparator group investment and ethical commercial than one-third of the companys independent composition : behaviour.
More details of the committees non-executive directors are women.
The reviewing global benchmarks: activities are in the sustainable development committee therefore believes that the reviewing and approving performance review section of this report and in our company is well positioned in terms of targets and conditions for short and separate Sustainable Development Report, thefuture balance of the board.
long-term incentive awards: which is available on our website and, upon reviewing and approving long-term request, in hard copy.
Where non-executive vacancies arise, the incentive awards for executive committee committee may use the services of external members: During the year the committee continued consultants in order to identify suitable reviewing executive director shareholding tofocus on company-speci c and industry candidates for the board to consider.
In relation guidelines: issues which are critical to protecting our to the most recent non-executive board review of performance against agreed licence to operate.
Particular areas of focus appointment, MrElliott, who will join the board criteria: for the committee during the year included: in July, an external search rm was retained reviewing and approving total remuneration areview of the management and reporting of and produced a strong list of candidates, for the executive directors and executive health and safety within the group, our policy who were then shortlisted for consideration committee members: 62 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information on required standards and accountabilities, Our policy classi es all non-audit services useof questionnaires completed by finance and more standardised reporting of health into audit related services being those teams around the world that rate effectiveness and safety matters: a review of our services which are effectively required by law across 17 criteria.
In the current year a further sustainable development performance or regulation, and other non-audit services, review was completed in March 2013 of the including progress towards meeting our and provides that engagements for other overall relationship with the auditors following water and carbon ef ciency targets: non-audit services are subject to formal the rotation of both group audit partners.
consideration of our longer term sustainable pre-approval limits, either by the full audit Following the review, the committee makes development ambitions: and a review of the committee or by the chairman of the audit arecommendation to the board on the approach to sustainability in our newly committee, depending on the level of the reappointment of the external auditors by acquired Carlton & United Breweries CUB fees involved.
All requests for approval have theshareholders.
business in Australia, including its alignment been accompanied by a detailed justi cation to and performance against our sustainable as to why the appointment of the external Taking account of the annual assessment of development priorities overall.
auditors to provide the services is in the best the effectiveness of the audit, the committee interests of the company, and how it is has not considered it necessary to require The disclosure committee proposed that auditor independence be the audit to be put out to tender.
The lead The disclosure committee consists of the safeguarded in connection with the provision group audit partner is required to rotate after Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief of those services.
In the instances where a maximum of five years seven years for Financial Of cer, the Deputy Chairman, one approval was sought for the auditors to material subsidiary companies and the most other non-executive director, and the General provide non-audit services the committee recent change of the lead group audit partner Counsel and Company Secretary or the concluded that the auditors detailed occurred for the 2012 year end.
The audit Deputy Company Secretary.
The function of understanding of the group and ability to committee has reviewed the proposed key the disclosure committee, in accordance with deliver services in a timely fashion provided audit partner rotations during the year.
our inside information policy, is to meet as acost-effective method of delivery without and when required in order to assure compromising auditor independence.
In There are no contractual obligations compliance with the UKs Disclosure and addition, PwC won a competitive tender to restricting the companys choice of Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, advise on a health and wellness project in externalauditor.
asguided by the General Counsel, and to South Africa.
The committee was satis ed ensure that the routes of communication that undertaking this project would not Risk management between excom members, the disclosure compromise the auditors independence.
The groups risk management system committee, the General Counsels of ce, issubject to regular review to ensure thecompany secretarial of ce and investor PwC con rm annually in a formal report to compliance with the Code and the Financial relations are clear, and provide for rapid the audit committee that processes to ensure Reporting Councils guidance to directors escalation to the disclosure committee and compliance with this policy are in place and oninternal control formerly known as the key advisers, and the board, of any decision that these processes are monitored regularly.
Turnbull Guidance 2005 covering internal regarding potential inside information, so that This report includes a statement that, in their control and risk management.
we are able to comply fully with our continuing opinion, PwC believe that the nature of their obligations under the Disclosure and non-audit services has not impaired their Risk and the board of directors Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
Note 3 to the The directors are ultimately responsible for consolidated financial statements has a the groups risk management system and for breakdown of non-audit services provided to reviewing its effectiveness.
There is a regular Accountability the group by the auditors for the year under schedule for the board to consider the review and fees paid to other audit rms.
groups signi cant risks and mitigating The audit committee actions.
The risk management system is A description of the composition, scope of The audit committee is satis ed that, for designed to manage, rather than eliminate, responsibilities and work undertaken by the theperiod under review, the independence the risk of failure to achieve business audit committee during the year is included ofthe auditors has not been affected by the objectives and there is a continuous process inthe section dealing with the board and provision of these non-audit services, which in place for identifying, assessing, managing, itscommittees.
monitoring and reporting on the signi cant risks faced by individual group companies Relationship with auditors The committee has a formal and well and by the group as a whole.
This process  were appointed established system for the review of the has been in place for the year under review asour auditors on 8 February 1999, effectiveness of the external auditors.
This up to the approval of the Annual Report subsequently becoming process involves the external auditors andAccounts.
The principal risks and  LLP PwC in 2003. presenting to the committee their proposed uncertainties facing the group are set out audit strategy followed by the output of their onpages 16 and 17.
We have in place a formal policy on auditor discussions with management.
At the audit independence and non-audit services, with committee meeting in May, the external Executive committee which our external auditors are required to auditors present the output of their detailed Excom has speci c responsibility as the risk comply, to ensure that the independence of year-end work.
In making its assessment of management committee for the groups the auditors is not impaired by the nature of external auditor effectiveness, the committee system of risk management.
Our policy stipulates work reviews the audit engagement letters before our signi cant risks and subsequently reports which is permitted or not permitted to be signature by management, reviews the to the board on material changes and the performed by the auditors, and provides for external auditors summary of group and associated mitigating actions.
In accordance appropriate approval and oversight subsidiary issues and managements with the Turnbull Guidance, reviews on the processes.
During the year more detailed response to the summary, and conducts effectiveness of the risk management system guidance was issued to support the policy on anoverall review of the effectiveness of the were carried out by excom, as the risk the appointment of the auditors to undertake external audit process and the external management committee, in April and non-audit services.
This review is facilitated by the October 2012 and in April 2013.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 63 Corporate governance continued Enterprise-wide risk management Our systems of internal control are designed testing of certain aspects of the internal Excom views the careful and appropriate and operated to support the identi cation, financial control systems by the external management of risk as a key management evaluation and management of risks affecting auditors during the course of their statutory role.
Managing business risk to deliver the group.
These include controls in relation examinations and regular reports to the audit opportunities is a key element of all our to the financial reporting process and committee by the internal and external business activities, and is undertaken using thepreparation of consolidated accounts, auditors.
Our divisional finance, control and apractical and exible framework which but extend across all areas of operations.
assurance committees consider the results provides a consistent and sustained They are subject to continuous review of these reviews to con rm that controls are approach to risk evaluation.
Business risks, ascircumstances change and new functioning and to ensure that any material which may be strategic, operational, financial risksemerge.
breakdowns and remedial actions have been or environmental, or concern the groups reported to the appropriate boards of reputation, are understood and visible.
The Key features of the systems of internal directors.
In relation to our associated business context determines in each situation controlare: undertakings or joint ventures, these matters the level of acceptable risk and controls.
are reviewed at the level of the associates Wecontinue to seek improvement in the the risk management system described orjoint ventures boards or other governing management of risk by sharing best above: committees.
written policies and procedures within our businesses, which are detailed in policy At the half year and at the year end the Key features of our system of risk manuals: members of regional and country business management are: clearly fide ned lines of accountability and executive committees, each of our functional delegations of authority: directors corporate affairs: corporate finance group statements on strategic direction, management of operating risk by using and development: legal: marketing, and ethics and values: appropriate infrastructure, controls, supply chain and human resources, each clear business objectives and business systems and people throughout the ofthe direct reports to the Chief Financial principles: businesses: Of cer finance and control: global template an established risk policy: business continuity planning, including design authority: information technology: a continuous process for identi cation preventative and contingency measures, internal audit: tax: and treasury, and the andevaluation of signi cant risks to the back-up capabilities and the purchase of group head of strategy and planning are achievement of business objectives: insurance: required to submit to the Company Secretary management processes in place to maintenance of a state of preparedness for on behalf of the board formal letters of mitigate signi cant risks to an acceptable compliance with s404 of the US  on compliance with internal level: Oxley Act through the identi cation and controls and key policies, including continuing monitoring of signi cant risks testing of key financial controls under its noti cation of continuing or potential and internal and external environmental Internal Financial Control IFC programme.
signi cant legal, regulatory, environmental factors that may change our risk pro le: This is a voluntary initiative, which and other exposures.
and continues to further strengthen internal a regular review of both the type and control systems and processes within These letters form the subject of reports to amount of external insurance purchased, thegroup: the audit committee, and cover all subsidiary bearing in mind the availability of cover, its key policies employed in managing companies, as well as MillerCoors LLC and cost and the likelihood and magnitude of financial and operating risk involve Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited which submit the risks involved.
segregation of duties, transaction tailored letters of representation.
Executive authorisation, monitoring, financial and directors and executive committee members In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to managerial review and comprehensive sit on the boards of major associated the board on key risks, there is a process of reporting and analysis against approved companies.
Directors and members of the regular reporting to the board through the standards and budgets: executive committee also make annual audit committee on the status of the risk a treasury operating framework which written declarations of interests and are management process.
Since 2010 strategic establishes policies and manages liquidity obliged to report without delay any potential planning, internal audit and other risk control and financial risks, including foreign or actual con icts of interest which may arise.
specialist processes have been integrated exchange, interest rate and counterparty into line managements risk processes and exposures, and incorporates group and The directors are responsible for the groups simpli ed risk reporting.
A process of gradual regional treasury committees that monitor systems of internal control and for reviewing re nement and strengthening has continued these activities and compliance with the their effectiveness annually.
The board has during this year.
Treasury policies, risk limits and conducted a review of the effectiveness of monitoring procedures are reviewed the groups internal controls covering material Key reports include those that identify, regularly by the audit committee on behalf financial, operational and compliance assess and monitor strategic and operational of the board: and controls and risk management systems for risks in each division and on a group basis.
a group tax policy and tax operating the year under review.
Necessary actions are framework which forms the basis of tax taken to remedy any signi cant weaknesses Internal control governance across the group and is identi ed from the boards review of the The Turnbull Guidance recommends internal managed by our group tax function internal control system.
The systems of control practices for UK listed companies to whichmonitors tax risk and implements internal control are designed to manage, assist them in assessing the application of strategies and procedures to control it.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to the Codes principles and compliance with achieve business objectives and can provide the Codes provisions with regard to internal Assurance on compliance with systems of reasonable, but not absolute, assurance control.
internal control and on their effectiveness against material misstatement or loss.
In isobtained through regular management reviewing these, the board has taken into reviews, reviews of key financial controls, account the results of all the work carried internal audit reviews and quality assurance, outby internal and external auditors.
64 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CUB in Australia became part of the group Continuous improvement in the quality and issued share capital of the company, to during the second half of last year.
As part of objectivity of the global internal audit function enable him to address any queries which the integration of CUB into the group, good remains a key objective of the department.
shareholders may have about the progress has been made to embed systems, governance of the company or noncontrols and procedures.
Whistleblowing measures operational aspects of company strategy.
All our employees have the opportunity Itisalso, more broadly, designed to give the The board, with advice from the audit tomake con dential disclosures about board a greater awareness of shareholder committee, has completed its annual review suspected impropriety or wrongdoing.
During the year the Chairman and of the effectiveness of the system of internal Company Secretary or the Deputy Company MrManser, as Deputy Chairman and Senior control and risk management for the period Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Independent Director, accompanied by the since 1 April 2012 in accordance with the Internal Auditor if appropriate, decides on the Company Secretary, met with a number of Turnbull Guidance.
appropriate method and level of investigation.
The Deputy The audit committee is noti ed of all material Chairman and the Company Secretary are Internal audit disclosures made and receives reports on also available to discuss issues with Our global internal audit function consists of the results of investigations and actions shareholders, and views expressed by the group internal audit team, led by the Chief taken.
The audit committee has the power shareholders are communicated to the Internal Auditor, plus regional and country torequest further information, conduct its board.
As part of this initiative the Chairman audit functions that operate in each of the own inquiries or order additional action as offers to meet with signi cant shareholders in groups principal areas of business.
The itsees t. the month before the annual general meeting regional and country functions are centrally speci cally to deal with issues arising from directed by the group internal audit team.
the annual report and notice of the annual Relations with shareholders The country internal audit functions are jointly general meeting.
Institutional and shareholder accountable to local senior finance comment on the annual report is conveyed All shareholders were again encouraged to management and regional heads of internal by the Company Secretary to the full board attend the annual general meeting held in audit.
They also have direct access and and to the audit and remuneration July 2012, which provided shareholders with accountability to local audit committees and committees in relation to matters within the opportunity to ask questions of the board the Chief Internal Auditor.
and chairmen of all the board committees.
At the meeting, all resolutions were put to a vote Internal audit activities, all of which are During April 2012 we also consulted with on a poll, with the results being published on risk-based, are performed by teams of major shareholders before announcing the the companys website, and on the London appropriately quali ed and experienced proposed appointment of MrMackay as and Johannesburg stock exchange news employees.
Third parties may be engaged to Executive Chairman and MrClark as Chief services.
As the geographic spread of support audit work as appropriate.
The Chief Operating Of cer.
The then Chairman, shareholders inevitably means that not every Internal Auditor, who reports functionally to MrKahn, the Senior Independent Director, shareholder can attend a meeting in the UK, the Chief Financial Of cer, has regular MrManser, and the Company Secretary, a video lm and a full transcript of the meetings with the chairman of the audit MrDavidson, conducted a number of calls proceedings of the meeting were published committee and prepares formal reports for and personal meetings with major on the companys website.
Similar each audit committee meeting as to the shareholders and institutional investors to arrangements are planned for the consolidated activities and key findings of discuss the proposals with them.
Following forthcoming annual general meeting.
In order theglobal internal audit function.
the announcement of the appointments, the to further ease access to information, all Senior Independent Director then wrote shareholders were this year given the Our global internal audit function uses a personally to all shareholders setting out the opportunity to receive statutory information standardised group-wide internal audit rationale for the proposed appointments, and from the company electronically.
methodology which is in compliance with the explaining why the directors thought it in the International Standards for the Professional best interests of SABMiller to make these We maintain a dedicated investor relations Practice of Internal Auditing of the Institute appointments.
function which reports to the Director of ofInternal Auditors.
The function operates a Corporate Affairs.
The investor relations team formal global quality assurance and As described in our remuneration report, builds and maintains long-term relationships effectiveness programme.
Accordingly, during 2013 our 50 largest shareholders with institutional investors and analysts and, detailed quality review assessments are wereinvited to meet with the chairman of in partnership with our corporate and performed with regard to the regional and theremuneration committee to discuss divisional management teams and within country internal audit teams, to ensure ourremuneration philosophy.
thescope of regulatory constraints, gives compliance with fide ned quality and presentations on group performance and performance measures.
This process regional businesses and strives to ensure provides a basis for the annual review of that these are understood across the global theeffectiveness of the global internal audit John Davidson equity markets, including in one-to-one function and results in a formal report General Counsel and meetings with investors.
Dialogue on prepared by the Chief Internal Auditor to the Group Company Secretary sustainable developments and socially audit committee to support the committees For and on behalf of the responsible investment matters is handled by formal annual assessment of the board of SABMiller plc the Group Head of Sustainable Development, effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, a who undertakes focused meetings with periodic review of internal audit is undertaken 5 June 2013 interested investors and stakeholders.
by an independent external consultant in accordance with the guidelines of the In addition to scheduled management-led Institute of Internal Auditors.
The audit programmes in which executives interact committee has satis ed itself that adequate, with investors and analysts, the Chairman objective internal audit assurance standards annually contacts all shareholders or their and procedures exist within the group.
representatives holding more than 1% of the SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 65
