Strategic r Strategic r Strategic report eport eport Gover Gover Governance finance finance Financial statements Financial statements Board of directors Committed to the highest standards The Board of Sage provides leadership to the business as a whole, having regard to the interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Donald Brydon CBE, Chairman Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive Neil Berkett Jonathan Howell Ruth Markland Non-executive Executive Biographies are on page 60 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Board of directors continued The Boar d Donald Brydon CBE Neil Berkett Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Nomination Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Donald joined the Board in July 2012 and became Chairman on Neil joined the Board on 5 July 2013.
He is also Chairman of the 1 September 2012.
He is also Chairman of Royal Mail plc and the Guardian Media Group, a Non-executive Director of Bank of Medical Research Council and was, until 19 November 2013, Chairman Queensland Ltd and member of the Board of Trustees of the NSPCC.
Donald had a 20-year career with Barclays Group, He has over 25 years experience in a wide range of highly-competitive during which time he was Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW consumer industries.
Most recently, he was Chief Executive of Virgin Investment Management and acting Chief Executive of BZW followed Media Group from March 2008 to June 2013, having joined ntl, Virgin by 15 years with the AXA Group, including holding the posts of Medias predecessor, as Chief Operating officer in September 2005.
Chairman and Chief Executive of AXA Investment Managers and Before ntl, he was Managing Director, Distribution, at Lloyds TSB plc Chairman of AXA Framlington.
He has also recently chaired the London UK.
His previous roles include Chief Operating officer at Prudential Metal Exchange, Amersham plc, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and the Assurance Company Ltd UK, Head of Retail at St George Bank, ifs School of Finance and is a past Chairman of EveryChild.
He has Senior General Manager at the Australian division of Citibank Limited, also served as Senior Independent Director of Allied Domecq plc and Chief Executive at Eastwest Airlines Australia and Financial Controller Scottish Power plc.
Guy Berruyer Jonathan Howell Chief Executive Independent Non-executive Director Guy was appointed Chief Executive in October 2010.
His Audit Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee, responsibilities include formulation of strategy and running of the Remuneration Committee Group, managing the overall performance of the Group, concentrating Jonathan joined the Board on 15 May 2013 and became Chairman of the on revenue and profitability as well as capital expenditure.
Guy also Audit Committee in November 2013.
He is also Group Finance Director identies acquisitions and monitors competitive forces, as well as of Close Brothers Group plc, joining in February 2008, and previously ensuring an effective and motivated leadership team.
Guy joined Sage held the same position at the London Stock Exchange Group plc since in 1997 to run its French operation and was then appointed to the 1999.
Jonathan has also been a Non-executive Director of EMAP plc Board in January 2000 as Chief Executive for the Mainland Europe and Chairman of FTSE International.
The early part of his career was business.
In 2005 he also took charge of Sages Asian operations at Price Waterhouse where he qualied as a chartered accountant.
before his promotion to Chief Executive, which was announced Ruth Markland in July 2010.
Prior to Sage, Guy was Country Manager and then European Managing Director for US software company Intuit.
Before Senior Independent Non-executive Director this he held senior positions at French hardware company Groupe Bull, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, where he was a Director of Marketing, and at Claris, as Southern Remuneration Committee Chairman European General Manager.
Guy is also a Non-executive Director Ruth was appointed to the Board in September 2006, becoming Senior of Meggitt plc, a leading international company specialising in Independent Director in March 2011.
Ruth is also a Non-executive high-performance components and sub-systems for the aerospace, Director of Standard Chartered plc and a member of the Supervisory defence and energy markets.
She was formerly Managing Partner, Asia for the international law rm Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer.
Changes to the Board In the financial year to 30 September 2013 and to the date of this report, there have been several changes and an announcement regarding a future change, to the Board of directors: Executive Directors Paul Harrison, CFO Retired on 16 August 2013 after 16 years service including 13 years on the Board Steve Hare, CFO Appointment with effect from 3 January 2014 Non-executive Directors Jonathan Howell Joined 15 May 2013 Neil Berkett Joined 5 July 2013 Jo Harlow Joined 5 July 2013 Retired on 4 September 2013 Tamara Ingram Retired on 31 July 2013 after nine years service Ian Mason Retired on 30 November 2013 after six years service Mark Rolfe Retired on 30 November 2013 after six years service Notes: Jo Harlow and the Board agreed that, given the potential conicts of interest which may arise following the announcement by Microsoft of its proposed purchase of Nokias Devices and Services business, where Jo is Executive Vice President of Smart Devices, the decision to retire from the Board was appropriate in the interests of both Sage and Microsoft.
Steve Hare has significant financial and operating experience as a CFO and most recently as Operating Partner at Apax Partners, where he was Co-Head of the Portfolio Support Group.
Prior to joining Apax in 2009, he accumulated over 10 years experience as CFO for three listed companies, most recently with Invensys, a FTSE 100 company, from 2006 to 2009.
60 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Executive Committee Guy Berruyer Ivan Epstein Chief Executive Chief Executive officer, AAMEA Guys biography is within the Board of directors section opposite.
Ivan leads Sages businesses across Australia, Africa, the Middle East Guy is based in the UK.
and Asia, which include some of Sages highest growth countries.
Starting his career at Price Waterhouse, Ivan then co-founded Softline Richard Drury in 1988 leading it from start-up to a listing on the Johannesburg Group Human Resources Director Stock Exchange in 1997.
Softline was delisted and acquired by Sage Richard is responsible for leading human resources at Sage.
His role in 2003, when Ivan joined the Executive Committee as CEO of the is to develop and lead the implementation of our global strategy for Southern Hemisphere, becoming CEO of AAMEA in 2010.
Amongst organisational design, reward, leadership development, performance, his accomplishments, Ivan has been awarded the Ernst & Young talent, employee engagement and internal communications.
Richard South Africas Best Entrepreneur in 1999 2000 in recognition of his joined Sage in June 2013 from technology business Invensys plc, where entrepreneurial attributes and contribution to South African business.
he held a number of human resources leadership roles including Group He was also awarded the Computer Society South Africa IT Personality Human Resources Director, and was responsible for providing services of the Year accolade in 2009 for his contribution to the IT sector.
Ivan is based in Johannesburg, South Africa.
to over 21,000 employees across Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Middle East.
Prior to Invensys Richard worked in human resources in lvaro Ramrez Whitbreads hotel and pub retail businesses and with British Airways, Chief Executive officer, Europe where he held both HR and customer services leadership roles.
Richard is based in the UK.
Since January 2011 lvaro has been responsible for Sages European strategy, operations and business performance.
Previously, as CEO of Amanda Jobbins Sage Spain, he grew the Spanish business both organically and through Group Chief Marketing officer acquisition, transforming it into a market-leading software company.
As Sages first Group CMO, Amanda drives our global brand, product lvaro joined Sage in 2003 after Sage acquired Grupo SP, which he marketing and pricing strategy, corporate communications and global co-founded in 1989.
He grew Grupo SP to become Spains leader for alliance relationships.
She joined Sage in November 2012 from Cisco entry-level business management software, with subsidiaries in Portugal where she was Global Vice President of Partner Marketing based in and across Central and South America.
lvaro is based in Madrid, Spain.
Before this she led Ciscos European Marketing, driving Pascal Houillon the global channel and strategic partner business across the enterprise, Chief Executive officer, North America commercial and small business markets.
In November 2011 Amanda won the Chartered Institute of Marketings Award for International Pascal leads Sages business in the USA, Canada and Brazil.
From Marketer of the Year.
Amanda previously worked in senior marketing 1997 to April 2011 he was CEO of Sage France, where he was also leadership roles for IBM and Symantec in the USA and Europe.
Amanda responsible for Belgium, Brazil, Switzerland and Morocco.
Pascal joined is based in the UK.
Sage France in 1989 and went on to become Regional Director and Sales Director, before leading the Sybel business after it was acquired Klaus-Michael Vogelberg by Sage in 1995.
Starting his career as a systems analyst for UAP Group Chief Technology officer Insurance, Pascal co-founded Sinequanon in 1987, providing business Responsible for Sages global technology strategy and software management solutions to SMEs.
He was also Vice President of Syntec, architecture, Klaus-Michael is also Acting Chief Technology officer for the French software and IT association, for nine years.
Pascal is based Sage Europe.
From 2004 to 2007 he was R&D Director for Sage UK & in Irvine, California, North America.
Klaus-Michael joined us when Sage acquired the German KHK Role of the Executive Committee Software group in 1997, where he was R&D Director and a partner.
The Executive Committee is made up of the eight internationally A software entrepreneur, Klaus-Michael set up his first business aged diverse senior leaders from across the business named above and, 19 while studying aeronautical engineering and national economics.
following the announcement made on 11 November 2013 of the Klaus-Michael is based in the UK.
appointment of Steve Hare as CFO with effect from 3 January 2014, Michael Robinson will include the CFO.
The Committee oversees the sound running Company Secretary and Group Legal Director of all Sage operations and in particular its role is to assist the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including the: Michael joined Sage in 2002 as Company Secretary and Group Legal Director.
After reading Law at Oxford, Michael qualied as a solicitor Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, and spent 15 years at one of the UKs largest law rms.
Michael is policies, procedures and budgets: based in the UK.
Monitoring of operational and financial performance: Assessment and control of risk: Prioritisation and allocation of resources: and Monitoring of competitive forces in each area of operation.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61
