n o e i t e t a t r i e m n u m m e o R C E x C e e c h n i u e o e t t i i f v t t E a i e x Corporate governance report Our governance framework The elements of our governance framework are listed below: Responsibilities The Board The Board is responsible for the overall management of Sage, our strategy and long-term objectives.
It provides leadership to Sage having regard to the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in fullling its financial and risk responsibilities.
The Audit Committee oversees our Board financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and reviews the work of internal and external audit.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for the structure, size and composition of the Board to ensure it remains appropriate for our needs and plans for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, the Company Secretary and senior executives of Sage.
For further information please see pages 63 to 68 Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and is responsible for overseeing our operations in the regions and also for overseeing our Group-wide functional areas.
For further information please see page 61 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2013 and to the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
The Code is publicly available at the website of the FRC www.
This corporate governance section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
62 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 n m C e i o c m m m u o t m o i i N v t t C e e e e e t t t i i d m u m A o C Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements How our governance framework operates The Board All directors are subject to election or re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
Role of the Board The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved The Chairman to it for decision, including: The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly dened in written terms of reference Strategy and long-term objectives: for each role.
These terms of reference are available on our website Acquisitions and major capital projects, contracts and investments: www.
Business plans, annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and trading performance: The role of Chairman carries a particular responsibility to monitor Capital structure and adequacy of funding: and assess Sages corporate governance practices.
To ensure a proper dialogue with directors, the Chairman holds meetings with Preliminary announcements of interim and final results and reports the non-executive directors without the executive directors to assess to shareholders: and their views.
In addition, the non-executive directors have met without Ensuring effectiveness of internal controls and risk management.
the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed These meetings without the Chairman are chaired by the Senior on 21 November 2013.
The schedule is available via our website Independent Director.
The Board also delegates other matters to Board The Chairman also ensures that shareholder communications are committees and management as appropriate.
discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders The Board meets not less than six times per year.
During this year, it met have access to the non-executive directors, through a request seven times.
to the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, the Company The Senior Independent Director Secretary and the Board members, plans the agenda for each Board The role of Senior Independent Director provides a point of contact meeting, which is issued with supporting papers during the week for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other before the meeting.
These supporting papers provide appropriate than through the Chairman.
Ruth Markland, who is Senior Independent information to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
Board Director for Sage, is available for shareholders to consult.
meetings are held at our operating companies both inside and outside Company Secretary the UK.
Non-executive directors are also encouraged to visit our overseas operations on a regular basis.
This provides the Board and The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure good information individual directors with the opportunity to broaden their understanding ows to the Board and its committees and between senior of Sage and the key markets in which we operate.
He facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with professional development as Board composition required.
He also ensures Board procedures are complied with and The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Company and three independent non-executive directors.
The biographies Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice and assistance, of these directors can be found on page 60.
In addition, following and is responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
the announcement on 11 November 2013 of the appointment of The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Steve Hare as CFO with effect from 3 January 2014, the Board for the Board as a whole.
will also include the CFO.
The directors have a range of experience Induction and professional development and can bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital To ensure a full understanding of Sage is developed, on appointment, to our success.
It is the balance of skills, experience, independence new Board members undergo a full, formal and tailored induction and knowledge of those directors which ensures the duties and programme.
In addition, tailored induction training is provided for directors when joining Board committees.
responsibilities of the Board and its committees are discharged effectively.
Donald Brydon was considered independent on his During the year, Jonathan Howell and Neil Berkett received such appointment.
Ruth Markland, Jonathan Howell and Neil Berkett an induction.
As new Chair of the Audit Committee, Jonathans are all considered to be independent Non-executive Directors and induction included meetings with the outgoing Audit Committee Jo Harlow was also considered an independent Non-executive Director Chair, Mark Rolfe, as well as a detailed review of Audit Committee during her time in ofce.
Sage continues to be very supportive of the aims and objectives To assist the Board in its responsibility to shareholders for the proper of The Davies Report on Women on Boards.
Following the retirement management of Sage, training is made available to all directors and of Tamara Ingram and that of Jo Harlow, former independent training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation procedure.
Non-executive Directors the Board, as at the date of this Annual All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Report & Accounts, comprises 20% women 29% in FY12.
Secretary who ensures that directors take independent professional The Chairman, with the Nomination Committee, is considering the advice as required, at Sages expense, when it is judged necessary future composition of the Board.
The Board must continue to provide to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
strong leadership at Sage, and, therefore, continues to appoint only the most appropriate candidates to the Board.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Corporate governance report continued Conicts of interest Board and committee meeting attendance Under the Companies Act 2006 a director must avoid a situation Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that Director meetings meetings meetings meetings conicts, or possibly may conict with Sages interests.
The Act allows Donald Brydon 7 7 3 3 5 6 directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain Guy Berruyer 7 7 1 a provision to this effect.
The articles of association give the directors Paul Harrison 6 6 authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to 2 2 2 2 Tamara Ingram 6 6 3 3 2 2 5 5 allow conicts of interest to be dealt with.
In order to address this issue, Ruth Markland 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 at the commencement of each Board meeting, the Board considers a 3 3 3 Ian Mason 7 7 3 4 2 3 5 6 register of interests and potential conicts of directors and gives, when Mark Rolfe 7 7 4 4 3 3 6 6 appropriate, any necessary approvals.
4 4 4 4 Jonathan Howell 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether 5 5 5 5 Neil Berkett 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 1 to authorise a conict or potential conict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the Notes: relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision, the directors 1 Retired from the Board on 16 August 2013 must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely 2 Retired from the Board and Board committees on 31 July 2013 3 to promote Sages success.
The directors are able to impose limits Unable to attend due to a prior commitment 4 Joined the Board and Board committees on 15 May 2013 or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
5 Joined the Board and Board committees on 5 July 2013 unable to attend These procedures on conict have been followed throughout the year Committee meetings due to a critical illness in the family and the Board considers the approach to operate effectively.
Audit Committee Board evaluation Jonathan Howell is Chair of the Audit Committee and, as a member The Board recognises the importance of reviewing its practices of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and and performance on a regular basis.
To achieve this, the Board has the CFO of a FTSE 250 company, is considered by the Board to evaluated its performance and that of its committees and individual have the recent and relevant experience required by the UK Corporate members.
In the past, the Board has evaluated its performance Governance Code 2012.
Other members of the Committee are in a number of different ways including the completion of detailed independent Non-executive Directors Ruth Markland and Neil Berkett questionnaires and discussions between individual directors and the who have a wide range of relevant business experience.
Having sought the assistance of an independent third party satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise to full in its evaluation in 2012, and having regard to changes in the Board its responsibilities.
composition during the year, the Board evaluation in 2013 was carried Committee objectives and responsibilities out by the Chairman through correspondence and interviews with each The objective of the Committee is to oversee Sages financial reporting, director.
Following this review, a summary of the results of the evaluation, risk management and internal controls procedures and the work of its together with the Chairmans observations and recommendations, was prepared and shared with all members of the Board.
The main internal and external auditors.
outcome of the evaluation this year was to shape and define the Boards The Committees main responsibilities, as set out in its terms of objectives for the coming year, continuing the focus on Group strategy reference, are to review and advise the Board on: and ensuring the structures, capabilities and reporting are in place The interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies to achieve the Boards goals.
The Chairmans performance was used and whether significant financial judgements are sound: evaluated by the Senior Independent Director through correspondence and discussion with the Chairman and the other independent The effectiveness of the internal controls environment and risk non-executive directors.
management procedures, including whistleblowing procedures: and The nature and extent of significant financial and business risks to Committees of the Board Sage and the mitigation of these risks.
The three committees of the Board deal with specic aspects of Sages In addition, the Committee is responsible for: affairs.
These committees are the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Company Secretary Reviewing and approving the nature and scope of external and acts as secretary to all the committees.
Further details on each of these internal audit work, the results of such audit work and the related committees can be found on the remainder of this page and on pages responses from management: 65 to 68.
Monitoring compliance with the policy on non-audit services: Ensuring the external auditors are effective and independent: and Making recommendations to the Board on external auditor remuneration and reappointment.
The Committee terms of reference, which can be found on our website, are reviewed annually and have been updated to reect the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, requiring a determination of whether the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee is satisfied that the terms of reference enable it to full its responsibilities.
64 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Committee meetings on the outcome of the impairment review performed by management.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external All non-executive directors are members of the Committee and auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee: attend each meeting.
In addition, meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the CFO, the Director of Disposals.
The calculation of the loss on disposal of businesses Finance and the Group Risk and Assurance Director.
Other senior of is an area of complexity where management applies judgement.
executives will attend as required to provide information on matters The Committee discussed the methodology proposed by being discussed which fall into their area of responsibility.
The external management, including the judgements made, to allocate goodwill.
auditors,  LLP, also attend each meeting.
External audit reported to the Committee on the disposals, including During the year, the Committee meets individually with the external the goodwill disposed of: and auditors, the CFO and the Group Risk and Assurance Director Archer Capital litigation.
The claim for damages made by Archer without executives present.
Capital in relation to the potential purchase of MYOB is strongly rejected by management.
On that basis, and with supporting expert The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, legal advice, management do not currently consider there to be to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the a present obligation and the possibility of an outow of resources Committee met four times.
As such, no provision or contingent liability has been In order to full its objectives and responsibilities, the Committee recognised in these financial statements.
The Committee received is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information a report of the last status for the claim and agreed the approach with from management.
External audit discussed the matter with internal and external legal counsel and reported their findings to the Committee.
Activities of the Committee The main activities of the Committee during the year are set out below: Internal controls and risk management The Committee reviews the framework of internal controls and the Financial reporting processes by which the Groups control environment is evaluated.
The Committee reviewed and considered the following areas in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of the interim and annual In this regard, the Committee received reports from internal audit on the financial statements: operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal controls and procedures.
External audit has also provided input and observations The appropriateness of accounting policies used: on the internal control environment and on any specic control issues Compliance with external and internal financial reporting standards that occurred during the year.
The Committee monitored whistleblowing and policies: reports and other significant control issues or incidents that occurred.
significant judgements made: In reviewing whistleblowing, fraud and incident reports, the Committee Disclosures and presentations: and assessed the cause of situations, along with actions taken to resolve Whether the Annual Report & Accounts are fair, balanced and prevent recurrence.
The Committee also reviewed compliance and understandable.
activities in relation to the Groups policies and received a report on the status of compliance with these policies.
In carrying this out, the Committee considered the work and recommendations of the Group Finance Team.
In addition, the The Committee reviews the Groups risk management framework Committee received reports from the external auditors setting out detailed on pages 68 to 69 in order to ensure it is appropriate and operating effectively.
In doing so, the Committee received reports their view on the accounting treatments and judgements included in the financial statements.
The external auditors reports are based from the Group Risk and Assurance Director, which covered: on a full audit of the annual financial statements and a high-level The Groups risk appetite: review of the interim financial statements.
The effectiveness of the risk management processes and their The significant judgements considered by the Committee were: adoption across the Group: and A summary of the top risks to the Group, controls identied to Revenue recognition.
The key area of judgement in respect mitigate these risks and actions planned to reduce risks where of recognising revenue is the timing of recognition, specically in considered necessary.
relation to recognition and deferral of revenue on support contracts where management assumptions and estimates are necessary.
The current top risks to the Group are set out on page 47.
For The Committee considered a revenue recognition paper prepared discussion and review, these top risks are split into two, with the top by management which concluded that no changes to the fair value four risks being assessed by the Board and the remaining risks being allocation methodology had been made in the current year.
The assessed by the Committee.
Committee have concluded that the timing of recognition continues As part of its agenda, the Committee allowed time for in-depth reviews to be in line with IFRS requirements.
External audit performed detailed of particular risk areas.
During the year, the risk areas considered were audit procedures on revenue recognition and reported their findings the provision of online services, information security, risks within the to the Committee: Groups payments businesses and the impact of changes to corporate Goodwill impairment.
The judgements in relation to goodwill governance rules.
impairment testing relate to the assumptions applied in calculating the value in use of the operating companies being tested for impairment.
In addition to the internal controls and risk management activities The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the future outlined above, the Committee also received regular reports from performance expectations of the business.
Business plans prepared the Group Tax Director on the Groups tax policy, approach to tax by management supporting the future performance expectations management and status of compliance.
used in the calculation were approved by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Committee received a detailed report The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Corporate governance report continued Internal audit 2013 2012 m m The Committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of internal audits activities as well as its effectiveness throughout the year.
Total audit fees 2.0 2.0 The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Committee at the Non-audit fees: beginning of the financial year, with any subsequent changes to the plan Tax compliance services 0.6 0.6 requiring Committee approval.
The nature and scope of internal audits Tax advisory services 0.4 0.1 work is reviewed and approved and the results of audits are assessed Other non-audit services 0.3 0.1 alongside managements responses.
Issues within audit reports which Total non-audit fees 1.3 0.8 are graded weak are considered in detail by the Committee along with Total fees 3.3 2.8 the appropriateness of mitigation plans to resolve issues identied.
At each meeting, the Committee received reports from the Group Risk External audit appointment and Assurance Director, in her role as Head of Internal Audit, in order The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to ascertain progress in completing the internal audit plan and to review to the reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these the results of audits.
recommendations, the Committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors which may An internal audit charter is in place which outlines the objectives, impact the external auditors reappointment.
authority, scope and responsibilities of internal audit.
Performance against this charter, along with the effectiveness of internal audit, The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years.
The most recent change for Sage occurred in the year is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
to 30 September 2010 and, therefore, partner rotation is due in the External audit effectiveness and independence year ending 30 September 2015.
The Committee discussed and approved the scope of and the fees The current external auditors,  LLP, were first for the external audit plan.
In addition, the Committee considered appointed in 1988 and the external audit has not been formally tendered external audits assessment of the significant risks in the Groups since then.
A formal re-proposal of the audit approach did, however, financial statements, which for this year were goodwill and revenue take place in 2010 at the time of the last partner rotation.
Throughout the year, the Committee tracked these risks and associated work undertaken by external audit has been evaluated.
Having completed the activities outlined, the Committee remains confident that the effectiveness and independence of the external The Committee monitored the conduct and effectiveness of external auditors is not impaired in any way.
There are no contractual restrictions audit.
To do this, the Committee reviewed: on the choice of external auditor and therefore a resolution proposing Experience and expertise of the auditors: the reappointment of  LLP as external auditors The fullment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from will be put to the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
this plan: The Committee will continue to assess the effectiveness and The robustness and perceptiveness of the external auditors independence of the external auditors.
In doing so, the Committee in their handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions The content of the external auditors report.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
We will comply with the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market In order to ensure the independence of the external auditors, the for FTSE 350 companies, which is expected to come into effect from Committee received a formal statement of independence from the 1 October 2014.
Under the transitional arrangements, the Committee external auditors.
In addition, the Committee ensured compliance with expects a formal tender process to be held no later than two years from Sages Auditor Independence Policy, the requirements of which are: the end of the current audit engagement partner rotation period.
As The external auditors may not undertake certain prohibited services, partner rotation is due in the year ended 30 September 2015, a tender process is expected to be held no later than 2017. which include acquisition due diligence, internal audit services and legal and actuarial advice: Nomination Committee The Committee must approve any individual non-audit services above Donald Brydon, Chairman of the Board, is Chair of the Nomination a specic fee value: and Committee.
Other members of the Committee are independent NonThe ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees must be within Sages executive Directors Ruth Markland, Jonathan Howell and Neil Berkett.
Committee objectives and responsibilities The Committee believes that it receives particular benefit from certain The objective of the Committee is to review the composition of the non-audit services provided by the external auditors due to their wide Board and to plan for its progressive refreshing, with regard to balance and detailed knowledge of Sage.
Discretion is therefore used, subject to and structure.
The Committee also considers issues of succession.
the controls set out above, in obtaining such services from the external The Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating to the auditors, although other large accountancy practices are also used composition of the Board and its committees.
In particular it is as and when appropriate.
During the year, non-audit services obtained responsible for: from the external auditors included tax compliance and advice and support relating to corporate restructuring.
Reviewing the structure of the Board: Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board: Advising the Board on any areas where further recruitment may be appropriate: and Succession planning for key executives at Board level and below.
66 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements Where necessary and appropriate, recruitment consultants are used Committee objectives and responsibilities to assist the Committee in delivering its objectives and responsibilities.
The Committee determines the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, the Company Secretary and senior The Committee leads the process for the identication and selection executives of Sage.
of new directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
The Committee also makes recommendations The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the to the Board on membership of its committees.
Board, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration.
The Committee determines the contract terms, The Committee terms of reference, which can be found on our website remuneration and other benets for each of the executive directors, www.
com, are reviewed on an annual basis and updated including performance share awards, performance-related bonus as required.
schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee Committee meetings also monitors remuneration for senior executives below Board level.
The The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
to meet at least once per year.
During this financial year, the Committee The Committee is advised by Deloitte LLP, an independent rm of met three times.
Services provided by other parts of Deloitte are Activities of the Committee specic corporate finance support in the context of merger and acquisition activity and unrelated corporate advisory services plus the provision of During the year, the Nomination Committee dealt with a number regular tax compliance services to our North American business.
of matters, including: The Committee terms of reference, which can be found on our website, The appointment of three non-executive directors one of whom are reviewed on an annual basis and updated as required.
has since retired from the Board : A number of senior executive appointments: and Committee meetings A review of succession planning for key executives at Board level The Chairman, along with all non-executive directors are members and below.
of the Committee and attend each meeting.
The Chief Executive may, as required, attend meetings, except where his own performance In identifying potential new non-executive directors, the Committee or remuneration are under review.
has retained the services of Lygon Group, The Zygos Partnership and Egon Zehnder as executive search consultants.
These consultants have The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, no connection to Sage other than the provision of these services.
They to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the provided and continue to provide lists of potential candidates having Committee met six times.
regard to Sages policies and the terms of reference of the Committee.
In order to full its objectives and responsibilities, the Committee During the original search for new non-executive directors, a number is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information of candidates met members of the Committee, who then determined in advance of meetings.
to approach three new non-executive directors.
The three new Activities of the Committee non-executive directors were independent on their respective Full details of Sages remuneration policy and the matters addressed appointments to the Board.
The Committee settled the terms in the year can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages of their appointments which were recommended to the Board.
In identifying a potential new CFO, the Committee retained the services of Russell Reynolds as executive search consultants.
Internal controls and risk management They have no connection with the Company other than for the provision The system of internal controls and risk management is designed to meet of executive search services.
During the search, a number of candidates our particular needs and to address the risks to which our business met members of the Committee and other senior executives.
By its nature, this system can only provide reasonable, these meetings, the Committee determined to approach Mr Hare.
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee determined the terms of his appointment which were The effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk recommended to the Board.
management is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the The search is ongoing for non-executive directors to join the Board.
There is an ongoing process for Sage and the Committee value the aims and objectives of The Davies identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Report on Women on Boards and support and apply the Group Group which is managed on a day-to-day basis by the Group Risk and diversity policy set out on page 51.
Prior to Jo Harlows retirement, Assurance Director and such a review was undertaken during the year.
there was 25% female representation at Board level.
Whilst no formal Monitoring and review measurable objectives have been set for female representation at Board There are processes in place to monitor the system of internal controls level, the Board must continue to provide strong leadership at Sage, and the reporting of any significant control failings or weaknesses and and, therefore, the Committee having regard to the Group diversity planned mitigating actions.
These processes include annual certication, policy, continues to recommend for appointment only the most internal audit activity and Audit Committee review.
appropriate candidates to the Board.
On an ongoing basis, Sage operating companies certify to the risk and Remuneration Committee assurance team working with the Group Risk and Assurance Director Ruth Markland, Senior Independent Director, is Chair of the that Sages policy requirements have been received and understood.
Other members of the Committee are the In addition, management representations covering compliance with Chairman, Donald Brydon and independent Non-executive Directors relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information are collated Jonathan Howell and Neil Berkett.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Corporate governance report continued The governance framework for risk management and the key Risk management processes and procedures are set to ensure procedures, which the directors have established with a view to that risks are identied from a top down strategic perspective as providing an effective system of internal controls, are set out below.
well as a bottom up local perspective.
During the year, processes and procedures have operated as described above.
Facilitated risk Risk management processes and responsibilities workshops have been completed with the Executive Committee and The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success major territories around the Group and results from risk management of Sage are an integral part of the internal controls environment.
activities have been reported to and discussed directly with the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the Board.
Risk appetite Risk appetite is utilised to ensure the correct focus is placed on the Internal audit correct risks.
Identied risks are scored on a gross and a net risk basis Internal audit activities are provided by an in-house team supplemented using our predened scoring matrix.
Risks are then prioritised based on under co-source agreements by third-party providers.
The role of Head both gross and net risk scores and using our risk appetite.
The top four of Internal Audit is undertaken by the Group Risk and Assurance risks are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis, with prioritised risks Director who has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and its below the top four being reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Chair in order to ensure independence.
Committee also reviews the assurance gained through reliance on controls to mitigate risks, i. e. the delta between gross and net risk score.
Audit Committee The Board The Audit Committee is The Board has overall responsible for the independent responsibility for risk management, review and challenge of the the setting of risk appetite and adequacy and effectiveness the implementation of the risk Audit of the risk management approach.
The Board The Audit Committee review and reviews the output from the Group Committee challenge the Group Risk Report Risk Report with specic focus which is then submitted to the on the top four risks.
Group Group Risk and Executive Committee Board Assurance Director The Executive Committee is The Group Risk and Assurance responsible for the identication, Director is responsible for the reporting and ongoing management facilitation and implementation of risks and for the stewardship of the risk management approach.
of the risk management approach Group Risk Executive throughout Sage.
The Group The Executive Committee identies and Assurance Committee Risk and Assurance Director and assesses the key strategic Director consolidates the regional risk risks to the Group on at least reports and creates a Group Risk an annual basis.
The outputs Report containing the top local of the assessment are sent to the risks and the responses to the key Board for review and to the country CEOs for inclusion in their local strategic risks for Sage as a whole.
The Group Risk Report is sent to risk assessment exercises.
the Executive Committee for review Regional Country and challenge.
management CEOs Regional management Country CEOs Regional management are Country CEOs are responsible for responsible for the reporting, the identication, reporting and challenge and ongoing ongoing management of risks in management of risks in their their respective countries.
Regional CEOs facilitate local risk assessment management, with support from exercises to review the key strategic the Group Risk and Assurance risks and to identify top local risks Director, review and challenge the within their country.
The outputs risk information from the countries of these assessment exercises are and agree the top regional risks sent to regional management and and the regional response to the the Group Risk and Assurance key strategic risks.
Director for review and challenge.
68 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Governance finance Financial statements It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board Corporate Communications and Group Legal.
These functions report on the extent to which systems of internal controls are effective.
The to the Board through its executive members and the members of the internal audit plan is determined through a structured process of risk Executive Committee.
assessment and the scope of work provides assurance over both key A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered centrally, risks to Sage and its main business functions.
have been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
The internal audit plan set out at the beginning of the year is exed These policies cover areas such as finance, data protection and as necessary during the year to take into account any key business mergers and acquisitions.
During this year, key areas reviewed, over and above The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local financial, HR and IT controls, were the provision of online services, executive management teams.
Details of the authority delegated to local information security, treasury, storage of source code and compliance and regional management are set out in a delegation of authority matrix with external regulatory and internal policy requirements.
The full which is communicated to management throughout Sage.
These teams plan was delivered during the year and the results were in line are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses with expectations.
within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act Other internal controls procedures subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by Whistleblowing the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in many Budgetary process of our operating companies including all those in the UK and US A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets allowing employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty for all operating companies being approved by respective local boards.
or malpractice on an entirely condential basis.
Processes for the Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and condential reporting of concerns exist in France and Germany and the approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the Group continues to seek the introduction of further telephone hotlines directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor where local legislation permits.
The Audit Committee receives regular financial performance.
reports on any matters raised through these services and monitors Investment appraisal including acquisitions their use throughout the Group.
Budgetary approval and dened authorisation levels regulate capital Financial reporting expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers As part of the general internal controls and risk management proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition activity processes, Sage also has specic internal controls and risk is subject to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, management systems to govern financial reporting.
The requirements financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
for producing financial information are governed by the Group Accounting Manual, against which the Groups external auditors Relations with shareholders review the financial statements.
Financial control requirements are set Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual out in a detailed Financial Controls Policy, which is subject to internal Report & Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive audit reviews on an annual basis.
Any part of the Group not subject one.
All up-to-date information on Sages activities, published financial to a specic internal audit review of financial controls in any given results and the Annual Report & Accounts can be found on our year is required to self-assess on the effectiveness of their financial website www.
There is regular dialogue with individual control environment.
institutional shareholders and there are presentations to analysts after our announcement of the year end and half year results.
Processes have been set up during the year to ensure that assurance can be provided over whether the Annual Report & Accounts is At each meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to considered to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Management investors and any communication from shareholders to ensure that representations, external and internal audit reviews and an independent directors, both executive and non-executive, have an understanding of messaging review have taken place to provide this assurance.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high Information included in the Directors report recruitment standards and the provision of subsequent training and Certain information that fulls the requirements of the Corporate development.
High-quality personnel are seen as an essential part Governance Statement can be found in the Directors report in the of the control environment.
sections headed Substantial shareholdings, Deadlines for voting Management structure rights, Repurchase of shares, Amendment of the Companys articles of association, Appointment and replacement of directors and A clearly dened organisational structure exists within which individual Powers of the directors and is incorporated into this corporate responsibilities are identied and can be monitored.
The management governance section by reference.
of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
By order of the Board The Executive Committee meets regularly to agree strategy, monitor performance and consider key business issues.
As part of its review, it considers the risks associated with the delivery of strategy and important governance issues within operating companies.
Within the Group team, based in Newcastle upon Tyne, there are a M J Robinson, Company Secretary number of central administrative functions such as Group Treasury, 4 December 2013 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69
