auDit CoMMittee rePort understanding the strategy at both Group auDit CoMMittees terMs of referenCe and operational levels to ensure that The Board expects the Audit Committee business risks and other relevant issues are tohave an understanding of: effectively identified and communicated to the Board: the principles, contents, and developments in financial reporting, reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing including the applicable accounting Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures standards and statements of are in place for employees to raise, in recommended practice: confidence, any concerns that they may have relating to suspected malpractice, the key aspects of the Groups illegal acts, omissions or other unethical operations, including corporate policies, corporate conduct, regarding financial or its products and services, Group other matters: and ensuring that financing, and systems of Dear shareholDer arrangements are in place for investigation internalcontrol: The Audit Committee has been established by of such matters and follow-up action: and the matters that could influence or the Board and consists entirely of independent considering any other topics specifically distortthe presentation of accounts non-executive Directors.
The primary role of delegated to the Committee by the Board andkey figures: the Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity from time to time.
of the financial reporting of the Group and to the principles of, and developments in, ensure appropriate risk management and The Audit Committee is required to report its company law, sector-specific laws and internal control procedures.
To enable the findings to the Board, identifying any matters other relevant corporate legislation: AuditCommittee to fulfil this role, its main which it considers that action or improvement the roles of internal and external auditing responsibilities include: is needed, and to make recommendations as and risk management: and tothe steps taken.
considering and making recommendations the regulatory framework for the Groups tothe Board, and ultimately shareholders for CoMPosition of the auDit CoMMittee businesses.
approval, of the appointment of the external Member Appointment Date auditor, the audit fee, initiating tender The full Terms of Reference of the Audit David Best processes in accordance with regulatory Committee may be found on the Companys Committee Chairman 1 May 2007 requirements, and any questions relating website or may be obtained from the Group Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 tothe resignation or dismissal of the Company Secretary.
Andy Hamment 8 April 2011 externalauditor: Giles Kerr 2 September 2013 Ian Much 21 December 2005 assessing annually the independence and The Audit Committee normally invites the Retired from the objectivity of the external auditor, its non-executive Chairman, Group Chief AuditCommittee on compliance with regulatory requirements Executive, Group Finance Director, Group 5 December 2013 and authorising the provision, if any, of Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit, and non-audit services: senior representatives of the external audit firm There was full attendance at each of the to attend its meetings, although it reserves the monitoring the integrity of the half-year threemeetings of the Audit Committee held right to request any of these individuals to and annual Accounts and related formal in2013, subject to the appointment dates withdraw from any meeting.
Company announcements, and reviewing shown above.
Two members constitute a significant financial reporting judgements quorum for the Audit Committee.
The Group The Audit Committee also holds separate contained within them, before their Company Secretary acts as Secretary to discussions with the Head of Internal Audit submission to the Board: theAudit Committee.
andexternal auditor without executive management being present.
In addition, David Best is to retire from the Board at the discussing with the external auditor issues theChairman of the Audit Committee holds and reservations, if any, arising from the conclusion of the AGM 2014, at which point separate meetings with the internal and Giles Kerr will be appointed Chairman of the interim review and final audit and any other external auditor during the course of the matters the external auditor may raise: Audit Committee.
Succession planning for this yeartodiscuss both routine and business transfer commenced in early 2013, culminating reviewing and approving the terms of the relevantmatters.
in the appointment of Giles Kerr in September management representation letter 2013 as a non-executive Director.
During 2013, the Audit Committees Terms addressed to the external auditor: ofReference were updated as required by Collectively the members of the Audit reviewing the effectiveness of the internal theUK Corporate Governance Code to enable Committee have significant commercial and audit function: considering the major findings the Audit Committee to advise the Board on financial experience at a senior management of internal audit activities and managements whether it believes that taken as a whole the level.
Both David Best and Giles Kerr have the response: ensuring co-ordination between Annual Report & Accounts is fair, balanced and recent and relevant financial experience the Head of Internal Audit and the external understandable and provides the information required by the UK Corporate Governance auditor and ensuring that the internal audit necessary for shareholders to assess the Code to chair the Audit Committee.
For details function is adequately resourced and has Companys business model andstrategy.
of the qualifications of members of the Audit appropriate standing within the Group: Committee, please refer to the Board Directors reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups biographies shown on pages 28 and 29. internal controls and risk management systems ensuring that the process is active and dynamic: 36 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION aCtivities of the auDit CoMMittee The Audit Committee met on 14 February 2013 to consider the 2012 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the following business on the meeting dates indicated below: Meeting Date 18 July 2013 24 october 2013 21 February 2014 Standing Considered the external auditors Discussed and approved the Reviewed and accepted the Report to the Audit items Interim Review for the half-year external auditors audit planning Committee on the 2013 audit made by the ended 30 June 2013: report, including the scope of work, external auditor: audit approach and fees for the Reviewed and approved the terms Reviewed and approved the terms of the 2013 audit: of the management representation management representation letter addressed to letter addressed to the external Considered potential areas requiring the external auditor: auditor: key accounting judgments: Reviewed key accounting judgements, including Reviewed key accounting Considered the appropriate level of consideration of those significant issues outlined judgements: materiality and noted the implication on page 38: of applying different levels of Discussed the Groups Preliminary Considered the materiality of any unadjusted materiality: the Audit Committee Announcement and the Interim auditfindings: agreed to maintain the level at 7.5% Report 2013, together with the Reviewed and discussed the Groups Preliminary of adjusted profit before tax: slides for the analysts presentation Announcement and the Annual Report and on the Groups interim results: Received an update from the Accounts 2013 and the slides for the analysts external auditor on accounting, Reviewed and agreed the going presentation on the Groups 2013 results: reporting and governance concern basis to be adopted for the Reviewed and agreed the going concern basis to developments: 2013 Interim Report and Accounts: be adopted for the 2013 Accounts: and Received and considered a further Approved the Audit Committee Report for 2013: update from the Head of Internal Received and considered an internal Audit, noting the progress made Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk audit activity report, which provided during the year, and agreed the management and internal control systems and an update on ongoing matters under operations activities that would disclosures made in the Annual Report 2013: review by the Head of Internal Audit bethe key focus for review in the and the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the Notice of Meeting for the 2014 coming months: Annual General Meeting and the 2014 Annual Undertook a performance evaluation General Meeting Proxy Form: of the Audit Committee: Received and considered a report presented by Carried out an appraisal exercise on the Head of Internal Audit, which included the the effectiveness of the external proposed 2014 internal audit plan, and approved audit process: the Group Internal Audit Charter: Reviewed and updated the Audit Reviewed the status of the Business Committee Terms of Reference: and ContinuityPlans and IT Risk Assessments againstGroup policy: Approved an updated Group Whistle-blowing Procedure.
Received an update on the progress of the Groups anti-bribery training programme: Approved the scope of the external auditors 2014 interim review: Considered the re-tendering of external audit services, which is discussed in detail on page 39: and Held separate private meetings with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, without executive management being present.
Special items Discussed the financial performance Discussed the financial performance of Capo of Capo Industries in order to assess Industries and its ongoing consolidation with executive managements proposal another of the Groups operations to consider for an impairment of goodwill.
This is executive managements assertion that a further detailed further on page 38 overleaf: impairment of goodwill was not required at the point of consolidation.
This is detailed further on Received an update on the audit page 38 overleaf.
partner rotation process: and Received and considered a report on the impact of revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 37 auDit CoMMittee rePort CONTINUED siGnifiCant risKs ConsiDereD By the auDit CoMMittee Significant risks considered by the committee How the risk was addressed by the committee Goodwill impairment The carrying value of goodwill relies on assumptions and judgements The Audit Committee recognises the carrying value of goodwill as a key made by executive management.
area of judgement and as such closely reviews executive managements assumptions at both year-end and the half-year.
Executive management had posted a 12.7m impairment charge againstCapo Industries goodwill in the first half of the year.
During the first half of 2013 a number of key contracts were not awarded to Capo Industries, such that at the half year management Management performed an annual impairment assessment for concluded that the position had changed sufficiently to warrant an alloperating businesses at 31 December 2013. impairment of the Capo Industries goodwill in the amount of 12.7m.
The Audit Committee discussed the updated assumptions with management and Deloitte and concluded that the impairment was reasonable and justified.
In November 2013, the decision was taken to merge Capo Industries with Ketema in order to enhance the operational management of Capo Industries.
The Committee agrees with management and the external auditors view that no further impairment was triggered at this time.
Following the annual impairment assessment of all the other operating businesses, the Audit Committee was satisfied that no additional charge for impairment was required.
Acquisition accounting The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Thermal The Group recognised goodwill of 19.0m and intangible assets Engineering Holding Limited Thermal on 29 November 2013 for a of 1.8m on the acquisition of Thermal.
The Audit Committee held cash consideration of 28.3m, less cash acquired of 0.2m and including discussions with executive management regarding the procedures the repayment of 6.5m of debt in the business at acquisition.
performed to fair value the assets and liabilities acquired.
There is judgement in determining the valuation of the intangible assets The external auditor provided the Audit Committee with details of the and associated goodwill with the acquisition.
audit work performed to assess that the assets and liabilities acquired are held at fair value.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the assumptions used were appropriate and that the assets and liabilities are valued at fair value.
Provisions Provisions or accruals are held where management considers there is an The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can be reliably had made its accounting judgements to determine the level of provisions.
These were further discussed with the external auditor.
Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to: The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising Those held against inventory: from these significant areas of judgement.
Central UK & US tax provisions: Centrally held, primarily warranty-related: and Workers Compensation.
eXternal auDit The Audit Committees policy in respect of All proposed contracts for services to be inDePenDenCe of the eXternal auDitor services provided by the external auditor is provided by the auditor in excess of 25,000 anD PoliCy on non-auDit serviCes asfollows: require the Audit Committees approval.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the the external auditor is invited to provide In 2012 the Group had seen an increase in the independence of the external auditor, the Audit services which, in its position as auditor, it level of non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte Committee reviewed: must or is best placed to undertake.
This as a result of due diligence work on an aborted a report from the external auditor describing includes formalities relating to borrowings, acquisition.
In 2013 the level of non-audit fees the arrangements that had been made to shareholder and other circulars, various returned to normal, historical, rates.
Fees for identify, report and manage any conflicts of otherregulatory reports and certain work in each category of non-audit workundertaken in interest and to maintain its independence: respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: the year are shown in thetable below: Fees the overall extent of non-audit services the auditor may provide tax compliance and Tax compliance services 000 provided by the external auditor: and advice where it is best suited, but otherwise Other tax advisory services 0.1 such work is put out to tender: and the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public report Total non-audit fees 0.1 on Deloitte.
other services may not be provided where Non-audit fees as a % of total audit fees 19% precluded by ethical standards or where theAudit Committee believes that it wouldcompromise audit independence andobjectivity.
38 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Audit Committee considers that it was The Audit Committee discussed: the audit scheduled.
Upon completion of the 2013 beneficial for the Company to retain Deloitte partner and the team as a whole: the audit internal audit plan, 19 internal audit projects for this non-audit work because of the firms planning approach and its execution: the role reviews had been undertaken to support the expertise in this area and knowledge of the of executive management in the audit process: business in improving the management of risk Group.
The Audit Committee continues to communications by the auditor to the Audit and internal control: the audits were mostly closely monitor the nature and level of such Committee and how it supported the work focused on the Groups operations within non-audit work, in order to balance objectivity of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee theAerospace and Flexonics Divisions, and value for money.
also discussed what insights the auditor had butalsoincluded corporate functions, provided and where it had added value to includingtreasury.
PoliCy on tenDerinG the overall audit process.
The Committee The Committee notes that current FRC The non-executive Directors are actively concluded that the auditor had challenged encouraged to visit the Groups operating transitional guidance and Competition the thinking of the Company and the Audit Commission rules which will come into force businesses unaccompanied by executive Committee on a number of significant issues Directors.
This enables them to meet the from 1 October 2014 indicate that the Company and maintained its independence.
should tender the audit, at the latest, at the local management teams and employees and also undertake site tours to review matters time of the next audit partner rotation currently Feedback about the effectiveness of the audit scheduled for 2019.
The Committee also notes process from the local management teams including production methods, health and safety and the status of internal audit findings.
the latest EU proposals under which it is likely was also considered by the Audit Committee.
that audit firms in the UK will need to rotate In 2013, a total of 37 site visits were undertaken Following completion of the assessment by the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
every twenty years with a tender after ten process, the Audit Committee concluded that years.
The Company may put the audit out to These visits by the non-executive Directors it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the are viewed by the Audit Committee as making tender at any time, however, for the reasons external auditor: as a consequence the Audit noted below it will not be tendered in 2014 and a positive contribution to the internal Committee has recommended to the Board controlframework.
the matter will be reviewed on an annual basis.
that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as auditor Deloitte was appointed the Companys auditor in2014.
In 2013, the Audit Committee also approved in August 2000.
Its performance is reviewed minor amendments to the Group Internal internal auDit annually by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is required to assist the not to put in place a tender process in 2013 and Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to ConClusion 2014, the Committee considered: As a result of its work during the year, the Audit the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the the Deloitte audit partner, Gregory Culshaw, Group internal audit function.
Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference.
At will be rotated off the audit on 25 April 2014 The Groups risk management and internal and the new audit partners five-year term themeeting on 21 February 2014, the Audit control procedures are reviewed by the Groups Committee considered each section of and will end in 2019, in accordance with the Head of Internal Audit, who has direct access FRCs Ethics Standard 3 Revised : theAnnual Report and Accounts as a whole, to the Chairman of the Board and the Audit asproposed by the Company: it reached the change of the Group Finance Director Committee respectively.
The Groups internal aconclusion and advised the Board that it during the year: audit function is a key element of the Groups considered the Annual Report and Accounts the upcoming change in the Chair of the risk management system and it operates 2013 to be fair, balanced and understandable Audit Committee: and independently of the external auditor to and that it provided the information necessary the Audit Committees assessment of enhance the audit services utilised by for shareholders to assess the Companys theexternal auditors effectiveness theCompany.
In 2013, the Audit Committee discussed the ofthe Audit Committee will be available at assessMent of eXternal auDit resourcing of the internal audit function and the the 2014 AGM to answer any questions effeCtiveness Head of Internal Audit highlighted the context about the work of the Committee.
As in prior years, the Audit Committee and background to the audit work undertaken.
aPProval reviewed the effectiveness of the external During the year, the Head of Internal Audit This Report was approved by the Audit auditor, by assessing a range of key areas.
received additional resource from the Groups Committee and signed on its behalf by: In 2013, the Secretary presented the Audit central Finance function, from internal Committee with a framework of questions secondees and from an independent audit firm.
DaviD Best to facilitate a debate and to assist the Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee The Head of Internal Audit provided, to the Committee in assessing the level of auditor 28 February 2014 Audit Committee, reports on the progress effectiveness.
The framework required Audit made on delivering the 2013 internal audit plan, Committee members to consider which areas the status of internal audit recommendations of performance needed future focus by the and a small number of additional risk and auditor, the areas where the auditor was internal audit activities that had also been meeting expectations and those where theauditor was considered to have a specialstrength.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 39
