CorPorate GovernanCe rePort seCtion a: leaDershiP operations to meet the local management The Board is structured under a non-executive teams and discuss any issues that they may Chairman, and currently includes two executive face.
At every Board meeting there are reviews Directors and five independent non-executive of operational, financial and administrative Directors, who were selected for appointment matters.
Health, safety and environmental because of their wide industrial and performance is reviewed by the Board on a commercial experience.
One independent regular basis: social and ethical issues, the non-executive Director is to retire from the agreement of budgets and levels of insurance Board at the close of the 2014 AGM as cover are reviewed whenever appropriate.
previously announced, following a handover There is a procedure by which all Directors can period: the details are given on page 28. obtain independent professional advice at the In addition, there is an Executive Committee, Companys expense in furtherance of their duties, if required.
chaired by the Group Chief Executive, comprising the executive Directors and seCtion B: effeCtiveness ChairMans letter other key executives within the Group.
I am pleased to present the Groups The Companys Nominations Committee Details of the members of the Board leads the process for Board appointments, Corporate Governance Report for 2013 and of the Executive Committee are on behalf of the Board.
This report is and supervises management development summarised on pages 27 to 29. and succession planning.
It also makes intended to provide shareholders with a clear and meaningful explanation of what The Directors consider that an effective Board recommendations to the Board on all new is in place which leads and controls the Group, Board appointments and re-appointments, governance means to the Board and how this guides its decision-making process.
with clear divisions of responsibility between further details of which can be found on the running of the Board and the running of page35.
The Committee, which consists Good corporate governance is taken seriously across the Group: the Board the Groups businesses.
entirely of non-executive Directors, is chaired by Charles Berry, and its composition is shown sets the tone and takes the lead on all The Board is responsible for strategic decisions governance matters.
on page28 its Terms of Reference may be affecting the Group, including the setting of found on the Companys website.
The Board I am pleased to confirm that the Board commercial strategy and the approval of Group considers all non-executive Directors of the budgets and financial statements.
It also reviewed the requirements of the UK Company to be independent, having taken Corporate Governance Code in 2013 and approves significant financial and contractual intoaccount a list of relationships and commitments made by the Group.
The Boards I confirm that the Company complies, circumstances that may appear relevant in and will continue to comply with it.
A more Terms of Reference more fully describe the determining independence, in accordance responsibilities of the Board and may be detailed report is set out on pages 32 to 34. withthe Corporate Governance Code.
found on the Companys website.
Charles Berry When appointing new Directors, the The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities Chairman Nominations Committee is fully cognisant of to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, the benefits of diversity: the Boards policy on and Health, Safety & Environment HSE CorPorate GovernanCe rePort diversity is described on page 30.
The Group Chief Executive, This Corporate Governance Report describes together with the Executive Committee, is Simon Nicholls left the Group at the end of the manner in which the Company has responsible for the implementation of the April 2013 and Derek Harding succeeded him appliedthe Main Principles of the UK decisions made by the Board and for the as Group Finance Director in September 2013.
CorporateGovernance Code the Corporate day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations.
Also in September 2013, Celia Baxter and Giles Governance Code.
Kerr were appointed non-executive Directors The Board meets formally on a regular basis stateMent of CoMPlianCe with the replacing Ian Much, who retired from the Board nine times in 2013 : in addition there were CorPorate GovernanCe CoDe in December 2013, and David Best who will three meetings of the Audit Committee in The Company has been in compliance with step down from the Board at the conclusion 2013, together with six meetings of the the Principles set out in Sections A to E of ofthe AGM in April 2014.
All three Directors Remuneration Committee and three meetings the Corporate Governance Code throughout appointments were made in accordance with of the Nominations Committee.
the Companys formal and rigorous Board full attendance at every Board meeting and appointment procedures described above.
aPPliCation of the PrinCiPles of the Committee of the Board during the year Zygos Partnership was the consultancy firm CorPorate GovernanCe CoDe with the exceptions noted on page 29.
Other appointed to manage the recruitment process The Principles of good corporate governance committees are appointed by the Board to deal for the Group Finance Director and Korn Ferry are detailed in the Corporate Governance Code with treasury matters and specific issues such Whitehead Mann managed the recruitment of under five areas.
These Principles have each as acquisitions and disposals.
the two new non-executive Directors: neither been reviewed by the Directors and are The minutes arising from all Committee recruitment consultancy firm has any connection commented upon as follows: meetings are made available to the Board.
A summary of the Directors Procedures are in place to ensure that all biographies appears on pages 28 and 29.
All Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions Directors receive induction upon joining the taken by the Board are based on the fullest Board and are encouraged to update their available information.
The non-executive knowledge andskills on a regular basis.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Groups 32 SEnior Plc | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION To enable the members of the Board and its An explanation of how the Board assessed As part of its internal control procedures, Committees to discharge their duties the effectiveness of the external audit process, the Company has a Whistle-blowing Policy effectively, the Group Company Secretary the approach taken to reappoint the external that is communicated throughout the Group.
seeks to ensure that all relevant information Auditor and the Companys policy on the This policy provides employees with the is provided to the Directors in a timely manner, tendering of the external audit are to be opportunity to report unethical or illegal in advance of meetings.
found on pages 38 and 39. corporate conduct.
Andy Hamment is the Companys Senior Independent Director, Following a formal review of the Board and its communicating the code succeeding Ian Much, who retired from Committees by Independent Audit Limited in Senior trains its employees on the the Board in December 2013.
His position 2012, the Board undertook a self-assessment requirements of its Code of Business Conduct provides employees with an alternative exercise in 2013, guided by Independent Audit upon induction, educating them what they can channel of communication to resolve issues Limited.
The reviews findings showed that the and cannot do, and how to address any ethical if they have a concern that the Chairman, Board operated effectively throughout the dilemmas they may face.
The Code is re-issued Group Chief Executive or Group Finance period and made some suggestions for its periodically to remind employees of the Director have failed to resolve, or where future development.
The findings will be used required level of conduct.
The Groups ethical such contact is not appropriate.
to help support the development of the Board procedures and Code of Business Conduct as the Group continues with its strategy to theCode were reviewed in the light of the All reports are independently investigated and tracked from inception to resolution and, grow profitability, both organically and by UK Bribery Act 2010 and anti-bribery training acquisition.
Independent Audit Limited has was rolled out across the Group in 2012: where necessary, actions are taken to rectify any weakness in systems that may have been no other connection with the Company.
thistraining is now routinely operated on anongoing basis to new employees and identified.
These actions, and the overall In addition, the Chairman undertook a review integrity of the reporting system, aresubject asarefresher course to existing employees, of the performance of individual Directors: asand when appropriate.
to regular scrutiny by the Audit Committee.
this process involved one-on-one appraisal This process is also available to third parties, interviews.
The results of the evaluation The Board verifies compliance with the Code such as suppliers and customers.
Subject to process are used to improve Board through its internal audit programme, ensuring confidentiality considerations, the outcome performance and to determine the training that employees have received the mandatory of each investigation is provided in sofar needs of the Directors.
Ian Much, in training and its businesses operate with as is possible, to the complainant.
consultation with the Directors, undertook integrity at all times and in compliance with an evaluation of the Chairmans performance, theCode.
Managing external sales agents and concluded that Charles Berry provided The Board recognises the potential bribery operating with integrity effective leadership of the Board.
Based on the and corruption risks posed by the markets in Operating with integrity and in an ethical results of the performance evaluation process, which the Group operates and, in particular, manner builds trust with customers and other the Chairman considers that all members the useofthird-party intermediaries it stakeholders and underpins the Boards of the Board, the Board collectively, and its engages.
Allexternal sales agents working strategic objectives.
Committees, continue to contribute effectively on behalf ofSenior across the globe are being to the running of theCompany.
Human rights required to operate incompliance with the The Group recognises the importance of the Supplier Codeof Business Conduct.
Local In compliance with the Corporate Governance Universal Declaration of Human Rights management conducts a due diligence and Code, all Directors offered themselves for UDHR and adheres to the core principles risk assessment process prior toengaging re-election at the Companys AGM 2013.
At and values defined within it.
The majority of or re-appointing any sales agent and issues the forthcoming AGM, all Directors will again countries in which Senior operates have their them with the Code, ensuring that they offer themselves for election or re-election, own laws banning child labour and promoting understand, acknowledge and accept its with the exception of David Best, who is to human rights.
We monitor the age of our requirements.
In 2013, the Board updated retire from the Board at the conclusion of workforce across the world to ensure the Supplier Code of Business Conduct and theMeeting.
compliance and identify any potential improved the guidance it provided to seCtion C: aCCountaBility succession issues.
the Groups operations, giving detailed The Board determines the nature and extent information on how they should conduct Senior does not restrict any of its employees in of the significant actions necessary to achieve due diligence and risk assess salesagents.
any of the countries in which it operates from its strategic objectives and maintains a sound joining a trade union if they wish to do so.
Managing gifts and hospitality system of internal control.
The Companys Senior also works closely with its suppliers to The Board recognises that gifts and Audit Committee reports to and, for certain ensure that they at least meet internationally hospitality have the potential to create matters, advises the Board of Directors.
recognised minimum requirements a conflict of interest, or the perception of The Audit Committee Report on pages 36 to forworkers welfare and conditions a conflict of interest.
As a result, there is 39 describes the role and activities of the Audit ofemployment.
a Group policy restricting the receiving and Committee, together with the significant giving of giftsand hospitality from, and to, issues that it considered in relation to the 2013 reporting and investigating concerns third parties.
This policy requires that all gifts Financial Statements and its relationship with andwhistle-blowing and hospitality must be recorded.
The Head the internal and external auditor.
The Company encourages Group employees of Internal Audit assesses compliance with todiscuss any ethical concerns that they the Groups gifts and hospitality policy may have with local management.
In addition, during audit visits.
employees areable to report any illegal and unethical  and anonymously within the Group.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 33 CorPorate GovernanCe rePort CONTINUED improvements for 2014 Finance Director undertake a series of meetings The total issued share capital of the Company In 2014, the Board will continue with the with the Companys major shareholders, as at 1 March 2013 the date of the Notice of measures already established, ensuring that following the announcement of the preliminary Meeting for the 2013 AGM, was 415.9 million allemployees and sales agents understand the full-year and interim results, to discuss both the ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code Boards strategic objectives and the detailed of proxy votes received for the AGM 2013 of Business Conduct, as appropriate, and performance of the business.
During 2013, represented approximately 73.73% comply with it, and ensuring that all ethical theCompanys non-executive Chairman also 201275.47% of the issued share capital concerns raised are thoroughly investigated.
attended the preliminary full-year and interim ofthe Company.
The Board will also give increased focus to results announcements made to analysts, in All resolutions put to shareholders at the thisarea, by strengthening internal audits March and August respectively.
No major AGM2013 were passed on a poll.
Details oncompliance with these Codes, ensuring shareholder requested a meeting with any of of the proxy voting received by the Company thatthe training and awareness of employees the non-executive Directors during the year.
for the AGM 2013 resolutions are set out in is fully effective and that the Code has been The Senior Independent Director is also available the table below.
issued and acknowledged by all sales agents.
to attend meetings with major shareholders upon request, so providing an alternative Details of the proxy voting received by the seCtion D: reMuneration channel of communication between the Company for the AGM 2014 resolutions will The Directors Remuneration Report on Company and its shareholders.
be made available on the Companys website pages40 to 55 describes the Boards approach following the close of the meeting.
The Company makes constructive use of itsAGMs to communicate withits private Charles Berry seCtion e: relations with shareholDers shareholders.
A presentation on theCompanys Chairman The Company maintains regular contact annual performance is given following 28 February 2014 with its institutional shareholders and consulted completion of the formal business at each with its major shareholders during 2013 when AGM, and a copy of the presentation, together formulating its Remuneration Policy.
Twice with other investor relations material, is a year, theGroup Chief Executive and Group available on the Companys website.
