STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION noMinations CoMMittee rePort Director meeting local management teams notified the Company of his intention to retire andlearning about the key issues faced by from the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 eachoperation.
AGM, having served as a non-executive Director since May 2007.
The Nominations Committee and the Board has regard to Lord Davies review into Women As their replacements, the Company announced on Boards February 2011 and this has been on 29 July 2013 the appointments of Celia reflected in the appointment of Celia Baxter to Baxter and Giles Kerr as non-executive the Board.
The Board is dedicated to promoting Directors with effect from 2September 2013. diversity and equality throughout the Group, Celia Baxter is the Director of Group HR of regardless of geography or position.
Her early HR career was with Ford Motor Company and KPMG.
She has held The Nominations Committee met three times executive HR positions with Hays plc, in2013 and a particular focus of its efforts Enterprise Oil Plc and Tate & Lyle Plc.
Giles wasthe appointment of a new Group Finance Kerr is Director of Finance of Oxford University.
Director and the recruitment of two new The Nominations Committee is chaired by He is a non-executive director of BTG Plc and myself, and comprised of all the non-executive non-executive Directors: Victrex plc.
Giles held a number of positions Directors.
The Committee attendance record with Amersham PLC within finance and aPPointMent of GrouP finanCeDireCtor isshown on page 29.
Simon Nicholls, Seniors former Group Finance corporate development, culminating in his role as Group Finance Director.
He was formerly The Committee is tasked with administering Director, tendered his resignation in November 2012, having been invited to take up a similar a partner with Arthur Andersen & Co. Senior the process for appointments, debating was supported in the recruitment process for succession planning, regularly reviewing such role at Cobham plc.
It was agreed that he would leave Senior after the conclusion of Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr by Korn Ferry processes and overseeing the composition of Whitehead Mann.
The Nominations Committees full theCompanys AGM held on 26 April 2013.
Acomprehensive recruitment process was Terms of Reference can be found on the I am very pleased to welcome Derek Harding, Companys website.
undertaken with the support of The Zygos Celia Baxter and Giles Kerr to Senior.
Dereks Partnership, basedon a detailed candidate time at Wolseley plc makes him an invaluable The Nominations Committee enlists external .
consultancy firms to assist in the appointment asset to the Group and his range of experience The Committee, after taking into account all will be utilised here at Senior.
Celia brings of Directors to the Board.
The Company provides the appointed consultancy firm with a relevant factors concerning the candidates experience and competencies from her presented, recommended to the Board that executive career in HR which will be of great role description, the required skills and personal attributes to be considered.
The consultancy Derek Harding be appointed as Group Finance value to Senior: Celia replaced Ian Much as Director.
Derek is a Chartered Accountant, Chair of the Remuneration Committee upon firm then filters a list of candidates down to a number of those that it feels meet the skills having qualified with  hisretirement from the Board in December in 1998, and had most recently worked as 2013.
Giles industry and financial experience and attributes required.
The consultancy firm then conducts preliminary interviews with the Finance Director of Wolseley UK, a 1.7bn make him an ideal addition to the Board and a revenue business.
Prior to this, he had suitably skilled Chair of the Audit Committee selected candidates, then referring them to Senior for interview together with a written undertaken a number of roles within Wolseley, to replace David Best, when he retires from including Director of Group Strategy & Investor the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Candidates are interviewed by a number ofmembers of the Relations and Head of Mergers & Acquisitions.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Board, with the final recruitment decision Simon, Ian and David for their guidance and The Board agreed the Committees beingtaken by the Boardas a whole.
recommendation and Derek Harding accepted strong contributions to the Groups success during their time as Directors of Senior.
Following the appointment of a Director, a the offer of employment in March 2013, to commence on 2 September 2013, when he fullinduction programme is provided by the Charles Berry Company.
Within the induction process, areas was appointed to the Board.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee such asfinancial forecasts, Group strategy and aPPointMent of non-eXeCutive DireCtors 28 February 2014 philosophy are explained, together with other Having served as a non-executive Director relevant topics.
Visits to the Groups operations since December 2005, Ian Much retired from are also undertaken: this involves the new the Board in December 2013.
David Best also DereK harDinG Celia BaXter Giles Kerr www.
com Senior plc | AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 35
