Directors Report All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms.
The Board considered the Chairman to be independent on his appointment in 2010.
The Nomination Committee keeps the Boards diversity, balance and independence under review, the details of which can be found on page 80.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the directors are summarised in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 93 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and will do so on an annual basis at each annual general meeting.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Time commitment and external directorships As part of the Board evaluation process, the available time and commitment of each director is considered.
The Board considers that the Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not present any material conflicts of interest to Serco, or compromise the effective management of the Group, and these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by executive directors for external appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 102.
Alastair Lyons is non-executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc and of the Towergate Insurance Group and Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group PLC.
The Board believes that Alastair holds a balanced portfolio of positions which allow him to perform his duties as Chairman appropriately.
Board attendance Board meetings were held on a bi-monthly basis with ad hoc meetings in between as required.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2013 was as follows: Corporate Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility No.
Held 6 3 11 5 0 Alastair Lyons 6 2 3 9 11 5 Christopher Hyman 5 5 n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 6 3 n a n a n a Edward J. Casey, Jr. 1 1 n a n a David Richardson 2 2 1 1 5 5 2 2 n a Angie Risley 6 3 11 5 n a Ralph D. Crosby Jr. 6 n a n a n a n a Malcolm Wyman 6 3 11 5 n a Notes: 1.
The table excludes attendances of directors who attended committee meetings by invitation only.
Where a number is given in brackets against a directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was designed during 2013 but not formally constituted until 2014.
As well as meetings detailed above, 14 additional Board meetings were held during the year, to discuss issues highlighted on the previous pages, principally around the Corporate Renewal Programme.
Performance evaluation This year the Board did not undertake a formal internal review of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual members and did not, therefore, comply with Code B.
The Board last carried out an externally facilitated review with CTMC&A Limited in 2011.
CTMC&A Limited has no connection with Serco other than facilitating Board-level performance evaluations.
In line with the Code, the next external review will take place in 2014.
In addition, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views of both the non-executive and executive directors was carried out during the year.
It is considered that the Chairman continues to provide strong leadership of the Board, and there is a good level of trust between him and the Acting Group Chief Executive.
The Chairmans commitment to contract and site visits, and the value derived from these by the business, was also acknowledged.
His very well informed view of the Groups operations also enables him to provide a strong sounding board for the executive directors.
