Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Leadership Corporate Governance Report Meet the Board Appointment: Alastair was appointed a Non-Executive NPI where he led its demutualisation and acquisition Director of Serco Group plc in March 2010, becoming by AMP, subsequent to which he joined NatWest in Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys AGM 1999 as Director of Corporate Projects.
A chartered in May 2010. accountant with an MA in economics from Trinity College Cambridge, Alastair has been a non-executive director of, successively, the Department for Work & Pensions Responsibilities: Alastair is responsible for the effective and the Department for Transport.
operation of the Board and oversight of corporate governance.
He is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
External appointments: Alastair has been Chairman of Admiral Group plc, the direct motor insurer since 2000.
Experience: In his executive career, Alastair was In 2008 he was appointed deputy Chairman of Bovis Group Finance Director and subsequently Chief Homes Group PLC, one of the UKs leading quoted Executive of the National & Provincial Building Society.
In February 2011, he was appointed When the society was acquired in 1996 by Abbey Chairman of the Towergate Insurance Group.
He retired National, he joined the Abbey National main Board Alastair Lyons CBE 60 in October 2013 from the role of Senior Independent as Managing Director of its Insurance Division.
In 1997 Role: Chairman Director and Audit Chair at the Phoenix Group.
he became Chief Executive of the pensions specialist Appointment: Ed was appointed to the Board of Serco Experience: Ed has been with the Company since 2005, Group plc in October 2013. and until recently was CEO of our Americas division.
He is also part of the Executive Committee.
Under Eds leadership, the Americas business tripled in size Responsibilities: Ed is responsible for the formation with US$1.2bn of revenue and now has over 10,000 and implementation of the Groups global strategy, employees.
Ed was responsible for the integration of as well as the day-to-day management of the business SI International and RCI, two major acquisitions of the operations and our relationships with the City and other Company.
Prior to this, he spent a decade on Wall Street key stakeholders.
He provides leadership to the Group and a decade in the energy sector.
and represents Serco to major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Ed is a member of the Nomination Committee.
External appointments: None Edward J Casey, Jr 55 Role: Acting Group Chief Executive Appointment: Andrew was appointed Group Chief External appointments: Andrew is a non-executive Financial Officer in May 2002. director of Galliford Try plc, one of the UKs leading construction and house-building groups and is Chair of its Audit Committee.
Responsibilities: Andrew is responsible for the Groups financial strategy and management, including reporting, forecasting, treasury, tax and governance.
He shares responsibility with the Chief Executive for our relationship with shareholders and the City.
Experience: Andrew, a chartered accountant, joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He became Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for treasury activities in 1999 Andrew Mark Jenner 45 before joining the Board in 2002.
Role: Group Chief Financial Officer 62 Directors Report Appointment: Mike joined Serco as a Non-Executive External appointments: Mike is currently Chairman of Director in March 2014.
Limited and is a non-executive director of Guinness Peat Group plc.
Mike has also been appointed President Elect of the Chartered Management Responsibilities: Mike is a member of the Corporate Institute CMI where he will succeed the current Responsibility, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Experience: Mike was previously the Group Chief Executive of BAA plc from 2003 to 2006 and Chairman of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs from 2008 to 2012.
Mike was previously the Senior Independent Director at ITV PLC from which he stepped down on 31 December 2013 after eight years on the ITV Board.
Mike Clasper 60 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Ralph joined Serco as a Non-Executive the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Director in June 2011.
Switzerland, and a BSc from the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY.
Experience: Ralph was Chairman of EADS North America until his retirement from that position at the External appointments: Ralph is a non-executive end of December 2011.
He joined EADS in 2002 as director of American Electric Power Co Inc. and Airbus Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EADS North Group, N. V. America and also served as a member of the EADS global Executive Committee until 2010.
Previously, Ralph held numerous positions with Northrop Grumman Corporation, concluding over 20 years of service as President of their Integrated Systems sector.
Prior to his industry career, Ralph served as an Officer in the US Army.
Ralph has an MA in Public Administration Ralph D Crosby, Jr 66 from Harvard, an MA in International Relations from Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Tamara joined Serco as a Non-Executive External appointments: Tamara is Executive Vice Director in March 2014.
President at WPP, where she is Managing Director at Grey Group and CEO, Team P&G.
Responsibilities: Tamara is a member of the Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committees.
Experience: Tamara is currently a Trustee of Save the Children UK.
In 2013 she stepped down after completing nine years as a non-executive director of The Sage Group plc.
Previously, Tamara chaired the Board of Visit London formerly the London Tourist Board from 2001 to 2011.
Tamara Ingram 53 Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Rachel joined Serco as a Non-Executive External appointments: Rachel is currently a nonDirector in March 2014. executive director of HSBC Holdings plc where she is also Chair of the Conduct & Values Committee.
Rachel is also a non-executive director at The Scottish American Responsibilities: Rachel is Chair of the Corporate Investment Company PLC and Heathrow Airport Responsibility Committee and a member of the Holdings Limited.
Experience: Rachel was Deputy Governor of the Bank of England from 2003 to 2008 and has been Permanent Secretary at both the Department for Transport and the Department for Work and Pensions.
Rachel Lomax 68 Role: Non-Executive Director 63 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Leadership Corporate Governance Report Meet the Board Appointment: Angie joined Serco as a Non-Executive with responsibility for developing group-wide people Director in April 2011. practices.
Until May 2007, she was an executive director of Whitbread PLC, having joined the Whitbread Group in 1989.
She has also been a member of the Low Pay Responsibilities: Angie is Chair of the Remuneration Commission, and a non-executive director of Biffa plc Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination and Arriva plc.
External appointments: Angie is Group Human Experience: As Group Human Resources Director of Resources Director of J Sainsbury plc.
J Sainsbury plc, Angie serves on Sainsburys Operating Board and has responsibility for corporate, retail and logistics HR, for 150,000 colleagues.
Previously, Angie was Group Human Resources Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, serving as a member Angie Risley 55 of the Lloyds Banking Group Executive Committee Role: Non-Executive Director Appointment: Malcolm joined Serco as a Non-Executive External appointments: Malcolm, a chartered Director in January 2013. accountant, is a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, a non-executive director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited Responsibilities: Malcolm is Senior Independent and Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited in South Africa.
He is also a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Experience: Malcolm was previously an executive director and the Chief Financial Officer of SABMiller plc, until his retirement in July 2011.
Malcolm joined SAB in 1986 and joined the board as Group Corporate Finance Director in 1990.
He was appointed to the board of SABMiller upon its listing on the London Stock Exchange Malcolm Wyman 67 in 1999.
He was Chief Financial Officer from 2001 until Role: Non-Executive Director his retirement in July 2011.
Gender Diversity Male 6 Female 3 Board Tenure 1 One year 4 2 One and three years 3 3 Three years 2 64
