Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Nomination Committee Report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Before making an appointment, the Committee will evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
The Committee will also make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of any Director or the Company Secretary to the Board and give full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the necessary skills and expertise required on the Board.
Where an external recruitment is appropriate, or to benchmark a suitable internal candidate, the Committee will engage the services of an independent search consultant.
In consultation with the chosen search consultant, specifications are drawn up for the roles and for those personal attributes and experience that are felt to be essential for the effective performance of any new appointment, including for Non-Executive Directors what would be considered appropriate in terms of time commitment.
The Committee is responsible for a number of other matters relating to the composition of the Board and its committees.
In particular it is responsible for: Making a statement in the annual report and accounts about its activities: the process used for appointments: the membership of the Committee: number of Committee meetings held and attendance over the course of the year Ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, Committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference are available online at www.
Membership and meetings The Nomination Committee consists of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The majority of members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee welcomed the appointment of Mike Clasper to the Committee from March 2014 and the broad range of skills and experience he brings to complement the current Committee.
In addition to Mike, the Committee currently comprises Alastair Lyons, who chairs the Committee, Malcolm Wyman, Angie Risley and Ed Casey.
The Committee met five times during 2013.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as outlined above.
In particular, one of the key areas of focus in the 2012 Board effectiveness review was to enhance the profile of the Board through greater diversity.
During the year, the Committee conducted a thorough process of search to identify three additional Non-Executive Directors, in order to complement the existing non-executive members of the Board and these were proposed for appointment and approved by the Board in 2014.
With these appointments, a third of the Board is now female.
The Committee also dealt with succession planning for the role of Group Chief Executive following Christopher Hymans resignation from the Board in October: this completed with the announcement of Rupert Soames appointment in February 2014.
The Committee engaged the Zygos Partnership, an independent external executive search consultancy, for the recruitment of the new Non-Executive Directors, and for the position of Group Chief Executive.
The Board confirms the Zygos Partnership is not connected with the Company in any way.
Diversity The Board strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity, recognises the benefits of having diversity across all areas of the Group and believes this adds to Sercos continued success and advantage.
The Board will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
When considering the optimum composition of the Board, the benefits of diversity of the Board are appropriately reviewed and balanced where possible, including in terms of differences of skills, industry experience, approach, gender, race, age, nationality, background and other contributions that individuals may bring.
The Committee continues to focus on encouraging diversity of thought and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience gained from different geographic and cultural backgrounds enhance the Board.
In addition to Board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation and has stated an aim to achieve appropriate diversity across all elements of Sercos management.
As highlighted earlier in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board has an increased focus on the balance of women in senior executive positions in the organisation, in order to provide opportunities for talented women to become directors, both executive and non-executive.
At present 12.5% of our senior managers are female and the Board will be seeking to increase this over time.
Alastair Lyons CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 3 March 2014 80
