Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Directors Report Audit Committee Report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee continued with the provision of its effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, adequacy of related disclosures, effectiveness of the internal control systems, and overseeing the external and internal audit functions.
A number of reviews into certain contracts with Government departments were undertaken by the Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Justice as mentioned on pages 2 to 4.
The Committee has devoted significant time to monitoring and reviewing the process and outturn of these reviews as well as engaging regularly with management, Internal Audit and the external auditors.
Membership and meetings The Audit Committee consists solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee welcomed the appointments of Mike Clasper and Rachel Lomax to the Committee from March 2014 and the broad range of skills and experience they bring to complement the current Committee.
In addition to Mike and Rachel, the Committee now comprises of Malcolm Wyman, who chairs the Committee, and Angie Risley.
Following the sad and untimely passing of Paul Brooks, a Non-Executive director, in January 2012, membership of the Committee had been reduced below the level required by the Code.
The Board considered it appropriate to pend increasing the membership of the Committee until new Non-Executive directors, with the right balance of skills were appointed to the Board and this has now been addressed.
The Company Chairman, who is himself a qualified accountant and an Audit Committee chairman, attended the majority of meetings in the year and the Board considers that appropriate representation was maintained as a consequence.
Malcolm Wyman, who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2013, took over as Chairman of the Committee on the retirement of David Richardson at the close of the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting and has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups internal audit providers and Deloitte LLP the external auditors attend meetings.
The Committee meets with each of KPMG LLP, the external auditors and the Group Head of Internal Audit separately at least once a year.
The minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for assisting the Board in maintaining the integrity of the Companys financial information and ensuring that the internal controls are robust and defensible, and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment of the Companys external auditors.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including Interim Management Statements, and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein To review, approve and monitor the internal audit programme to ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company, and to assess the effectiveness of the internal audit function To maintain oversight of the external audit activities including discussing with the external auditors, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements To review managements and the internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal controls, and financial reporting To consider the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors, and assess their independence and objectivity, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into account.
Additionally, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee is responsible for overseeing a formal whistle-blowing policy and procedures which apply throughout the Group.
This responsibility will be transferred to the newly formed Corporate Responsibility Committee during 2014.
Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been delegated to the Company Secretary.
Members of the Audit Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting practice on a quarterly basis as part of the Group Chief Financial Officers report to the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis from the external auditors.
A copy of the Committees full terms of reference are available online at www.
75 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Audit Committee Report Principal activities during the year During 2013 the Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the following key matters: Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Company including the Corporate Governance Report and statement of Directors Responsibilities for inclusion in the 2012 and 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2013 Half Year Report and Auditors Report thereon and the Interim Management Statements issued during the year Accounting issues, judgements and information to support the statements including but not limited to going concern, revenue recognition, impairments and exceptional items and disclosure of that information to the auditors The annual audit plan of the external auditors and the 2013 external audit fees Pre-approving any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and ensuring that the provision of non-audit services did not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity Review of the whistle-blowing process and significant reports from that process Evaluation and independence of the Audit Committee and its members The continuing independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit process The 2013 internal audit programme, the proposed 2014 programme and a review of the restructuring of roles and responsibilities of the Internal Audit function Reviewing the internal control environment processes and systems in the light of the outturn of the reviews into certain contracts with Government departments undertaken by the Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Justice The Committees work plan for the year ahead and a review of its achievement against the Committees terms of reference.
At its meeting in February 2014, the Committee reviewed and discussed a comprehensive paper prepared by the Group Chief Financial Officer, which set out the Groups accounting policies and basis of preparation: gave consideration to a number of key accounting judgements associated with financial reporting: set out the Groups financial control procedures: and considered the impact of new accounting developments.
The Audit Committee also reviewed and discussed a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included significant reporting and accounting matters.
The Committee pays particular attention to matters which it considers to be important as a result of their impact on the Group results and remuneration of management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation in their application on the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
In considering the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Committee discussed with the auditors and management all areas of risk it identified during both the audit planning process and year end audit.
In the Committees judgement, these areas are usual for a company of Sercos size and business model.
76 Directors Report The significant issues considered by the Committee during the period were as follows: Significant issues considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee 1 Onerous contracts Provisions for future losses on onerous Documentation regarding the UK clinical health contracts was contracts require an estimate to be made of the future performance presented to, and approved by, the Committee.
This outlined the of the given contract.
This is based on various interdependent key decisions, both operational and financial, and the proposed factors, often outside the direct control of the Group.
Following this report, the Committee agreed the provision made of 17.6m and concluded that due to the material size and nature of this charge, that it be treated as an exceptional item.
Management prepared a separate paper which included support for the 9.1m provision for other onerous contracts made in the year.
The Committee challenged the amounts provided for and whether all contracts requiring provision had been covered.
Following the process outlined above, the Committee was satisfied that the Groups provision for onerous contracts is appropriate.
2 Goodwill and intangibles impairment The judgements in The key assumptions applied in the calculation relate to the relation to goodwill impairment testing relate to the assumptions future performance expectations of the business.
Business plans applied in calculating the value in use of the operating prepared by management supporting the future performance companies being tested for impairment.
expectations used in the calculation were approved by both the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee received a detailed report on the outcome of the impairment review performed by management.
The impairment review was also an area of focus for the external auditors, who reported their findings to the Committee.
The Committee concluded that the intangible assets were not impaired and approved the disclosures in the Financial Statements.
3 Defined benefit pension schemes Changes in the The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit assumptions applied to the calculation of the defined benefit retirement schemes are considered together with the key retirement scheme balances can have a material impact on assumptions underlying their calculation.
In addition, advice is the Financial Statements.
sought from independent actuaries and discussions are held with the external auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions made are appropriate.
4 Exceptional items Certain items of income and expenditure Management prepared documentation in support of the treatment require separation from statutory operating profit, to assist the applied in these Financial Statements, which was reviewed and reader of the Financial Statements to assess the quality of the challenged by the Committee.
This treatment was considered in profits of the Group.
Determining the treatment of such items light of the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council requires a level of judgement.
The Committee also considered detailed reporting from, and discussions with, the external auditors on this matter, and concluded that the items included as exceptional are needed to provide clear and useful information about the trends in the components of the results of the Group.
5 Disposal accounting There were three disposals in the year The Committee considered the accounting for the businesses and the profit loss on disposal for each of these were identified disposed in the year.
This included the judgement made in as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
allocating goodwill to these disposals, associated disposal costs and a review of the disclosure of these items as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
6 Intangible assets capitalised There were additions to The Committee reviewed the material items of intangible spend in intangible assets of 27.8m in the year covering a number of the year and assessed whether these had been correctly judged to software projects and internal development projects, particularly have met the capitalisation criteria of IAS 38.
This involved a review in Global Technology Delivery.
of the expected economic benefits.
77 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Audit Committee Report Internal audit The Audit Committee has oversight responsibility for the Internal Audit function, and reviews and approves the internal audit programme.
It also reviews and assesses all reports issued, together with managements actions to respond to findings and recommendations.
The Group Head of Internal Audit, who functionally reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is invited to and attends the Audit Committee meetings and is also presented with the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit Committee without any members of management present.
During 2013, a strategy for strengthening Internal Audit was developed and presented to the Audit Committee and this led to a number of changes in the Internal Audit function, designed to further enhance the delivery of internal audit and its standing within the Group.
Key changes have been implemented already including the formulation of a single Global Internal Audit team, changing of reporting lines, the rollout of a standard internal audit methodology, approval of an updated internal audit charter which outlines the objectives, authority, scope and responsibilities of the new group internal audit function, and the change in administrative reporting lines of the Group Head of Internal Audit to the Group Chief Executive.
External auditors The Audit Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of external auditors.
Deloitte LLP were re-appointed auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2013.
During the year, the Committee received and reviewed audit plans and reports from the external auditors.
The external auditors also met privately with the Audit Committee without any member of management or the Executive Directors being present.
Non-audit services The Committee has reconfirmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company, and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Committee acknowledges that the Groups external auditors will have a significant understanding of the Groups business and this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Groups advantage in many areas, thus ensuring efficiency in costs to the Group.
They also operate to professional codes of conduct including the management of conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, it considers that the external auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services: a Assistance in tax compliance activities including the preparation of tax returns b Tax advisory services c accountants reports for any Stock Exchange purposes d Ad hoc reporting on historic financial information for any other purpose and ad hoc accounting advisory services e Due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses f Other corporate finance advisory services required in support of potential transactions or bids, including the review of financial models for internal consistency and compliance with Group financial accounting policies g Any other services which are not prohibited and are authorised by the Group Chief Financial Officer or Group Company Secretary.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature, approval of the Committee may be sought for the full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis: where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame, approval is to be sought from the Chairman of the Committee or his nominated alternate.
The Committee may establish fee thresholds for pre-approved services and similar approvals are required for work awarded to accounting firms other than Companys auditors, where fees are expected to exceed pre-approved limits.
The Group Company Secretary is nominated by the Audit Committee as the point of review and approval for the engagement of non-audit services.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte for audit, audit-related and non-audit services for 2013 can be found in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal areas of engagement of Deloitte for audit-related and non-audit services were commissioned in full compliance with the above policy and a formal tender exercise was undertaken.
The services principally related to taxation advice, IT advisory work and due diligence and other corporate finance advisory services.
78 Directors Report Effectiveness of external auditors During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
An assessment of the process was undertaken by each member of the Committee with input received from management associated with the audits undertaken Group Finance and Divisional Finance Directors.
The assessment covered all aspects of the audit service provided by the audit firm.
The Committee also obtained a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures and consideration of audit firms annual transparency reports.
Audit tendering The Audit Committee has noted the changes to the Code, the recent findings of the Competition Commission and the Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council, each in the context of the tendering by audit firms for the external audit contract at least every ten years.
The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Richard Knights, who was appointed to the role at the beginning of 2011.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor.
Following an assessment of the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2014 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted by the Board and will be proposed to shareholders.
The Committee will consider a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012.
It will comply with the Competition Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which is expected to come into effect from 1 October 2014.
Under the transitional arrangements, the Committee expects a formal tender process to be held no later than two years from the end of the current audit engagement partner rotation period.
As partner rotation is due in the year ended 31 December 2015, a tender process is expected to commence no later than 2016.
The Committee notes and continues to monitor the further developments from the EU Commission in respect of audit regulations that will need to be reflected in UK law in the next few years.
These rules will require listed companies to change auditors after ten years, with the possibility of keeping the same firm for an additional ten years if the work has been put out to tender.
Malcolm Wyman Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 March 2014 79
