48 Governance report Group Authorisation Arrangements The way we are structured The Group Authorisation Arrangements Board membership GAA are the framework through which the During the year under review the board has comprised your non-executive Chairman, Severn Trent Plc board authorises the right five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
Photographs of people, at the right level, to take important decisions as we manage legal, financial and the members of the board, together with their biographies and a description of the administrative issues throughout the group.
complementary skills and wealth of experience that they bring to bear, can be found The GAA are designed to facilitate good on pages 44 and 45. control, efficient decision making and We believe this unitary board brings an appropriate balance of innovation, experience, demonstrable compliance.
independence and challenge to ensure effective decision making.
The ow of authority is from the Severn Trent Plc board to the Chief Executive and In accordance with the Governance Code, all the directors will retire at this years AGM the Severn Trent Executive Committee.
and submit themselves for reappointment by the shareholders.
Inrespect of certain issues, the delegated Details of our policy on diversity in the boardroom are provided in the Nominations authority is subject to an obligation to work with specialist business services areas Committee report on pages 52 and 53. suchas Tax, Treasury, Group Finance Role of the Chairman andCompany Secretariat that provide The role of Andrew Duff, your Chairman, is to lead a unitary board, facilitating the additional expertise and a group wide perspective.
contribution of its members at its meetings, and to be responsible for ensuring that the principles and processes of the board are maintained in line with the board governance framework, which can be found on our website www.
Agendas for board meetings are agreed by the Chairman in consultation with the ChiefExecutive and Company Secretary, although any director may request that an item be added to the agenda.
The Chairman has authority to act and speak for the board between its meetings, including engaging with the Chief Executive.
He reports tothe board and committee chairmen as appropriate on decisions and actions taken between meetings of the board.
He also meets with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present, to consider the performance of the executivedirectors and to provide feedback.
Senior independent non-executive director Governance of subsidiaries The membership of the board of the Richard Davey is your senior independent non-executive director.
He chairs listedcompany, Severn Trent Plc, is the theRemuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nominations sameas that of its regulated subsidiary, Committees.
The board has agreed that Richard will act as Chairman of the board Severn Trent Water Limited.
This structure inthe event that the Chairman is unable to do so for any reason.
was implemented in 2007 when it was Non-executive directors decidedto integrate the management ofthe companies to gain greater Your non-executive directors are appointed to the board to contribute their transparency and insight of Severn individualexternal expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group.
TrentWater by the Plc board.
Theircompetences include corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, Following his appointment as CEO of customer care, property, environmental and technology matters, general SevernTrent Services in January 2012, management and supply chain management.
They also provide independent Martin Kane became a non-executive challenge and rigour in the boards deliberations and are encouraged to make director of Severn Trent Water Limited.
independent assessments of the groups competencies.
The non-executive The two companies operate as distinct directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, meet without the legalentities.
The boards comply with theSevern Trent Plc Board Governance Chairman atleast once a year for them to appraise the Chairmans performance.
document and the Severn Trent Water Thenon-executive directors and the Chairman also meet without the executive Limited Matters Reserved to the board.
directors present at least once a year.
Theyare assisted through the management Your board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and considers them of separate agendas, meetings and all to be independent in character and judgement as dened by the Governance Code.
minutesby Company Secretariat and advised in their meetings by the Company Chief Executive Secretary where appropriate.
Responsibility has been delegated to the Chief Executive, Tony Wray, to achieve Subsidiary company boards are required to thecompanys strategy.
He is empowered to take all decisions and actions that be managed scrupulously with respect to furtherthecompanys strategy and which in his judgement are reasonable, legal, scal and administrative matters.
Inparticular, the relationships between havingregard tothe Chief Executive limits set out in the companys GAA.
The Severn Trent Water Limited and our other non-executive directors, led by the Chairman, appraise hisperformance annually.
businesses such as Severn Trent Services Executive directors aremonitored and controlled to ensure that we comply with our obligations on arms The executive directors support the Chief Executive in driving the implementation of length transactions between them.
strategy forward in Severn Trent.
They are committed to doing this in a responsible way which takes account of our commitment to long term sustainable and responsible stewardship of the business, the environment, our customers and the communities in which we live and work.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Governance Role of the Company Secretary Reporting obligations All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, As a public listed company, the company is BronaghKennedy, and the Company Secretariat team.
Bronagh is responsible for required to comply with a range of reporting obligations set out by law and regulation.
ensuring that the board operates in accordance with the governance framework it has The company is committed to the adopted and that there are effective information ows to the board and its promotion of investor confidence by taking committees and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
steps within its power to ensure that trade The appointment and resignation of the Company Secretary is a matter for inits securities takes place in an efficient consideration by the board as a whole.
The company recognises the importance of Terms and conditions of appointment effective communication as a key part of We have made the terms and conditions of appointment of the directors available for building shareholder value and that, to inspection by any person at the companys registered ofce during normal business prosper and achieve growth, it must earn hours.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The letters of appointment of the the trust of security holders, employees, directors can also be seen on our website www.
customers, suppliers and communities, bybeing open in its communications and Board processes consistently delivering on its commitments.
We have processes in place regarding: The company announces its results on a halfyearly basis and complies with the F the boards tasks and activities: requirement to make interim management F the matters specically reserved for the boards decision making, the authority statements.
delegated to the Chief Executive, the accountability of the Chief Executive for that authority, and guidance on managing the relationship between the board and theChief Executive: and F the boundaries on Chief Executive action Chief Executive limits.
The board has reserved the following for its own consideration: The Chief Executive has established a F the appointment of the Chief Executive, directors, the Company Secretary and the Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Director of Internal Audit: Finance Director, with specic responsibilities F the strategy and budgets of the company: for the delivery of the interim and year end reporting processes.
The Disclosure F the GAA which set out the groups delegated approval limits: Committee oversees the delivery of an F decisions regarding the company and its subsidiaries required to be made by the integrated plan incorporating all elements of companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation: and the year end reporting process, namely the F the approval or adoption of documents including the publication of reports and groups preliminaryresults announcement statements to shareholders, required to be made by the board by the companys and report and accounts, the companys GAA, constitutional documents, statute or external regulation.
AGM, the statutory and regulatory accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited, theAnnual Board meetings Regulatory Compliance Statement and the We have regular scheduled meetings of the board and of its permanent committees Annual Regulatory Performance Report.
throughout the year and any additional meetings and ad hoc committee meetings are convened when required.
Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous board meeting and performance reports, are circulated in advance of each meeting.
There is an agreed procedure in place which allows directors to take independent How the board has spent its time professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have access to the Focus of formal board meetings advice and services of the Company Secretary.
If a director has a concern over any 2% unresolved matter they may require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
6% In addition to formal board meetings, the board attended a full day strategy session this year, where the board and executive management team together considered the 29% 19% value proposition for Severn Trent and the potential areas of future value creation across the business.
During the financial year, six ad hoc committee meetings of the board were convened to consider such matters as Severn Trent Plcs preliminary and interim results and interim management statements.
21% 23% Board attendance in 2012 13 Andrew Duff 7 7 Martin Lamb 7 7 Governance Finance Tony Ballance 7 7 Michael McKeon 7 7 Performance review Regulatory issues Dr Bernard Bulkin 7 7 Baroness Noakes 7 7 Strategy Other Richard Davey 7 7 Andy Smith 7 7 Gordon Fryett 7 7 Tony Wray 7 7 Martin Kane 7 7 50 Governance Board committees Institutional shareholders and analysts We have established committees of the board to deal with specic issues or approvals, The board recognises the importance of as and when necessary.
representing and promoting the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to The four permanent committees of the board assist in the execution of its shareholders for the performance and responsibilities and the board has delegated some of its responsibilities to those activities of the company.
The committees assist the board by fullling their roles and Presentations are made to shareholders and responsibilities, focusing on their specic activities, reporting to the board on decisions analysts following the release of the interim and actions taken, and making any necessary recommendations.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly meet The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees shareholders during the year.
The Chairman comply with the provisions of the Governance Code, except as reported on page 47, and the senior independent non-executive and are available for inspection, together with the terms of reference of the director have also met shareholders  Committee, onourwebsite www.
com or separately from executive directors and are maybeobtained on request from the Company Secretary.
available to meet shareholders if required.
The board receives written feedback The effectiveness of each of the committees has been reviewed during the year as following meetings with institutional part of the internal board review and the committees have also considered their terms shareholders and monitors shareholder of reference during the year.
activity on a quarterly basis at its meetings.
Reports from the Chairmen of these committees are set out on pages 52 to 70 of During the year we have undertaken an thisreport.
investor audit which sets out to ascertain both bondholders and shareholders views of us as a company, our strategy, The way we choose to behave performance, and effectiveness of our communications.
Italso aims to determine Code of Conduct: Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way our standing relative to our peers and to Every day Severn Trent employees have to make choices about what they do and how theequity and debt markets as a whole.
Most of the time it is clear what the right thing to do is, whether it is about Theresults will be available early in the 2013 14 financial year.
doing what is safe, doing the right thing for customers, doing what is right ethically and indeed what is right legally.
However, sometimes it is not so clear.
Doing the right thing The Severn Trent way details the principles we work by.
This is our Code of Conduct and explains who we are, what we stand for and how we work: it also tells our customers and business partners that they can rely on us.
These principles apply to everyone in Severn Trents businesses, no matter where in the world they are based.
They provide a common andconsistent framework for responsible business practices and set out the standards we need to follow in our day to day activities.
During the year we have continued to roll out the Code of Conduct across the group to make sure that everyone in the business understands what it is all about and upholds our ethical standards.
All employees are provided with a copy in their local language as part of their induction.
Training sessions are also available and all teams have been encouraged to discuss it.
Policies The Code of Conduct is supported by 15 group policies and our behaviours model.
Further details of these can be found on our website www.
Duringthe year we have completed the annual review of the policies to ensure they are t for purpose.
In particular the Whistleblowing Policy has been refreshed and new guidance on the process has been issued to assist those who may need to deal with whistleblowing concerns.
New posters advertising the whistleblowing procedures havealso been distributed throughout the business.
Conicts of interests The board has a full process in place to authorise situational conicts in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
At every board meeting there is a standing agenda item at the beginning of the meeting to consider and discuss whether any potential conicts exist.
If it does then the relevant director does not participate in the discussion on that item.
An annual review of conicts is carried out and is incorporated into the year end process of verifying directors interests.
Half yearly reports are also made to the boardofall directors conicts and directors are reminded from time to time of theirobligations.
Interests No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance with the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Governance Shareholder engagement Retail shareholder engagement strategy Annual General Meeting The board has an active shareholder engagement strategy, the main elements The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, ofwhich are set out below.
BroadStreet, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11am on Wednesday 17 July 2013.
The annual report and accounts is the Presentations are made on the groups activities, performance during the year and principal means of communicating with anoperationally focused presentation prior to the formal business of the meeting.
The group has adopted TheChairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Nominations e-communications as an alternative Committees, together with all other directors, attend the AGM.
method of sending company information.
InMarch 2012 shareholders were The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to feedback to the company on re-consulted as to their preferred method performance, management and the way we work in a very direct fashion, through ofreceiving company communications.
Shareholders may also meet informally with directors and Following the consultation, 54,856 seniormanagement before and after the meeting and ask formal questions shareholders 82% receive conrmation duringthe meeting.
that the annual report is available to view online, whilst 11,829 shareholders 18% The board encourages shareholders to attend the companys AGM and to exercise continue to receive a hard copy.
The notice of meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders Our website www.
com at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on contains an archive of annual reports each substantially separate issue.
The poll results from the 2013 AGM will be made together with other information relevant available on our website after the meeting.
This includes comprehensive share price information, financial results, company news and financial calendars.
The way we ensure our effectiveness The company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details of the Induction DRIP are available on our website and On joining the board, a directors induction needs are evaluated and then they are thewebsite of Equiniti, our registrar.
provided with a comprehensive and personalised induction pack which includes information on the group structure, the regulatory framework of the operating businesses within the group, strategic plans, financial reports and business plans andinformation on our governance framework.
Meetings are arranged with members of the executive management team and with external advisers who provide support to the relevant board committees on which thedirectors may serve.
Visits to operational and ofce sites across the group and management presentations are also arranged for directors joining the board and Shareholder networking programme subsequently throughout the year.
The aim of the programme is to offer retail Continuing professional development shareholders the opportunity to learn more about the company, through site visits and The directors received updates throughout the year on matters such as changes to talking to staff.
The directors also have access to professional As part of our Shareholder Networking development provided by external bodies and our advisers.
Programme, participants in October 2012 had Continuing professional development requirements were considered as part of a choice to visit either a waste water or clean water site.
These were hosted by Simon Cocks, theboard effectiveness review referred to below.
No additional requirements Waste Water Services Director and Andy wereidentied.
Smith, Director of Water Services.
Nineteen Performance and effectiveness reviews participants were taken to our Minworth Sewage Treatment Works Birmingham for An independent external review of the effectiveness of the board is conducted atour and presentation on renewable energy.
The last external review was carried out in November 2011.
Twenty-one participants were taken to InNovember2012, the board commenced an internal review of its effectiveness and Campion Hills Water Treatment Works Royal the effectiveness of its key committees.
The review was led by the Chairman, assisted Leamington Spa for a tour then on to Severn by the Company Secretary and was in the form of a series of condential interviews Trent Water Finham for a demonstration of between each director, the Company Secretary and the Chairman.
making a connection to a live water main and a display of materials used in the distribution The boards strengths include a high quality of debate, relevant and complementary network.
This was followed by both groups collective skills and talents and an effective use of time.
The Audit, Corporate visiting our operating centre in Coventry.
Responsibility and Remuneration Committees were strong, effective and continued Positive feedback was given on the toimprove during the year.
organisation and content with strong support for the company continuing the programme, The review also considered progress made in the areas identied as requiring further both from shareholders and employees who development in the independent external review, carried out in the previous financial enjoyed the interest shown in their work.
It concluded that good progress had been made with respect to the prioritisation of strategic matters on board agendas.
To become even more effective, the most recent board review identied the need to continue to allocate time for consideration of strategic matters, improve comparative peer performance analysis and, with regard to leadership and succession planning, continue to focus on development of management below the Executive Committee level.
