52 Nominations Committee This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the company.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning and the election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The members of the Committee in 2012 13 were the non-executive directors of the board and the Chief Executive, Tony Wray.
Andrew Duff During the year the Committee considered the composition of the board, the boards Chairman of the Nominations Committee diversity policy, the boards effectiveness review and the succession plan for the Chief Executive.
Italso reviewed the strength and depth of talent and succession planning below Executive Committee level.
The main purpose of the Committee is to In accordance with the requirements of the Governance Code, all members of the assist the board by keeping the composition of the board under review and conducting a board will seek re-election at the AGM in July 2013.
In March 2013 the Committee rigorous and transparent process when formally reviewed the performance, contribution and commitment of each of the making or renewing appointments of directors retiring at this years AGM and seeking reappointment, and supported and directors to the board.
It also advises the recommended their reappointment to the board.
The Committee has confirmed that board on issues of directors conicts of each director continues to perform well both on an individual and collective basis, interest and independence.
The full terms of making a valuable contribution to the boards deliberations and demonstrating reference for the Committee can be found on our website www.
com and are commitment to the long term interests of the company.
also available from the Company Secretary.
Nominations Committee attendancein2012 13 Dr Bernard Bulkin 2 2 Martin Lamb 2 2 Richard Davey 2 2 Baroness Noakes 2 2 Andrew Duff 2 2 Tony Wray 2 2 Gordon Fryett 2 2 Each Committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum ofve members were in attendance, with the majority being independent, non-executive directors.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Governance Nominations Committee Diversity Succession planning Further to the publication of the Davies Report, Women on Boards, in February 2011, When considering new appointments to the boards of FTSE 350 companies have been encouraged to promote greater female board, the Committee oversees the representation on corporate boards.
Guidance from the Financial Reporting Council has preparation of a role specication that is provided to an independent recruitment also highlighted the importance of greater diversity of psychological prole around the organisation retained to conduct a global board table.
In addition to the specic skills, Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a knowledge and experience deemed successful business.
Severn Trent Plc shares the aspiration of the Davies Report to necessary, the specication contains criteria promote greater female representation on listed company boards.
such as: F a proven track record of creating As and when board appointment opportunities arise, we will make full use of the shareholder value: procedures recommended by the Davies Report and by the Governance Code to F unquestioned integrity and a diversity of support this aspiration.
All board appointments will be based on merit and must be psychological mindset: inthe interests of all stakeholders.
F a commitment to the highest standards of As at 31 March 2013 and at the date of this report, we had one female member governance: onour board of 11 representing 9% and three female members out of 11 on the F having the required time available to Executive Committee representing 27%.
The total workforce gender split is 30% devote to the job: female and 70% male.
F strategic mindset, an awareness of market As we reported last year, we have conducted gender diversity research with women leadership, outstanding monitoring skills: employees in Severn Trent Water to understand what is important to them in F a preparedness to question, challenge and developing careers at Severn Trent.
The research was designed so that the insights openly assess: and provided would help us to improve policies and practices in developing women in F an independent point of view.
We plan to use the same methodology to explore ethnic diversity in the future, sowe can gain more insights into this aspect of our workforce composition and the findings will be examined by our Diversity Working Group.
Gender diversity Board Executive Committee Total workforce 9% 27% 30% 70% 91% 73% Male Female Andrew Duff Chairman of the Nominations Committee
