Corporate governance report Having been a member of the Board since UponSusans appointment as Chairman 2003, serving as Chairman since 2008, of the Board, she will be succeeded theBoard and I agreed in 2013 that it byDominic as Chairman of the Audit, wastimely to consider my succession.
In addition, Following a rigorous selection process, Graham Hetherington will step down as theBoard decided in January that Susan Chief Financial Officer on March 1, 2014, Kilsby would succeed me as Chairman tobe succeeded on an interim basis by ofthe Board and that this would take James Bowling, Shires Group Financial effectfrom the conclusion ofShires 2014 Controller.
A search for Grahams Annual General Meeting.
Iamdelighted successor is currently underway.
Having worked with The annual Board performance evaluation Susan on the Board over the past few was conducted internally in 2013 and years, I believe she is the ideal Chairman concluded that the individual members for Shire as the Company embarksupon ofthe Board remain effective in their anew era of growth.
abilityto undertake their respective roles.
As part of our continued review of Disclosure of the process and outcomes thecomposition of the Board and its can be found on page 57 of this report.
committees, a number of other changes Matthew Emmens In leaving the Company I am pleased to have also been effected.
Dominic Chairman see that the Board and its committees Blakemore was appointed as a Nonhave the appropriate balance of skills Executive Director and member of the andexperience to lead Shire through Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee itsnext phase of growth.
The refreshed witheffect from January 1, 2014.
Dominic governance structure brought about brings to the Board, amongst other things, Dear Shareholder through the implementation of the One his strategic and financial experience.
Shire operating model sees Shire well Shires governance structure Detail on the selection process is outlined placed to achieve continued enhanced on page 62 of this report.
Susan Kilsby iscentral to theoperation of value for shareholders and other succeeded David Kappler as Chairman of theBoard and the wider Group, stakeholders.
the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee and is therefore critical to the and Dr. David Ginsburg was appointed as Chairman of the Science & Technology delivery of sustainable growth Committee, with effect from May 2, 2013. for our shareholders and other Susan Kilsby was also appointed as a stakeholders.
This report member of the Nomination Committee outlines our approach to with effect from February 1, 2014. governance and Shires application of the main principles outlined inthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
COM 54 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information UK Corporate Governance Code Division of responsibilities This report seeks to demonstrate how The Board comprises the Chairman, Key activities themain principles of the UK Corporate eightother Non-Executive Directors, The principal activities of the Board Governance Code 2012 the Governance theChief Executive Officer and the Chief during the year were: Code were applied throughout the Financial Officer.
The Executive Directors financial year ended December 31, 2013. together with the Executive Committee Strategy The Board is of the opinion that, during areresponsible for business operations.
Consideration and approval of thisperiod, the Company complied with The Non-Executive Directors are charged the refined corporate strategy the provisions of the Governance Code.
with exercising independent judgment Review and approval of the Published by theFinancial Reporting inBoard deliberations and ensuring One Shire reorganization, Council, the Governance Code is theeffective performance by senior including the simplification of publiclyavailable atwww.
the Company into business Leadership The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, units supported by a single Role of the Board SeniorIndependent Director and Chief R&D organization and unified The principal purpose of the Board is Executive Officer have distinctly different corporate functions toprovide leadership to the Company functions which are defined in writing Review of material M&A and inamanner that promotes its success, andhave been approved by the Board.
in-licensing transactions thereby maximizing value for stakeholders These are summarised as follows: including the approval of the including shareholders.
The Board is acquisition of ViroPharma Chairman responsible for determining the Groups As Chairman it is Matthew Emmens strategy, as well as overseeing its Governance primary responsibility to provide implementation by management.
In Consideration of feedback leadership to the Board: ensuring that it addition, the Board has oversight of all frominvestors and investor operates effectively.
This is achieved in material matters impacting the Company sentiment part through his promotion of a culture and its operations including its key policies, Review and approval of that fosters open and robust debate, material financial matters, acquisitions, quarterly earnings releases andthat in turn contributes to positive therisks that the Company faces and the andkey financial reports engagement and constructive dialog in actions taken to mitigate these, and meetings.
Matthew is also responsible Review and approval of succession planning.
for ensuring effective communications thebudget Chairmans succession between the Board and shareholders.
Review and approval of Given that Matthew Emmens has been Susan Kilsby will succeed Matthew as policiesincluding updated amember of Shires Board since 2003, Chairman on April 29, 2014.
Code of Ethics and Securities holding the position of Chairman since Dealing Policy Deputy Chairman 2008, both he and the Board agreed in As Deputy Chairman David Kappler is Consideration of Health, Safety 2013 that it was timely to consider the responsible forsupporting, and & Environment update skillsand experience that would be sought deputising for, theChairman as required.
in his successor as Chairman.
A special Risk & internal controls committee of the Board, chaired by the Review of the Companys Senior Independent Director Senior Independent Non-Executive material risks and internal As Senior Independent Director it is Director, was established to progress this.
controls David Kapplers responsibility to provide In determining the skills and experience a sounding board for the Chairman and sought, the special committee took Succession planning to serve as a trusted intermediary for the account of, amongst other things, the Supporting the CEO other Directors.
He is also responsible for Companys strategy, its operations and transitionwith Flemming leading meetings of the Non-Executive thediversity and expertise currently on Ornskov becoming CEO Directors in the absence of the theBoard.
A process was followed which onApril 30, 2013 Chairman, and for consulting with included meetings with interested existing shareholders when communication with Chairman succession planning Board members and external candidates, the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer and was assisted by Odgers Berndtson Talent assessment would be inappropriate.
Following consideration of the candidates, the Chief Executive Officer Boarddecided in January that Susan Flemming Ornskovs principal Kilsby would be appointed as Matthew responsibility as Chief Executive Officer Emmens successor and that this would is to manage Shires day-to-day business.
take effect from the conclusion of the He is accountable to the Board for the Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2014. development of the Company and its Ms Kilsby was also appointed to the operations: having due regard for Nomination Committee on February 1, objectives, strategy and policies set 2014.
Upon becoming Chairman of forthby the Board and its committees.
theCompany she will step down as Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Full details of the aforementioned roles RiskCommittee, to be succeeded by andresponsibilities can be found on the Mr. Blakemore.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 55 Corporate governance report continued Board operation Board effectiveness During the year the Board met regularly in order to discharge its duties.
For the most Effective leadership is integral to the part, Board meetings were scheduled well in advance, however, two ad hoc meetings execution of the Companys strategy and were held during the year in order to address then-prevailing circumstances.
Intotal, therefore to the fulfillment of its objectives.
eight meetings were held with those scheduled taking place over a two day period: The Board is committed to providing the exceptions being those held in June and October which were held over one and Company with the highest caliber of threedays respectively.
governance and in doing so promoting theCompanys success for the benefit Meeting ofall stakeholders.
1 2 Board member Date of appointment attendance 3 Matthew Emmens March 12, 2003 8 8 Composition and diversity 4 During the year the Board reviewed the Susan Kilsby Sept 1, 2011 8 8 5 independence of the Non-Executive Flemming Ornskov Jan 2, 2013 8 8 6 Directors, other than the Chairman, in Graham Hetherington July 1, 2008 8 8 accordance with the factors set forth for 7 David Kappler April 5, 2004 7 8 consideration in the Governance Code William Burns March 15, 2010 8 8 anddetermined that each continued to Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 8 8 beindependent.
The Governance Code David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 8 8 suggests that a length of service of more Anne Minto June 16, 2010 8 8 than nine years is relevant to the 8 David Stout Oct 31, 2009 7 8 determination of a Directors independence.
9 Angus Russell Dec 13, 1999 April 30, 2013 1 1 Therefore, in considering the independence of Mr. Kappler, the Board gave particular Note: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Board members were eligible to attend.
regard to the fact that at the time of the 1 Dominic Blakemore was appointed as a member of the Board on January 1, 2014.
Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2 There were six scheduled and two ad hoc Board meetings held during the year.
2014 he will have served as a member of the 3 Matthew Emmens served as Shires Chief Executive Officer from March 12, 2003 until June 18, 2008 prior Board for a period of ten years.
Despite his tohis appointment as Chairman.
Matthew is to step down as Chairman on April 29, 2014.
4 Susan Kilsby is to be appointed Chairman on April 29, 2014. length oftenure, the Board concluded that 5 Flemming Ornskov served as Chief Executive Officer Designate prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Mr. Kappler remained independent in Officer on April 30, 2013. character and judgment: demonstrating 6 Graham Hetherington is to step down as Chief Financial Officer on March 1, 2014. continued effective performance and 7 As agreed in advance by the Board, David Kappler was absent from one scheduled Board meeting as commitment to his role.
Details of the Board aresult of external commitments.
8 performance evaluation, which included David Stout was absent from one ad hoc Board meeting which, at short notice, was timed to facilitate maximum possible Board attendance.
theconsideration of Non-Executive Director 9 Angus Russell stood down as Chief Executive Officer on April 30, 2013. independence, areavailable on page 57.
Inaddition, the Board regards each of its Only members of the Board have bythe Board as circumstances required.
members as possessing the skills, entitlement to attend Board meetings, The Board Reserve Powers are available knowledge and experience necessary for however, during the year, additional on the Companys website.
itto function effectively, with its composition individuals attended by invitation.
The commensurate to the complexity of the The agenda for Board meetings is General Counsel and Company Secretary business.
Board members biographical determined by the Chairman in collaboration attended all meetings of the Board, with information can be found on pages 52 with the Chief Executive Officer and the regular additional attendees including the and53.
TheChairman also Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the hasthe responsibility ofproviding all The Board recognizes the inherent value of Head of Business Development.
External necessary materials to eachof the Directors, diversity at all levels within the Group and professional advisors also attended in respect of which he is supported by the is therefore committed to its furtherance.
At the Company Secretary and other members In2012 Shires Board Diversity Policy was conclusion of each Board meeting the ofmanagement.
At Board meetings the implemented which acknowledges that Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman encourages debate with a view to theCompany, its shareholders and other Executive Directors being present, following achieving resolution by consensus, however, stakeholders are best served by a Board which a meeting of the Non-Executive decisions are taken by majority vote when diverse in skill, experience and background Directors was held in the absence of the this is unable to be achieved, with the including gender.
The principles of the Chairman.
Typically, matters considered Chairman having acasting vote in the policy are taken into consideration bythe Board were those reserved for caseof an equality ofvotes.
duringboth the contemplation of new theirjudgment and decision, as defined appointments and the annual evaluation of inthe Board Reserve Powers, although the Boards performance, with its  matters were considered 56 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information endorsing values reflected in recruitment compete or has a significant business professional advice necessary to the policies in effect throughout the Group.
In addition, fulfillment of their duties and responsibilities Additional disclosure relating to diversity Directors are required to disclose the nature from across the business, from the within Shire is made on page 21. and extent of any interest they have, whether Company Secretary, orfrom independent direct or indirect, in any transaction entered sources at the Companys expense.
In Appointments into, or proposed to be entered into, by the addition, the Chairman, supported by the The Board may appoint any individual as Group which conflicts, or may conflict, with Company Secretary, ensures that effective aDirector either to fill a vacancy or as an the Groups interests.
Such disclosures are channels of communication exist between additional member of the Board.
The made at the first Board meeting at which the the Board, its committees and the process for new appointments is typically transaction is considered after the Director Companys senior management, and that headed by the Nomination Committee concerned becomes aware of the conflict of Directors are kept up-to-date of matters procedural details are available on page 62 interest, or potential conflict, following which pertaining to the Companys governance.
which ultimately makes a recommendation the Director abstains from all associated to the Board.
Appointments may be made Board performance evaluation discussion and voting.
by the Board at any time subject to election 2012 progress and annual re-election by the Companys Induction and development The 2012 externally facilitated evaluation shareholders.
With the exception of Matthew Upon appointment to the Board, all identified two key action points in terms of Emmens and Graham Hetherington, all of Directors undergo a formal induction enhancing the Boards effectiveness.
theDirectors are seeking either election or program tailored to their individual skills, Progress made against these items during re-election at the Annual General Meeting knowledge and experience.
The purpose the 2013 financial year is as follows: tobe held on April 29, 2014, at which ofsuch a program is to facilitate each Increased time for discussion concerning Non-Executive Directors terms of Directors familiarisation with the Companys feedback from Board committees appointment and Executive Directors business and strategy, as well as their own At Board meetings more time has been service contracts will be made available duties and responsibilities.
Prior to his allowed to enable discussion around forinspection by shareholders.
TheBoard appointment as Chief Executive Officer, committee feedback.
Committee confirms that, during the year, each of the Flemming Ornskov held the position of Chairmen have increased the level of detail Directors seeking re-election underwent Chief Executive Officer Designate for a they include in their reports to the Board aperformance evaluation with each period of four months.
During this time summarising the material issues evidencing continued effective hebecame familiar with the Company, considered at committee meetings.
performanceand commitment to their itspeople, the risks it faces and its role.
Further details relating to the Board opportunities through meeting Board Enhanced Board connectivity between performance evaluation can be found below.
members and investors, through visiting meetings many of the Companys sites andmeeting There has been an increase in the level Commitment employees from across thebusiness.
ofinformal Board member contact Prior to appointment, each Non-Executive between meetings, with Board members Director is required to disclose to the In addition to undergoing an initial also invited to attend meetings of some Board their other significant commitments induction, on an annual basis each committees of which they are not so as to enable an assessment of their Directordiscusses with the Chairman members.
In addition, the Board is capacity to effectively discharge their theirindividual development requirements provided with a formal operational anticipated duties and responsibilities.
with a view to ensuring that their skills, updatefrom the Chief Executive Officer TheBoard in turn is informed by each knowledge and experience are regularly ona monthly basis.
Non-Executive Director of any changes refreshed, and that their familiarity with totheir other significant commitments.
2013 procedure, conclusions and Each Non-Executive Director has actionpoints Information and support undertaken that they are able to meet The 2013 Board performance evaluation The Chairman, in collaboration with the thetime commitment expected of them, was carried out internally, led by the Company Secretary and the Executive which was duly communicated by the Chairman with the support of the Company Directors, is responsible for ensuring that Board prior to appointment.
As part of Secretary, and covered the performance of Board members are provided at all times itsperformance evaluation the Board the Board and of its members.
In addition, with the information necessary for them determined that each of its members the Chairman of each Board committee toeffectively discharge their duties and hadcommitted sufficient time to conducted a committee effectiveness responsibilities.
Before decisions are performtheir role effectively.
review with their respective members.
madeat Board meetings, consideration Theevaluation and review procedures Conflict of interests ishad as to the adequacy of the information consisted of one-to-one interviews Directors are required to seek consent from available to the Board: prompting the between the Chairmen and individual the Board prior to being appointed to, or deferral of decisions if further information Board and committee members.
The acquiring any material financial interest in, isrequired.
Directors are able to seek Board performance evaluation included any enterprise which competes, is likely to clarification, additional information or WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 57 Corporate governance report continued areview of strategy, risks and internal In contemplating the results of the 2013 controls, Chief Executive Officer evaluation and how effectiveness might succession, Board dynamicsincluding beimproved, the Board agreed that Board member independence, and periodically it would invite speakers to individual development requirements.
provide an external perspective on issues or trends which may impact the The overall conclusion drawn from the Companys strategy or operations.
2013 evaluation is that the individual members of the Board remain effective Relations with shareholders intheir ability to discharge their duties The Board is committed to maintaining andresponsibilities.
Each continues to open and constructive dialog with make a valuable contribution whilst shareholders: helping to ensure common demonstrating commitment to their role, awareness and interpretation of strategic with the Chairman displaying continued objectives, matters of governance and of effectiveness in leadership.
The resultant the Companys performance.
The principal Board and committees canbe seen to points of contact for major shareholders operate at a standard conducive to Shires are the Chief Executive Officer and the commitment to effective governance.
Chief Financial Officer with the views of Theyenjoy open and robust debate investors communicated to the Board andare provided with the information asawhole.
During the year the Group necessary for them to make informed engaged with shareholders through judgments and decisions.
thefollowing media: Medium Action Investor days and meetings with Executive Directors and senior management held and attended numerous events that facilitated shareholders engagement with a significant proportion of the Companys shareholder base.
Results announcements and presentations The Company communicated its performance to shareholders and analysts through quarterly financial results announcements, each accompanied by an explanatory teleconference presentation given by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
Financial reporting The Company published half and full-year reports in accordance with its listing on the London Stock Exchange and filed quarterly Form 10-Qs and an annual Form 10-K as a result of its listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting was held in Dublin on April 30, 2013.
Shareholders were invited to attend to vote on resolutions and also to meet with members of the Board, each of whom were in attendance.
Website The Companys website www.
com provides information about the Group and is regularly updated with corporate and regulatory news, IR events, broker forecasts and other information pertaining to the Companys operations.
Investor relations The Groups Investor Relations department regularly responds to shareholder communications through its dedicated inbox: InvestorRelations@shire.
com Corporate responsibility reports and The Company produces a bi-annual publication entitled Responsibility Matters which is distributed to engagement employees and interested socially responsible investors.
In addition, the Company participated in two socially responsible investor days hosted by Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
The Companys website also has a dedicated Responsibility section which is regularly updated.
Digital application Shires IR Briefcase application is regularly updated with news and presentations and provides access to the Companys latest Annual Report and Accounts.
58 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
