REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Throughout 2013, the Committee comprised the four independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out in the Code.
The Chairman of the Committee is Mr. J. C. Nicholls.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was most recently Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc and, prior to that, Group Finance Director of Hanson plc.
He is Audit Committee Chairman for Great Portland Estates plc and the Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman of DS Smith plc.
The other members of the Committee, Ms. J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell and Mr. C. V. Geoghegan, all have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 51.
J. C. NICHOLLS The combined relevant commercial and financial knowledge and experience AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN of the Committee members satisfies compliance with the Code provision C3.1.
Attendance of members at Committee meetings is displayed on page 53.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as PURPOSE AND AIM Secretary to the Committee.
The purpose of the Audit Committee the Committee is to Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
make recommendations on the reporting, controls, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors and the RESPONSIBILITIES Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to Executive Management in these areas.
The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be found on the Companys website.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee, Through this process its aim is to ensure high standards of corporate including comparison against the Code, and changes are recommended to and regulatory reporting, controls, risk management and compliance.
The Committee believes that excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness and reduces the risks of the business.
The responsibilities of the Committee set out in its Terms of Reference are: During the year, we have continued to focus on improving the quality e monitoring the integrity of the Companys Accounts including its of financial reporting and the control environment, and it is pleasing to Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report and reviewing note another year of good progress in the achievement of fulfilling our significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: responsibilities in this respect.
We are conscious that there remains e reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes: room for the implementation of improvements and therefore is a key focus for the Committee.
e reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems: The Committee is supportive of the latest UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations and aspires to achieve the aims of the best e reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise practice recommendations.
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: e monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys outsourced Internal Audit function: e reviewing the annual audit plan and receiving the Auditors reports and the Companys response: e reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys external Auditor: e considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external Auditor: e reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts and giving consideration as to whether it presents a fair, balanced and understandable picture of the Groups activities in the year: e overseeing the relationship with the external Auditor, including but not limited to approving its remuneration, assessing annually its independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditor as a whole, including the policy on the provision of any non-audit services: and e reporting to the Board and identifying any matters on which the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
SIG plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage external e assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to identify, advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice at the Companys assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
The Groups expense, should it deem it necessary.
During 2013 no member of the Committee risk identification and management process is fully set out on pages 18 to 21 nor the Committee collectively, found it necessary to obtain such separate and pages 55 and 56: advice beyond the advice that is directly provided to the Committee by the e reviewing whether the going concern basis continued to be appropriate external Auditor, Deloitte LLP, or from EY LLP who operate the Groups in the context of the Groups funding and liquidity position: outsourced Internal Audit function.
e monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial controls: As part of corporate governance, the Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The Committee e reviewing the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: reviewed its own performance in December 2013 and the results of this e monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the review were reported to the Board.
Internal Audit function, including any actions taken following any significant failures in internal controls: MEETINGS e reviewing, with the external Auditor, its terms of engagement, its audit The Committee meets regularly throughout the year with four planned plans, the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process meetings, and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
reviewing its effectiveness: The agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of the Committee may e reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: request reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
The agenda is designed to ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered e reviewing and making a recommendation concerning the re-appointment during the course of the year.
The Committee met four times during the of the external Auditor and considering future audit tender requirements: financial year.
e reviewing and making a recommendation concerning the appointment The Committee is presented with papers of good quality and in a timely of KPMG LLP with effect from 1 January 2014 to provide the externally manner to allow due consideration of the subjects under review.
Furthermore, outsourced Internal Audit function: and Committee meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time for a full and e carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting informed debate of the matter.
the satisfactory operation of the Committee.
Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the table The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the on page 53.
The Group Finance Director, Mr. D. G. Robertson, attended all Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, identifying any matters four of the meetings by invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The external on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes Auditor attended meetings of the Committee on three occasions.
The external recommendations on the steps to be taken.
In addition, the Board receives Auditor has direct access to the Committee Chairman and meets routinely with copies of the minutes of each meeting.
the Committee Chairman outside of the formal meetings.
The Chairman of the Board and the other Executive Directors attend certain meetings of the FINANCIAL REPORTING AND SIGNIFICANT Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
ACCOUNTING MATTERS The external Auditor had confidential discussions with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors The Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the being present on three occasions in 2013 and in March 2014 before the key accounting issues with regard to the financial statements: approval of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
e the carrying value of goodwill is systematically reviewed at each half year EY LLP, who provided an outsourced Internal Audit function for the Group and year end.
A consistent methodology is applied to the individual cash in 2013, were invited to meetings to present its reports and attended on one generating units, taking account of market outlook, risk-adjusted discounted occasion in 2013 and at the January 2014 meeting as they had not attended future cash flows, sensitivities and other factors which may have a bearing the December 2013 meeting.
The Committee also meets EY LLP without the on impairment considerations: Executive Directors present and did so on one occasion in 2013 and in e the Committee examined the procedures and controls in place to ensure January 2014.
In addition, the Committee Chairman met routinely with that the reporting, reviewing and accounting for supplier rebate income EY LLP outside of the formal meetings.
is properly managed and recognised appropriately in the Group Accounts: REPORT ON THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES DURING e the Committee gave careful consideration to the judgments made THE YEAR in the separate disclosure of non-underlying items.
In particular, the Committee sought to ensure that the treatment followed consistent During 2013, the Committee has ensured that its understanding of the risks principles and that reporting is suitably clear: and and challenges faced by the business has remained informed and relevant.
e methodologies and judgments applied in establishing provisions for trade No major matters were raised in the annual evaluation of the receivables, stock, onerous leases and dilapidations, were examined to Committees performance.
ensure consistent application and appropriateness to the trading position The main activities of the Committee in 2013 included the following: of the Group.
e with the assistance of reports received from management and the external Auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in connection with the preparation of the Companys half year and full year financial statements.
These included: non-underlying costs: impairment of non-current assets: post-employment benefits: taxation: provisions: and rebates payable and receivable: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED OVERSIGHT OF INTERNAL AUDIT of SIG plc in 2005 and was appointed, having previously been the Auditor of certain of the Groups operations from 2002, succeeding Arthur Andersen.
The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to senior management In March 2013, the Committee undertook its annual review of the and the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of SIGs risk management effectiveness of the external Auditor and considered the re-appointment framework.
Internal Audit forms an independent and objective assessment as to of Deloitte LLP.
A questionnaire was sent to the Finance Directors of each whether risks have been adequately identified: adequate internal controls are in of the Groups operating companies, which provided the Committee with place to manage those risks: and those controls are working effectively.
The results an overall view across the Group.
The questionnaire sought to establish of all assignments have been reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
the quality of the performance across a number of areas in relation to Areas of weakness that were identified during the year prompted a detailed their performance of the 2012 audit with individual scores allocated to action plan and a follow up audit check to establish that actions had been each area.
From this questionnaire and further discussions in the meeting, completed.
No failings or weaknesses were identified during the year which the Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continues to provide an had a material effect on the Groups performance.
The Audit Committee notes that the Group operates a Control Self Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, Assessment CSA internal control process to support the Internal Audit independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness process.
This process is summarised in the Corporate Governance Report of Deloitte LLP, the Committee did not consider it necessary to conduct on page 56. a tender process for the appointment of the Groups Auditor at this time, KPMG LLP were appointed on 1 January 2014 in place of EY LLP to provide although the Committee will continue to keep this under review.
The the outsourced Internal Audit function.
KPMG LLP were appointed following Committee recommends and the Board agrees that a resolution for the a full review process which involved tenders being made by five accounting re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Group for a further year firms, leading to a short list of three firms, from which a candidate was will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The process was carried out by the Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, who then recommended KPMG LLP AUDIT TENDER as the selected Internal Audit provider to the Audit Committee.
Their appointment was then recommended by the Audit Committee to the Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced a new recommendation that external audits should be put out for tender every ten years.
The OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR Committee has noted the changes to the Code, and the recent findings of the Competition Commission and the Guidance for Audit Committees The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external Auditor.
Having previously acted as Auditor to parts of the Group since 2002 The external Auditor reports to the Committee on the actions taken to Deloitte LLP was invited to tender for the whole Group audit in 2005 comply with both professional and regulatory requirements and with best and this resulted in Deloitte LLP being appointed as the external Auditor.
practice designed to ensure its independence.
As noted previously, the Committee continues to review the performance The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of audit and of the external Auditor and has been satisfied with the independent and non-audit services by the external Auditor, which was operated during 2013. rigorous audit process.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit The policy is based on the principles that they should undertake non-audit for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Having conducted a tender exercise services only where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective previously and having considered re-tendering in later years, the Committee provider of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does is to give consideration to the timing of the next formal tender with regard not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence to the regulatory requirements.
The Committee is currently of the view and objectivity.
It categorises such services between Auditor-permitted that it is potentially more effective to align the tender of the external Auditor services, Auditor-excluded services and Auditor-authorised services.
The with the rotation of the current lead audit partner, which is due in 2018. policy, which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
com, The Committee will continue to keep this under review with a particular defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the regard to regulatory developments.
criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor-authorised services.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any assignment where the output is then subject to their review as external Auditor.
The Committee The Committee has reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditor.
Accounts and advised the Board that, in its view, the report is fair, balanced The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
and understandable and provides the necessary information to enable Shareholders to assess the Groups performance and strategy.
The total sum invoiced to the Group by its external Auditor for non-audit services provided in 2013 was 0.1m, representing the Interim Review As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded and other audit-related assurance services 2012: 0.1m.
The total sum that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has ensured invoiced by the Auditor for audit services in respect of the same period was the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor.
On behalf of the Board The external Auditor reports to the Committee each year on the actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed its independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by these JONATHAN NICHOLLS financial statements.
Deloitte LLP was invited to propose for the global audit Chairman, Audit Committee 12 March 2014 SIG plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
