NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the Committee, in conjunction with the Board, drafts a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as well as the strategic and business objectives of the Group.
Once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work with an appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate short list could be agreed.
The agency is required to present for consideration by the Committee a long list of potential candidates considered to meet the essential criteria for the role which fully reflects the benefits of diversity.
The policy on Board diversity is available on the Companys website at www.
The drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would L. VAN fide WALLE then be invited to interview with members of the Committee and, if NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
This process PURPOSE AND AIM was followed in respect of the appointment of Mr. S. R. Mitchell as Group Chief Executive.
The Nominations Committees the Committee principal duty is the Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the Board to fill with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and Executive and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board.
Members of tailored induction to the Company is given.
Such an induction programme the Committee are not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
was operated for Mr. S. R. Mitchell.
MEETINGS AND MEMBERSHIP The Board utilises executive search consultants in the selection process for Non-Executive Directors in reviewing candidates with a variety of backgrounds The Committee meets as appropriate but at least once a year.
The consultants are required to work to a specification that During the year the Committee met on two occasions.
A quorum includes the strong desirability of producing a full list of candidates who meet is four members, at least two of whom shall be independent the essential criteria, whilst reflecting the benefits of diversity.
The Board will Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee operates under written only engage such consultants who are signed up to the voluntary code of Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice conduct on gender diversity on corporate boards.
and are available on the Companys website at www.
As has been reported in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50, As at 31 December 2013, the Committee comprised the Chairman, the SIG Board discussed in December the matter of women on Boards and Chief Executive and the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
set out the aim of achieving at least 25% female representation among the The Chairman is Mr. L. Van fide Walle and the other members Boards membership by 2015.
As at 31 December 2013, this percentage are Mr. C. V. Geoghegan, Ms. J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell, is 14%.
In reviewing Board composition and in agreeing criteria for new Mr. J. C. Nicholls and Mr. S. R. Mitchell.
Mr. S. R. Mitchell was Director appointments, the Committee is committed to seeking Directors appointed a member of the Committee on his appointment as with the right skillset and gender balance in line with the 25% aspiration.
Chief Executive on 1 March 2013 succeeding Mr. C. J. Davies who As part of corporate governance the Committee reviews its own ceased to be a member of the Committee on 28 February 2013. performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The Committee reviewed its own performance in December 2013 and RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES DURING the results of this review were reported to the Board.
THE YEAR The proposed activities for the Committee in 2014 will be to continue The Committee reviews the structure, size, diversity and to monitor and assess the Boards composition and diversity, composition of the Board and makes recommendations longer-term succession planning and potential further recruitment concerning the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Directors.
at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
During the year, the Committee in recognising the impact of the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, potential and overall balance of the Board, as well as diversity including gender, were fully considered LESLIE VAN fide WALLE in relation to the Board appointments made during the year.
The Chairman, Nominations Committee Committee retains external search and selection consultants as 12 March 2014 appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
All appointments to the Board will continue to be made on merit, however, differences in background, skills, experience and other qualities as well as gender will be considered in determining the optimum composition of the Board, with the aim to balance them appropriately.
SIG plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
