CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP The Senior Independent Director is Mr. C. V. Geoghegan.
There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be THE BOARD less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM and shall then be At 31 December 2013, the Board was made up of seven members, eligible for re-appointment by the Shareholders.
The Board may from time comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive to time appoint one or more Directors as Managing Director or to fulfil any Directors.
The Directors who held office during the year were: other Executive function within the Company for such term, remuneration Mr. L. Van fide Walle Non-Executive Chairman and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke Mr. C. J. Davies Chief Executive resigned 28 February 2013 such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
Mr. S. R. Mitchell Chief Executive appointed 1 March 2013 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS previously Chief Executive Designate, appointed 10 December 2012 Under the Articles of Association all Directors are subject to election at the Mr. D. G. Robertson Group Finance Director AGM immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors will seek election Ms. J. E. Ashdown Independent Non-Executive Director or re-election at the Companys AGM each year.
To enable Shareholders to Mr. M. Ewell Independent Non-Executive Director make an informed decision, the 2014 Notice of AGM includes biographical Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director details and a statement as to why the Company believes that Directors Mr. J. C. Nicholls Independent Non-Executive Director should be re-elected.
It is the view of the Board that each of the Non-Executive Directors standing Biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this for re-election brings considerable management experience and an independent report appear on page 51.
Details of Committee memberships are set out perspective to the Boards discussions and are considered to be independent on page 54. of management and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgment.
Mr. S. R. Mitchell joined SIG on 1 December 2012 as Chief Executive Designate and was appointed a Director on 10 December 2012.
Mr. C. J. Davies stepped The Chairman intends to confirm at the AGM that the performance of each down as Chief Executive and as a Director of the Company on 28 February 2013. individual continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Mr. Mitchell became Chief Executive on 1 March 2013.
The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Directors At 31 December 2013, SIG had one female Board member, equating to Remuneration Report commencing on page 63.
Full details of Directors 14% female representation of its Directors.
remuneration, of their interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 72 to 79 in the Directors The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Remuneration Report.
independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will those Directors who have other appointments in outside entities.
The Board be available at the AGM which is scheduled to take place on 16 May 2014. considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings their own senior BOARD PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES level of experience and expertise and that the balance between Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy independent challenge to The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met formally on nine The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific areas of occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board expertise and knowledge.
Their wide-ranging experience and backgrounds Committee meetings is set out in the table on the opposite page.
All Board ensure that they can debate matters constructively in relation to both the members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate development of strategy and performance against objectives set out by the to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their sent out seven days before meetings take place.
range of experience, are set out on page 51.
The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that they The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and remuneration are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors corporate governance developments and changing commercial risks.
There Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 79. is an agreed schedule of matters reserved to the Board for collective decision which can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly These matters include: defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing which are agreed by the Board and reviewed by the Company Secretary on a regular basis.
e determining the strategy and control of the Group: The Board approves any necessary changes to reflect changes in legislation, e amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: policy and practices.
The Chairman leads the Board and sets its agenda, ensuring that all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, are able e approval of financial reporting: to make an effective contribution.
He also ensures that there is a constructive e oversight of the Groups internal controls: relationship between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all operational matters which include the e approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: implementation of the Group strategy and policies approved by the Board.
e Board membership and appointments: The Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
SIG plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts e acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed limit: Following the implementation of a secure iPad paperless meeting system in 2012, its successful roll-out has progressively resulted in the replacement of e corporate governance matters: and hard copy packs with electronic versions.
Paperless meetings are now the e approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
norm, not only for the SIG plc Board but also its Committees and the Group Executive Committee.
This supports our online drive across the Group and is The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, consistent with reducing the impact of our operations on the environment.
including the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board will also appoint Committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS For example, during the year, Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation and the preliminary and interim results announcements.
Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 to avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
This duty is request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www.
in addition to the obligation that they owe to the Company to disclose to the To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have Board any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit and followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
matter reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such Directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of any conflicts by the their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These are followed including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns that procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular any Director may have in connection with the operation of the Company.
item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
The Board believes that the During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
Further, on resignation, procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied invite him her to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of the Company.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year ended 31 December 2013: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend Meetings eligible to attend J. E. Ashdown C. J. Davies n a n a M. Ewell C. V. Geoghegan S. R. Mitchell n a n a J. C. Nicholls D. G. Robertson n a n a n a L. Van fide Walle n a n a Meeting attended Absent Chairman This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where n a appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
Due to illness the Chairman was unable to attend the AGM on 23 May 2013.
All of the other Directors in office at the date of the AGM were in attendance at that meeting.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations both in the UK and Ireland, and Mainland Europe to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP CONTINUED GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GROUP BOARD GROUP EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee operates The Executive Committee The Remuneration Committee The Nominations Committee under written Terms of Reference, operates under written Terms operates under written Terms of operates under written Terms which are consistent with current of Reference.
The Committee Reference, which are consistent of Reference, which are consistent best practice.
The Committee addresses operational issues and with current best practice.
The with current best practice.
comprises only independent is responsible for implementing Committee comprises only The Nominations Committee Non-Executive Directors.
The Group strategy and policies, independent Non-Executive comprises the Chairman, Chief Chairman of the Committee day-to-day management and Directors.
The Chairman of the Executive and the Independent attends the AGM to respond monitoring performance.
The Committee attends the AGM Non-Executive Directors.
The to any Shareholder questions Committee met eleven times to respond to any Shareholder meetings of the Committee are that might be raised on the during the year.
questions that might be raised chaired by the Non-Executive Committees activities.
The on the Committees activities.
The Chairman of the Members: Committees report is set out The Committees report is set Committee attends the AGM Mr. S. R. Mitchell on pages 60 to 62. out on pages 63 to 79. to respond to any Shareholder Group Chief Executive questions that might be raised The Group operates an Delegated authorities: from 1 March 2013 on the Committees activities.
outsourced Internal Audit function Sets remuneration and The Committees report is set Mr. R. T. Barclay the Group does not have a incentives for the Executive out on page 80.
Managing Director, UK dedicated Internal Audit function.
Directors: approves and and Republic of Ireland KPMG LLP were appointed Delegated authorities: monitors remuneration and on 1 January 2014 in place of Mr. A. P. Greenaway incentive plans for the Group: Ensures that the Board and its EY LLP.
The Board annually Corporate Development Director and assesses and makes Committees have the optimum reviews the need for such a Miss.
L. H. Kennedy recommendations to the Board balance of skills, knowledge and function and the effectiveness Group Human Resources on the policy on Executive experience by nominating of the Internal Audit function.
suitable candidates for approval by the Board to fill Executive Delegated authorities: Mr. D. Kilby Members: and Non-Executive vacancies Managing Director, Monitors the integrity of financial Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Chairman Mainland Europe reporting, the performance of the Members: Ms. J. E. Ashdown external auditor and reviews the Mr. D. G. Robertson Mr. L. Van fide Walle Chairman effectiveness of the Groups Mr. M. Ewell Group Finance Director Ms. J. E. Ashdown systems of internal control and Mr. C. J. Davies Mr. J. C. Nicholls related compliance activities.
Mr. M. Ewell Group Chief Executive until 28 February 2013 Mr. C. V. Geoghegan Members: Mr. S. R. Mitchell Mr. A. Mander Mr. J. C. Nicholls Chairman Group Human Resources Director Mr. J. C. Nicholls Ms. J. E. Ashdown until 30 September 2013 Mr. M. Ewell Mr. C. V. Geoghegan UK AND IRELAND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MAINLAND EUROPE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COUNTRY OPERATING COMPANY COUNTRY OPERATING COMPANY MANAGEMENT BOARDS MANAGEMENT BOARDS Report of the Audit Committee Directors remuneration report Nominations Committee p. 60 p. 63 p. 80 SIG plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which accord with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005, are as follows: The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of OPEN CULTURE the Company, and during the year the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its three principal Committees.
The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture with In December 2011, as part of this programme, the Board commissioned an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identification of Equity Communications Limited, an independent third party, to prepare a problems and issues, so that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise tailored Board evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way of questionnaire any impact on the business.
process with the emphasis, in addition to the evaluation of the performance ONGOING PROCESS FOR RISK IDENTIFICATION, of the Board and its Committees, being targeted at identifying the future EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT needs of the Board, including Board structure, succession planning, induction programmes and the Boards approach to risk and strategy.
Each Director During 2013 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the system of internal control.
This review covered all controls including operational, independent facilitator who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial controls.
The The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results of the evaluation to the review is undertaken on a six monthly basis.
This process includes the following: Board, which discussed the results of the evaluation in detail at its March 2012 e the Group Board maintains an overall corporate risk register, the meeting.
The discussions then focused on how the actions and improvements content of which is determined by regular discussions between Senior identified through the process should be implemented.
The Board was satisfied Management, the Group Board and the Audit Committee.
This is also that the evaluation of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the formally reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and discussed Directors had participated on an open and frank basis.
The risk register contains the significant risks faced by the In December 2012 and 2013 by way of follow up to the evaluation process Group and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a gross completed in March 2012 an effectiveness survey of the Board and its level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations was undertaken.
This provides the Board with the The surveys were internally facilitated and carried out by questionnaire.
Each opportunity to review the level of risk that the business is prepared to Director including the Chairman was asked to place a score against a variety accept.
The register also contains the assurance provided over current of questions and to make additional comments where appropriate.
The surveys key mitigating controls.
Where further actions have been identified to also sought to identify the extent to which the issues raised in the previous mitigate risks to a level deemed acceptable, these are agreed with specific evaluation process had been addressed.
The summary report and response timelines for delivery and are monitored closely until fully implemented.
analysis for the December 2012 survey were presented to the Board in March This is summarised in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 49: 2013, with suggested improvement actions.
e the risk management process is cascaded throughout the Group, with The 2013 summary report was presented to the Board in December 2013. operating subsidiary Boards responsible for maintaining their own risk In January 2014, the progress on agreed actions was reviewed and debated.
registers and assessing their control systems: The Board notes that the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to carry out e a defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation of authority: an externally facilitated Board evaluation at least every three years.
Having last e formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines conducted such an evaluation in December 2011, the Board intends to conduct on appraisal techniques and success criteria: a formal externally facilitated effectiveness and evaluation process in 2014. e clear responsibilities on the part of financial management for the The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each Director their training and maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review development needs.
During the year a number of the Directors attended training of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information: courses and seminars on subjects and topics including those that the Chairman had identified as being areas where training would increase the knowledge e a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for and effectiveness of the Director.
The Board as a whole received training each operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief on corporate governance developments in relation to the UK Stewardship Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Code, the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the new Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the annual report reporting requirements.
Further training is programmed for 2014. forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, is taken where appropriate.
There is also weekly cash and treasury meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, reporting to the Group Finance Director and periodic reporting to the taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Board on the Groups tax and treasury position: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL e provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate and timely information including relevant Key Performance Indicators, based on The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal reliable management information systems which are continually being control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to improved and updated: implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and e monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and Group operation of appropriate internal control systems.
Such systems are designed Finance Director: to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute e regular business unit management Board meetings periodically attended assurance against material misstatement or loss.
by the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, Executive Board meetings and the Company Board meetings at which existing, new The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and evolving operational, financial and other risks are discussed, and internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk appropriate actions to manage these risks are agreed and followed up: management and risk management procedures and compliance controls.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing ONGOING PROCESS FOR RISK IDENTIFICATION, investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2013 Group employees EVALUATION AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED used this system to raise concerns about a number of separate issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
e discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identified and, The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the Executive Board structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation and and the Company Board: that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
e operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA questionnaires every and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that this has been in place six months.
These questionnaires require managers to respond to for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have and Accounts.
These are analysed by local and Group Management and all potential risks or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS process are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being reported to the Audit Committee: and The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its e a structured and approved programme of Internal Audit visits with the Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the of a continuous programme of improvement.
Annual Report and the AGM.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF the Companys website.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL market and these, together with copies of the presentations made to analysts, can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed reports corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website.
from Senior Management, its advisors, the outsourced Internal Audit function and our external auditor in order to assist the Board with their annual The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
The Board is kept Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for improvement in informed of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of internal controls are continuously identified and action plans are devised.
analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor opinion feedback.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management In addition feedback from major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the and the Board.
The Board considers that none of the areas of improvement Chairman and the Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal identified constitute a significant failing or weakness.
The Board considers presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance with the internal Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Turnbull overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Chairman and the Senior Review Group.
Independent Director are available to discuss governance and strategy with FINANCIAL REPORTING major Shareholders if requested and both are prepared to contact individual Shareholders should any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes Throughout the year, we respond to correspondence received from described above, the Group also has specific internal controls and risk Shareholders on a wide range of issues and also participate in a number management systems to govern the financial reporting process and of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety of investor research preparation of the annual financial statements.
These systems include clear bodies.
Although the other Non-Executive Directors are not at present asked policies and the procedures for ensuring that the Groups financial reporting to meet the Companys Shareholders, they regularly attend presentations of processes and the preparation of its Consolidated Accounts comply with all the annual and interim results.
These are comprehensively detailed in the Group Finance Manual, which is used by the businesses in the The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with preparation of their results.
Financial control requirements are also set out in private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors the Group Finance Manual.
attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least WHISTLEBLOWING 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under which employees Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called reporting or other matters.
A copy of this policy is available on the Companys and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for or against website.
The Company also has in place a confidential hotline which is the resolution together with the number of absolutions is announced.
The available to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility for them to Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
bring matters to managements attention on a confidential basis.
The hotline Details of the Proxies lodged on all resolutions are published on the Companys is provided by an independent third party.
During 2013 these systems were website immediately after the AGM.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
Find out more online at www.
com SIG plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES At the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW Company had received notification of the following shareholdings in excess of 3% of its unused share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to Rules of the Financial Services Authority these notifications were the same construction and related markets in the UK, Ireland and Mainland Europe.
at 31 December 2013 : The main product sectors supplied are Insulation and Energy Management, Exteriors and Interiors.
Number of % of ordinary shares issued voting The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report on pages 6 to 49 contain a Shareholder of 10p each share capital review of these activities and comment on the future outlook.
The financial Blackrock Inc. 65,075,088 11.01 risk management objectives, policies and Key Performance Indicators of the Aviva plc 43,150,450 7.30 Group are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 49.
IKO Enterprises Limited 34,384,891 5.82 Schroders plc 29,961,817 5.07 As at the date of this report, other than the sale of the German Roofing Investec Asset Management 29,728,826 5.03 business detailed in Note 12 to the Accounts, there have been no important Norges Bank 17,762,016 3.01 events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, that have occurred since the end of the financial year.
STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 46 to 49.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Statutory It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political Information confirm that: donations were made during the year 2012: nil.
e so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate Governance are of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and disclosed on pages 50 to 59. e each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a GROUP RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2013 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the is shown on page 83.
The movement in Group reserves during the year is provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. shown on page 87 in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Segmental information is set out in Note 1 on pages 94 and 95.
GOING CONCERN The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.4p per share 2012: 2.0p After making enquiries the Directors have formed a judgment, at the time which, together with the interim dividend of 1.15p per share 2012: 1.0p, of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable expectation that the makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.55p 2012: 3.0p.
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the AGM, will be made the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the on 30 May 2014 to Shareholders registered at the close of business going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The key factors on 2 May 2014. considered by the Directors in making this statement are set out on page 37 GREENHOUSE GASES of the Strategic Report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR Details of the Groups Greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on page 43 of the Corporate Responsibility Report.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee in accordance with Section 489 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions are to be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Details of post balance sheet events are included in Notes 12 and 15 of the Board to fix its remuneration.
The remuneration of the Auditor for the year ended Consolidated Financial Statements.
31 December 2013 is fully disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 97.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Save as disclosed in Note 31 to the Accounts on page 122 and except for Directors service contracts, the Company did not have any material transactions The Notice convening the AGM, which is to be held at the Aston Hotel, or transactions of an unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related Britannia Way, Catcliffe, Sheffield S60 5BD at 12 noon on Friday 16 May 2014, parties in the periods in which any Director is or was materially interested.
together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular which will be circulated to all Shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting along with this report.
This document will also be available on the SIG plc website.
All Shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM, at which they will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of AND INDEMNITIES the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate cover for any Shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which legal action brought against them.
The Company has also provided an will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
indemnity which was in force during the financial year for its Directors to the Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a unless the Directors decide otherwise.
Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an No claims or qualifying indemnity provisions and no qualifying pension extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the scheme indemnity provisions have been made either during the year Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he she can or by the time of approval of this Directors Report.
value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies for the benefit of the members.
No Shareholders can be compelled to and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks of financial instruments accept any asset that would give them a liability.
is set out on pages 35 to 37 and in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS Statements on pages 110 to 112.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Any Form of Proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form Details of acquisitions during the year and subsequently are covered in or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 106 and 107. holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in Details of businesses sold or agreed to be sold at the balance sheet date are the appointment proposes to vote.
covered in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 103.
No Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend SHARE CAPITAL or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a Shareholder if he she or any person The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 of the shares of 10p each.
At 31 December 2013, the Company had a called up Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power share capital of 591,100,447 shares of 10p each 2012: 590,837,435. to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he she or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the During the year ended 31 December 2013, options were exercised pursuant information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares 263,012 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups Employee and These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice Executive Schemes are set out in Note 9 on pages 100 to 102 which also of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
relevant Section 793 Notice, whichever is the earlier.
RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES TRANSFER OF SHARES The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Companys The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may be changed with the not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares agreement of Shareholders.
A Shareholder whose name appears on the in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board Companys Register of Members can choose whether his shares are evidenced may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless: the by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by a certificate for the share which it relates and such other Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general meeting evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his or her transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his or her representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of Transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the which they are the registered Shareholder.
Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the result of a vote on a show The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or by at least 30 days a year, by closing the register of Shareholders.
The Board cannot five Shareholders or their representatives present in person and having suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without the right to vote, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present gaining consent from CREST.
There are no other limitations on the holding in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, of ordinary shares in the Company.
or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
SIG plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Directors report Accounts VARIATION OF RIGHTS ACQUISITION BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of 59,085,970 shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied or revoked either: of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
The Company has made no purchases of its own shares pursuant to this authority.
The Company i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value will seek to renew this authority at the 2014 AGM.
of the issued shares of the class: or FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Board has reviewed the contents of this years Annual Report and The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there Accounts and in its view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching provides the necessary information to enable Shareholders to assess the to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new Groups performance and strategy.
shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights CAUTIONARY STATEMENT expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect The cautionary statement can be found on page 37 of the Strategic Report.
of capital or more favourable voting rights.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS APPROVAL OF DIRECTORS REPORT The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been The Directors Report comprising pages 50 to 81 was approved by a duly given in accordance with the Companies Act, remove any Director before the authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 12 March 2014 and expiration of his her period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: signed on its behalf by Richard Monro, the Company Secretary.
i he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of law or is removed pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association or he she becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: ii he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: iii he she becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves RICHARD MONRO that his her office is vacated: iv he she resigns: v he she fails to attend Board Company Secretary meetings for six consecutive months without leave of absence from the Board 12 March 2014 and the Board resolves that his her office is vacated: vi his her appointment terminates in accordance with the provisions of the Companys Articles: vii he she is dismissed from Executive office: viii he she is convicted of an indictable offence and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director: or ix the conduct of the Director is the subject of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he she remains a Director.
AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
FIXED ASSETS In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
2014 INTERIM REPORT Current regulations permit the Company not to send hard copies of its Interim Reports to Shareholders and therefore the Company intends to publish its Interim Report only on its website at www.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
