D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE about how we work together, how well our committees Associated British Foods has a function and also about our individual contributions.
You will find details of the process, including some key outcomes, on pages well-established framework of 49 and 50 of this report.
policies and processes to support Diversity is a key issue for all boards and, at Associated British Foods, we recognise that relevant diversity, including of gender, its governance objectives.
They is vital to our business and its future growth.
Our approach to boardroom diversity and to nurturing talent to ensure that we are underpinned by one of the have a truly diverse workforce that both reflects all our groups guiding business principles customers, and is capable of meeting future business challenges, is discussed both in the Chairmans statement on of encouraging ethical business.
page 8 and in the Nomination committee report on page 51.
In recent years, there have been a number of reviews and Chairmans foreword consultations on governance-related matters.
The board Effective corporate governance remains vital to the groups continues to monitor and take an active interest in developments ability to operate successfully on a global basis.
Our statement of compliance with the provisions British Foods has a well-established framework of policies of the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out below.
I am and processes to support its governance objectives.
They are pleased to report that, except in one aspect, the Company has underpinned by one of the groups guiding business principles complied with all relevant provisions.
We are required, for the of encouraging ethical business.
These principles are explored year under review, to report against the version of the UK in more detail in the Companys newly published corporate Corporate Governance Code published in 2010 but have taken responsibility report.
the revised edition of these guidelines into account where The board is responsible for the long-term success of the group.
possible in preparing this report.
As Chairman, I lead the board and, in doing so, I recognise the importance of the annual performance evaluation in helping to ensure that the board operates properly in every aspect of its Charles Sinclair role.
This years evaluation again produced some useful insights Chairman Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code An updated version of the Code was published in September 2012 As a premium listed company on the London Stock Exchange, and first applies to companies with financial years commencing the Company reports in accordance with the UK Corporate after 1 October 2012 the 2012 Code.
The Company will Governance Code the Code published in June 2010 which therefore report in accordance with the revised guidelines in sets out standards of good practice in relation to board its 2014 annual report, although the revised provisions of the leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and 2012 Code have been taken into account where possible when relations with shareholders.
The Code is published by the UK preparing this report.
Financial Reporting Council FRC and a copy of the Code is The board considers that the Company has, throughout the available from the FRC website www.
year ended 14 September 2013, applied the main principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code, with the following exception: Code provision Status Explanation D. 2.1 The Chairman Charles Sinclair is both The board of Associated British Foods plc considers that should not chair the Chairman and chairman of the Charles Sinclair, due to his experience, is best suited to chair Remuneration Remuneration committee.
No director has any involvement in the committee determination of his own remuneration.
The board believes that the Company has maintained robust governance while at the same time benefiting from having Charles Sinclair as the chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 47 The board Emma Adamo is not considered to be independent by the The board is collectively responsible to the Companys board in view of her relationship with Wittington Investments shareholders for the direction and oversight of the Company Limited, the Companys majority shareholder.
She was to ensure its long-term success.
The board met regularly appointed in December 2011 to represent this shareholding on throughout the year to approve the groups strategic objectives, the board of the Company.
The board considers that the other to lead the group within a framework of effective controls which four non-executive directors are independent in character and enable risk to be assessed and managed and to ensure that judgement and that they are each free from any business or sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives set.
other relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board has agreed the specific business and governance matters which are reserved for its decision to help it discharge The board recognises that, as at 3 November 2013, Tim Clarke these responsibilities and oversee control of the Companys has served nine years as a director of the Company and, in affairs.
This schedule of matters reserved for the boards recognition of this length of service, he stepped down as a approval includes: member of the Audit committee on 11 September 2013.
The board has given careful consideration to the matter of Tim annual business strategy and objectives, budget Clarkes independence and is mindful that the Code requires andforecasts: that, if a director has served on the board for more than nine monitoring delivery of the groups business strategy years, the board should state its reasons if the director is andobjectives: nevertheless considered to be independent.
The length of Tims service and the consequent knowledge and experience changes to the Companys capital, management or he brings to the role are greatly valued by the board.
It is the controlstructures: boards view that Tim Clarke continues to demonstrate the dividend policy and dividend recommendation: qualities of independence in carrying out his role as a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director, tax and treasury policies: supporting the executive team in an objective and independent trading statements, interim results, interim management manner.
Tim Clarke will offer himself for re-election at this years statements, final results, annual report and accounts: annual general meeting.
Subject to his re-election, Tim will retain his role as Senior Independent Director and the board the overall system of internal control and risk management: will continue to keep his independence under review.
major capital projects, corporate actions or related actions Biographical and related information about the directors is set andinvestment: out on pages 44 and 45. communications policy including procedures for the release Chairman and Chief Executive of price sensitive information: The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are changes to the structure, size and composition of the board: separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the board to appointment of directors and the Company Secretary: and ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
material changes to pension plans or the introduction of The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is responsible for the operation newschemes.
and leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, George Weston, is Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board responsible for leading and managing the groups business committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination within the authorities delegated by the board and the committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of implementation of board strategy and policy.
reference, and report regularly to the board.
For further details, please see the Board committees section below.
Senior Independent Director Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised Senior Independent Board composition Director.
The role of the Senior Independent Director is to act At the date of this report, the board comprises eight directors: as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an Chairman intermediary for other directors where necessary.
He is also Charles Sinclair available to shareholders should a need arise to convey concerns to the board which they have been unable to convey Executive directors through the Chairman or through the executive directors.
George Weston Chief Executive During the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, the John Bason Finance Director non-executive directors have met once without the presence Non-executive directors of the Chairman to appraise his performance.
Emma Adamo Tim Clarke Javier Ferrn Lord Jay Peter Smith Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The non-executive directors Board committees In addition to their overall responsibility for strategy and The board has established three principal board committees business results, the non-executive directors play a key role to which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
These in providing a solid foundation for good corporate governance are the Audit committee, the Nomination committee and the and ensure that no individual or group dominates the boards Remuneration committee.
They each occupy or have occupied senior and activities of these committees are described later in this positions in industry or public life, bring a valuable external view corporate governance report and, in the case of the to the boards deliberations through their experience and insight Remuneration committee, in the Remuneration report on from other sectors enabling them to contribute significantly to page 62.
Membership of these committees is reviewed board decision-making.
The formal letters of appointment of annually.
Minutes of committee meetings are made available non-executive directors are available for inspection at the to all directors on a timely basis.
The full written terms of reference for the Nomination, Audit Re-election of directors and Remuneration committees are available on the Companys In accordance with the Codes recommendations, all directors website www.
co. uk and hard copies are available will be proposed for re-election at the 2013 annual general onrequest.
meeting to be held in December.
Information flow Board meetings The Company Secretary manages the provision of information The board held eight meetings during the year.
to the board at appropriate times in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
In addition to formal meetings, Senior executives below board level are invited, when the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with appropriate, to attend board meetings and to make all directors.
The Chairman also holds informal meetings with presentations on the results and strategies of their business non-executive directors, without any of the executives being units.
Papers for board and committee meetings are generally present, to discuss any issues affecting the group, if this is provided to directors for board and committee meetings a week thought necessary.
Regular management updates are sent to in advance.
directors to keep the non-executive directors informed of events The attendance of the directors at board and committee throughout the group between board meetings and to ensure meetings during the year to 14 September 2013 is shown in the that they are kept fully advised of the latest issues affecting table below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Conflicts of interest procedure Board committee committee committee The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation Charles Sinclair 8 8 1 1 6 6 where a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of this process, the board: George Weston 8 8 considers each conflict situation separately on its John Bason 8 8 particularfacts: Emma Adamo 8 8 considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest 1 Tim Clarke 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 of the conflicted directors duties under the Companies 1 Act 2006: Javier Ferrn 8 8 1 1 6 6 keeps records and board minutes as to authorisations granted Lord Jay 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and Peter Smith 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
1 Javier Ferrn was appointed as a member of the Audit committee on The board has complied with these procedures during the year.
11September 2013 in place of Tim Clarke who stepped down with effect from the same date.
Directors insurance The Company has in place appropriate directors and officers liability insurance cover in respect of legal action against its executive and non-executive directors, amongst others.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 49 Board business Board performance evaluation During the financial year, key activities of the board included: An evaluation to assess the performance of the board as a whole, its committees and that of the individual directors is Strategy Holding an annual meeting to focus on conducted annually with the aim of improving the effectiveness group strategy.
of the board and its members and the performance of thegroup.
Governance Approving the Companys full year and and risk interim results.
Following last years externally facilitated evaluation, this years review, which took place in the final quarter of the financial year, Making a recommendation on the 2012 was led by the Senior Independent Director, Tim Clarke, final dividend and approving the 2013 together with non-executive director, Emma Adamo.
Carrying out an annual review of the Process material financial and non-financial risks A discussion guide was prepared and circulated to each director facing the groups businesses.
This included the following topics, which formed the basic agenda around which each discussion Receiving both regular divisional food was framed: safety updates and an annual groupwide board structure, organisation and dynamics, including the mix update.
of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity including Participating fully in the annual board gender diversity, the clarity of leadership given to the performance evaluation and receiving organisations purpose, direction and values, how well the a report on the same.
board works as a unitary body, the environment for effective debate and decision-making: Reviewing the composition of the principal board committees.
board efficiency and effectiveness, including agenda content, Receiving regular updates on the quality of divisional presentations, the adequacy of time regulatorymatters.
given to reflective discussion, and leadership by the Chairman: strategic review and debate: Performance Receiving regular reports to the board monitoring from the Chief Executive.
risk management and governance: Receiving, on a rolling basis, senior people issues including management development, management presentations from each succession planning, and remuneration strategy: of the group business areas.
business performance, including the quality of reporting Approving the group budget for the measures and the level of information flowing to the board: 2013 14 financial year.
the board committees, including whether all key issues were Undertaking an annual goodwill and being addressed, the quality and clarity of information property, plant and equipment provided, the depth of debate and the effectiveness of the impairment review.
chairman in each case: and Receiving regular feedback on improvements in board effectiveness made in 2013, and key directors meetings held with issues and improvements needed for 2014. institutional investors.
Tim Clarke and Emma Adamo undertook a confidential, Receiving reports from the Audit unattributable interview with each director, the Company committee chairman.
Secretary and each other based on the discussion guide.
Following the meetings, Tim Clarke and Emma Adamo Corporate Receiving an update from the Chief produced a written report, which was discussed with each responsibility Executive on his strategy for corporate of the Chairman and the Chief Executive before being sent to responsibility within the group.
board members and discussed at the following board meeting.
Receiving regular management reports on health, safety and environment It was widely recognised from the many positive responses issues.
to this years exercise that good progress had been made in implementing proposals arising out of the previous internal Receiving an update on Primarks evaluation in 2011 as well as from the 2012 externally response to the Rana Plaza collapse, facilitatedreview.
People Considering senior succession planning and people activities.
Various Undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting and, subsequently, discussing issues arising from that meeting.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Actions implemented arising from 2012 evaluation include: Board development The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is Objective responsible for the induction of new directors and the continuing Synergy Research of possible synergies within the development of directors.
Training and development is provided group, particularly the Ingredients division, to all directors at board and committee meetings.
year under review, this included updates on reforms of the legal framework for directors remuneration in quoted companies and Strategy Good progress made by the board, as a implications of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
In forum for constructive debate, over the key addition to any third-party training and development which all area of strategy for the group as a whole, the directors have undertaken on their own behalf or as part of including the role of the corporate centre other non-executive directorships and business roles during the which is described in the Group business year, board members received regular corporate governance model and strategy section on pages 2 updates in their board packs.
Non-executive directors make and 3 of this annual report.
periodic visits to group operations including on occasion making Risk Greater emphasis was placed on visits to the groups overseas businesses.
management understanding non-financial risks in Engaging with shareholders the businesses.
The board works to engage effectively with the Companys Succession General consensus reached on desirability shareholders so that both its objectives and those of planning of further diversity at board level both in shareholders are understood.
terms of gender and international The Company announces its achievements and prospects to perspectives.
shareholders by way of the interim results and annual report and accounts, with significant matters relating to the trading or Based on the response and results of the 2013 evaluation, the development of the business disseminated to the market by directors view overall was that the board was working very way of Stock Exchange announcements and by press release effectively as a unitary body and that the boards principal and postings on the Companys website.
committees were also continuing to function efficiently and effectively.
Each of the directors was considered to be making The board continues to promote effective engagement with a valuable contribution and full commitment, including of time, its shareholders and, on behalf of the board, the Chairman, to their respective roles.
Chief Executive and Finance Director have met institutional shareholders and financial analysts on a regular basis throughout A list of recommended action points arising from this years the year to discuss the Companys business strategy and evaluation is being implemented under the direction of the current performance.
At each board meeting, the directors are Chairman including actions set out in the table below.
briefed on shareholder meetings that have taken place and on Areas identified for action from 2013 evaluation include: the feedback received.
Objective The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders in the event that communication with the Chairman, Chief Board impact Agenda to be shaped to give sufficient Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve concerns prominence to certain key business issues or where such contact is inappropriate.
identified in the evaluation, namely the expansion of Primark: the development of The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications the food portfolio: the implications of EU on matters of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
sugar regime reform: and enhancing the Annual general meeting AGM performance of Ingredients and GWF.
The AGM will be held on Friday, 6 December 2013 at 11.00 am Corporate Additional time to be made available at the Congress Centre in London.
The board views the AGM as responsibility on the board agenda to address further a valuable opportunity to communicate with private shareholders development of groupwide CR agenda, in particular, for whom it provides the opportunity to hear about its divisional implications and associated the general development of the business and to ask questions communication challenges.
of the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the key committees and other directors.
The practice has been for a Risk Recognition of need for increased focus on short film to be shown at the meeting explaining a particular management key existential risks arising from competitive, area of the groups business.
At this years AGM, the film regulatory, health or CR issues in each focuses on the groups retail business, Primark.
Major Extended information to be provided to investments the board in the area of key market demand and competitive dynamics when a major investment or proposal is under consideration.
Succession Nomination committee to meet more planning regularly to progress board succession and contingency plans.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 51 The Notice of meeting, which sets out in full the resolutions for Nomination committee report consideration by shareholders together with explanatory notes, Members has been sent to shareholders and is also available on the During the year and at the date of this report: Investors section of the Companys website www.
Charles Sinclair Chairman Any member attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
Tim Clarke The Company must cause to be answered any such question Javier Ferrn relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, unless Lord Jay it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Peter Smith meeting to do so, or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Shareholders attending the meeting Key duties will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination resolution.
All resolutions will be voted on by poll and the results committees key duties include: will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website as soon as practicable following leading the process for board appointments and making themeeting.
recommendations to the board: Accountability and audit regularly reviewing the board structure, size and The board is required by the Code to present a fair, balanced composition including the skills, knowledge, and understandable assessment of the Companys position independence, experience and diversity, recommending and prospects.
In relation to this requirement, reference is made any changes: to the statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the considering plans for orderly succession for appointments financial statements set out on page 80 of this annual report to the board and to senior management to maintain an and accounts.
appropriate balance of skills and experience within the The independent auditors report on page 81 includes a Company and to ensure progressive refreshment of statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
theboard: The board recognises that its responsibility to present a fair, keeping under review the leadership needs of the group, balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim both executive and non-executive, to ensure the continued and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators, ability of the group to compete efficiently in the and information required to be presented by law.
marketplace: and Business model before any appointment is made by the board, evaluating A description of the Companys business model for sustainable the skills, knowledge, experience, independence and growth is set out in the Group business model and strategy diversity on the board and, in light of this evaluation, section on pages 2 and 3 and in the Business strategies section preparing a description of the role and capabilities required on pages 6 and 7.
These sections provide an explanation of the for a particular appointment.
basis on which the group generates value and preserves it over the long term and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
Governance Going concern The Nomination committee comprises a minimum of three After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable members at any time, a majority of whom are independent expectation that the Company and the group have adequate non-executive directors.
A quorum shall consist of two resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable members being either two independent non-executive directors future.
Accordingly, and consistent with the guidance contained or one independent non-executive director and the Chairman.
in the document titled Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance Executive directors, members of senior management and other for Directors of UK Companies 2009 published by the FRC, parties may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the committee is chaired by an independent non-executive director elected by the remaining members.
The committee may take independent professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference at the Companysexpense.
The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the boards performance evaluation process.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination committee can be viewed on the Investors section of the Companys website www.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Meetings promotes and develops women in the workplace.
There has The committee met once during the year under review.
been the recognition that, in some of the groups businesses, women are under-represented at the most senior management Committee activities during the year level.
The series of programmes and initiatives has been created During the year, the committee considered board succession to address the groups gender diversity objectives and they planning matters.
The Code provides that length of tenure is signal its long-term commitment to gender equality.
a factor to consider when determining the independence of non-executive directors.
This year, when reviewing the Audit committee report re-election of directors at the AGM, the committee gave careful Members consideration to the fact that Tim Clarke has served nine years During the year and at the date of this report: as a director of the Company as at 3 November 2013.
It is the boards view, in line with that of the committee, that Tim Peter Smith Chairman continues to demonstrate the qualities of independence in Tim Clarke until 11 September 2013 carrying out his role as a non-executive director and as Senior Lord Jay Independent Director, supporting the executive team in an Javier Ferrn from 11 September 2013 objective and independent manner.
The committee will continue to keep the composition of the Key duties board under review in the year ahead and consider and develop In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit plans for orderly succession and progressive refreshing of committees key duties include: theboard.
monitoring the integrity of the groups financial statements The committee also considers the membership of the key and any formal announcements relating to the Companys committees.
During the year, the committee made a performance, reviewing significant financial reporting recommendation to the board that Javier Ferrn be appointed judgements contained in them before their submission as a member of the Audit committee in place of Tim Clarke, to the board for approval: in recognition of Tims length of tenure.
The board approved this recommendation on 11 September 2013. reviewing the groups internal financial controls, including the policies and overall process for assessing established The committee reviewed the time needed to fulfil the roles systems of internal financial control and the timeliness and of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive effectiveness of corrective action taken by management: director and was satisfied, following the conclusion of the annual board performance evaluation, that all members of overseeing the groups arrangements for the prevention the board are devoting sufficient time to their duties.
and detection of fraud, and whistleblowing: The performance of the committee was evaluated as part monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the of the annual board performance evaluation and was found groups internal audit function in the context of the groups to be operating effectively.
overall financial risk management system: and Diversity overseeing the relationship with the groups external The board recognises the benefits of achieving diversity auditors, including reviewing and monitoring their objectivity throughout the groups businesses.
The main focus of debate and independence, and agreeing the scope of their work in the UK recently has been on gender diversity, following the and fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services.
publication of Lord Davies report, Women on Boards in 2011.
The board has continued to follow this important debate on the Governance representation of women in the boardroom and gender diversity The Audit committee comprises a minimum of three members, was, again, a specific area considered in this years board all of whom are independent non-executive directors of the performance evaluation exercise.
Appointments are for a period of three years after which they are subject to It is also recognised that a genuinely diverse board comprises annual review, extendable by two further thee-year periods individuals with a range of personal attributes, perspectives, so long as members continue to be independent.
Accordingly skills, experience and backgrounds, as well as representing TimClarke retired from the committee with effect from differences in nationality, race and gender.
It therefore remains 11September 2013 and Javier Ferrn was appointed on the boards policy to make new appointments based on merit.
It is also the policy of the board that, while candidates for future board appointments will be considered from the widest possible The committee structure requires the inclusion of one pool, executive search agencies will be asked to ensure that half financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative of the candidates they put forward for consideration are women.
Committee of Accountancy Bodies with recent and relevant financial experience.
Currently, the committee chairman fulfils Looking beyond the board to the groups wider workforce, a this requirement.
All committee members are expected to be number of programmes and initiatives have been launched financially literate and to have an understanding of the across the groups businesses since 2011 with the aim of followingareas: overcoming the barriers that women may face in the workplace.
The objective is to run businesses which attract and retain the the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting best female talent by creating a culture which welcomes, including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 53 key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate any significant adjustments to financial reporting arising policies and the groups internal control environment: from theaudit: matters which may influence the presentation of accounts litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and and key figures: potential tax contingencies, compliance with statutory tax the principles of, and developments in, company law, obligations and the groups tax policy.
sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: The committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of and the control environment, controls over financial reporting and the groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: The committee invites the Group Finance Director, Group the external auditors management letters and their Audit Financial Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior committee memoranda: representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant individuals to withdraw.
Other senior managers are invited deficiencies in the financial control environment: to present such reports as are required for the committee reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk to discharge its duties.
management: During the year, the committee held four meetings with the reports on fraud perpetrated against the group: and external auditors without any executive members of the board being present.
the groups approach to IT, cyber security and whistleblowing.
The committee has unrestricted access to Company documents The Audit committee is responsible for the development, and information, as well as to employees of the Company and implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures the external auditors.
on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services, in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
The committee may take independent professional advice These policies are kept under review to meet the objective of on any matters covered by its terms of reference at the ensuring that the group benefits in a cost-effective manner from Companysexpense.
the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditors whilst The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings also ensuring that the auditors maintain the necessary degree to the board.
Consequently, any non-audit work to be undertaken by the auditor in excess of 300,000 The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis requires authorisation by the chairman of the Audit committee as part of the boards performance evaluation process.
and the Group Finance Director prior to its commencement.
The full terms of reference of the Audit committee can be Individual assignments of less than 300,000 are approved by viewed on the Investors section of the Companys website the Group Finance Director.
The aggregate expenditure with www.
the group auditors is reviewed by the Audit committee.
Meetings Typically, the committee will approve the use of the external The Audit committee met four times during the year and has auditors to provide: accounting advice and training: employee an agenda linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
benefit plan audits: corporate responsibility, IT and other assurance services: due diligence in respect of acquisitions Activities during the year and disposals: certain specified tax services including tax In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee compliance, tax planning and related implementation advice: receives and reviews presentations and reports from the and certain other services when it is in the best interests of groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the Company to do so and they can be undertaken without the external auditors.
No individually significant During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim non-audit assignments that would require disclosure were and annual reports and associated announcements.
These undertaken in the financial year.
reviews considered: The Company has a policy that any recruits hired directly from the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the external auditors must be pre-approved by the Group HR the groups financial statements, any proposed changes to Director, and the Group Finance Director or Group Financial them, and the adequacy of their disclosure in the annual report: Controller.
the integrity of the financial statements, including a review The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of important accounting issues, areas of complexity and the of its auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming actions, estimates and judgements of management in relation that they believe they remain independent within the meaning to financial reporting.
The committee had a particular focus of the regulations on this matter and in accordance with their on the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and professional standards.
intangible assets, and the disclosure of restructuring and To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the independence of the closure costs: external auditors, the Audit committee reviewed: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the his findings and recommendations to the Audit committee.
current year: As part of the normal partner rotation arrangements, no changes were necessary in the current year but four divisional a report from the external auditors describing their audit executives were changed last year.
arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and The Audit committee is satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and independence and has not considered the extent of non-audit services provided by the it necessary this year to conduct a tender process for the externalauditors.
Having carried out the review To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the described above and having satisfied itself that the external committee reviewed: auditors remain independent and effective, the Audit committee has recommended to the board that KPMG LLP be appointed the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and as the Companys external auditor for 2013 14.
KPMG Audit Plc variations from it: a fellow KPMG group company has instigated an orderly reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the wind-down of business.
course of the audit: The Audit committee has noted the changes to the UK feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in of each assigned audit team: and September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement contained in the Guidance on Audit Committees to put the external audit a report from the Audit Quality Review Team of the Financial contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The new Code Reporting Council FRC.
became effective for the Company on 15 September 2013 The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external and, as suggested in the FRCs transitional arrangements with auditors after each committee meeting to review key issues respect to audit tendering, it is likely that the Company will put within their sphere of interest and responsibility.
its audit out to tender to coincide with completion of the current five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
The committee will take To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit into account, when determining its tendering arrangements, process, the Audit committee reviewed: the UK Competition Commissions recent decision to introduce the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope mandatory audit tendering at ten-year intervals, and the of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement associated transitional provisions.
letter for the forthcoming year: The total fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for the year ended the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: 14September 2013 were 8.9m of which 2.8m related to non-audit work.
Further details are provided in note 2 to the the external auditors fee proposal: financial statements.
the major issues that arose during the course of the audit Internal audit function and their resolution: The Audit committee is required to assist the board to key accounting and audit judgements: fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the level of errors identified during the audit: and the committeereviewed: recommendations made by the external auditors in their internal audits reporting lines and access to the committee management letters and the adequacy of managements and all members of the board: response.
internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: Consideration is also given by the Audit committee to the need to include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors the results of key audits and other significant findings, the from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution: Although KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys auditor for many years, KPMG periodically changes its audit partners statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and at a group, divisional and country level, in accordance with timeliness of reporting: professional and regulatory standards, in order to protect the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to audit: and the business.
Such changes are carefully planned to ensure that the Company benefits from continuity of staffing without changes since the last annual assessment in the nature incurring undue risk or inefficiency.
and extent of significant financial risks and the groups ability to respond to changes in its business and the Richard Pinckard was appointed as KPMG lead audit partner for external environment.
the financial year ended September 2012 and is expected to continue as lead audit partner until the conclusion of the 2016 The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements audit.
Upon his appointment Mr Pinckard undertook a detailed for an independent external service provider to receive, in review of the external audit arrangements across the group confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal including a review of senior audit executives, and he presented controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit committee as appropriate.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 55 The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital employees and states that all employees have a responsibility expenditure and investment decisions.
These include the for fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should preparation of budgets, appraisal and review procedures and be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the Financial reporting annual general meeting to answer questions on this report, Detailed management accounts are prepared every four matters within the scope of the committees responsibilities weeks, consolidated in a single system and reviewed by senior and any significant matters brought to the committees attention management and the board.
They include a comprehensive set by the external auditors.
of financial reports and key performance indicators covering commercial, operational, environmental and people issues.
Internal control Performance against budgets and forecasts is discussed The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups regularly at board meetings and at meetings between system of internal control to facilitate the identification, operational and group management.
The adequacy and assessment and management of risk, the protection of suitability of key performance indicators is reviewed regularly.
shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors All chief executives and finance directors of the groups recognise that they are responsible for providing a return to operations are asked to sign an annual confirmation that their shareholders, which is consistent with the responsible business has complied with the Group Accounting Manual in assessment and mitigation of risks.
the preparation of consolidated financial statements and Effective controls ensure that the groups exposure to avoidable specifically to confirm the adequacy and accuracy of risk is minimised, that proper accounting records are maintained, accountingprovisions.
that the financial information used within the business is reliable Internal audit and that the consolidated accounts preparation and financial The groups businesses employ internal auditors both reporting processes comply with all relevant regulatory reporting employees and resources provided by Ernst & Young where requirements.
The dynamics of the group and the environment appropriate with skills and experience relevant to the operation within which it operates are continually evolving together with of each business.
All of the internal audit activities are its exposure to risk.
The system is designed to manage, rather co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director of Financial than eliminate, the risk of assets being unprotected and to Control, who is accountable to the Audit committee.
guard against their unauthorised use and the failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide All group businesses are required to comply with the groups reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial control framework that sets out minimum control misstatement or loss.
A key function of the groups internal audit resources is to undertake audits to ensure compliance with the financial The directors confirm that there is a process for identifying, control framework and make recommendations for evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group and the improvement in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also operational effectiveness of the related controls, which has conducts regular reviews to ensure that risk management been in place for the year under review and up to the date of procedures and controls are observed.
The Audit committee approval of the annual report and accounts.
They also confirm receives regular reports on the results of internal audits work that they have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls and monitors the status of recommendations arising.
The utilising the review process set out below.
committee reviews annually the adequacy, qualifications and Standards experience of the groups internal audit resources and the nature There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context of the for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are groups risk management system set out below.
The Director also guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that of Financial Control meets with the chairman of the committee each of the divisions should exercise over specified processes.
as appropriate but at least annually, without the presence of Each business has developed and documented policies and executive management, and has direct access to the Chairman procedures to comply with the minimum control standards of the board.
He also meets at least annually with the Audit established, including procedures for monitoring compliance committee, without the presence of executive management.
The board of each business is required to confirm bi-annually that it has complied with these policies and procedures.
High level controls All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its health, Each business is responsible for its own risk management safety and environmental risks with managers, operators, assessment which is reported to the groups Director of contracting companies and specialist staff working together to Financial Control annually.
Our decentralised business model identify hazards.
Appropriate operational procedures and controls empowers the boards and management of our businesses to are put in place to mitigate risks and all employees are provided identify, evaluate and manage the risks they face on a timely with appropriate information, training and supervision.
Key risks and internal control procedures are reviewed details of our risk mitigation activities can be found in our at group level by the board.
corporate responsibility report at www.
We require all businesses to implement appropriate levels of risk The board reviews annually the material financial and management to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation, non-financial risks facing our businesses and, on a rolling cycle our group health, safety and environment policies, our overriding basis, reviews the effectiveness of the risk management business principles and group policies relating to them, taking process and the resources that our individual businesses into account business needs and local circumstances.
The principal risks currently identified by our businesses and reviewed by the board are: People Issue Risk Mitigation Product safety Reputational damage Food safety is put before economic considerations.
caused by food hygiene Our businesses employ quality control specialists and operate strict policies to or product safety ensure consistently high standards are maintained in our operations and in the incidents.
sourcing and handling of raw materials.
Non-compliance with Food safety systems are regularly reviewed for efficacy and legal compliance.
We participate in independent food health and safety audits.
Quality and food Public concerns over safety audits are undertaken at our manufacturing sites.
materials used in packaging and Documented and tested product recall procedures are embedded in all our ingredients in products.
businesses and are regularly reviewed.
We proactively monitor the regulatory and legislative environment as well as emerging scientific research.
Health and Health concerns over fat, Recipes are regularly reviewed and reformulation is conducted to improve the nutrition salt and calorie content nutritional value of products, with a focus on reducing fat, salt and calorie of foods.
Responding correctly to Our UK Grocery group has signed the UK governments Public Health the spectrum of food Responsibility Deal and associated pledges to reduce salt, remove trans fats poverty and malnutrition and promote healthy eating and lifestyle options to our employees.
All of our grocery products are labelled with nutritional information.
Inappropriate advertising Our UK Grocery portfolio contains only a small number of products specifically to children.
These products are marketed responsibly, following accepted codes of practice and within the parameters of a clear, operational business policy.
We are looking further to continue programmes related to health and nutrition, and to develop partnerships to help educate people about health and nutrition.
Workplace health Potential for fatal Group health and safety policy and practices are embedded with a strong and safety accidents and serious ethos of workplace safety across the group.
We maintain a programme of injuries to employees, audits to verify implementation and support continuous improvement.
Accountable senior executives and specialists are appointed.
Loss of healthy We provide health and safety training and continue to share guidance and best workforce and supply practice with our businesses.
chain due to diseases such as HIV AIDs, TB We have extended the internal and external auditing of health, safety and and malaria in high-risk management reporting.
We continue to invest in health and safety management.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 57 People Issue Risk Mitigation Employee rights Non-compliance with We aim to ensure compliance with the United Nations Universal Declaration internationally of Human Rights in the management of all our businesses.
Employees throughout the group are recruited, trained and rewarded according Inability to recruit and to performance alone.
retain high-calibre people Whistleblowing policy and procedures in place.
at all levels necessary to achieve business We will consider how our approach to managing employee rights can be performance targets shared with principal suppliers.
Maintaining our duty of care to employees, contractors and workers in our supply chain.
Management Failure to plan for Each business has a succession plan which is reviewed with group succession succession to key roles management twice a year, and with the board, annually.
could lead to a lack of Development of our senior managers is co-ordinated by the Group HR Director management continuity and the Head of Executive Development.
and suboptimal operational or financial A small number of executive search companies have been briefed to performance.
introduce us to talented executives from other companies who could add value to the group.
Suppliers and Damage to brands Maintain programme of supplier audits where appropriate.
Extensive audit supply chain caused by supply chain programme for labour standards of suppliers.
reliability weakness, e. g. poor We have introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct which is being implemented conditions for workers.
across all our businesses, tailored to their requirements.
Problems with supply We continue to work, in partnership with suppliers and NGOs, to improve reliability caused by working conditions, e. g. via training.
natural disasters and other incidents.
Refocus on worker safety and safe working conditions.
We have built up an intensive programme of ethical audits in Primarks supply chain.
Understanding the sustainability and Primark has maintained its classification as a leader, by the Ethical Trade responsible business Initiative, and we are mapping second tier suppliers subcontractors.
practices of our The Grocery division conducted an independent review of the environmental suppliers.
and ethical risks in its supply chains to increase understanding.
External communication and transparency on the management of our supply chain in Primark and Grocery has been enhanced.
Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are regularly reviewed.
Ethical business Unacceptable business All businesses are signed up to the groups Business Principles and practices practices which Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
contravene our Business A programme of training and compliance has been implemented for Principles.
Reputational damage Appointment of anti-bribery and corruption specialists.
through the irresponsible business practices of Businesses work co-operatively to ensure visibility of reputational risk within individuals.
supply chains and draw upon best practice management expertise across the group including Primark and Twinings.
Penalties imposed through bribery, corruption or unfair competition.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Environment Issue Risk Mitigation Environment Long-term increase in energy prices.
Compliance with the groups Environment Policy and management annual reporting of environmental impact.
Physical threats to operations from including climate climate change, e. g. flooding.
Best available techniques are employed to reduce energy change consumption statutory requirement for all sites subject Climate change impact altering growth to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime.
rates of raw materials we use.
Agricultural raw materials are sourced from a wide range Increasing cost to operations to adapt of geographical locations and suppliers.
to climate change and mitigate impact.
We have a continued focus on reducing our environmental Negative impact on the environment impact and implementing changes to our operations to and the communities which depend maximise opportunities such as recycling more waste and on land used by our operations.
using more renewable sources of fuel.
We have implemented infrastructural protections against weather-related risks such as floods.
Measuring and reporting our Greenhouse Gas emissions for the group in 2014.
Measuring the CO2e emissions of our transport for the first time.
Substantial investment is made to improve environmental risk management, with a focus on reducing CO2e emissions when investing in new capital projects.
Air pollution Unacceptable impact on environment.
Establish effective procedures across our business to contain or minimise emissions.
Offence caused to local communities by emissions to air from factories.
Plant and process changes are assessed in advance before authorisation is sought.
Comply with emission standards in country of operation, as a minimum.
Continue to monitor procedures and swiftly redress non-compliance.
Disposal of waste Legal sanction and reputational damage Responsibility is assigned to senior executives in all and effluent because of non-compliance with businesses and specialists employed.
Comply with regulations and licences.
standards in country of operation, as a minimum.
Negative impact on the local environment.
Groupwide focus on segregating all waste so that more can be reused or recycled wherever practicable.
Work with Managing quality of water discharge.
waste contractors to help us measure the amount of waste Increasing cost of waste and managing disposed or sent for beneficial use.
Improvements in the packaging of our products resulting in less waste.
Continued investment in our effluent treatment plants and the treatment of waste water.
Our UK Grocery group supports the Courtauld 2 Commitment to reduce packaging waste, the Food and Drink Federation Fivefold Environmental Ambition and the Institute of Grocery Distribution Water Savings Initiative.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 59 Environment Issue Risk Mitigation Water use and Securing access to sources of water Water-intensive sites in areas of water stress identified, availability and maintaining water availability for all.
and efforts focused on water reduction in these areas.
Ensuring good practices in sharing and Investing heavily in the quality of our water usage data to managing water supplies with local enable improved measurement and management of water communities.
Potential increasing cost of water.
Operating in water stress areas.
We published our first Water Disclosure in 2013 to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Illovo published its first Water Disclosure in 2012.
Look to build long-term partnerships to address water issues at a local level.
Finalise the standardised approach to water measurement across the group so that we can target investment and build an effective water risk management programme.
Resource efficiency Unnecessary costs from inefficient use Use of raw materials optimised.
Use of packaging minimised consistent with food safety Maintaining a sustainable supply of raw and product protection.
Fuel consumption in transport is minimised.
Use of commodities Damage to the environment and Group commitment that all businesses will use Certified such as palm oil, communities reliant on commodities.
Sustainable or Identity Preserved palm oil by 2015. soya and cocoa Damage to the reputation of the business Membership of various industry bodies to collaborate from unsustainable sourcing of certain on solutions including the Roundtable on Responsible commodities.
Twinings is a founder member of the Ethical TeaPartnership.
Commissioned independent assessment of commodity and country risks.
Planning review of suppliers and sourcing strategy for certain high risk commodities.
Genetically modified Consumer concern over use of GM Continue to label all food containing genetically GM crops foodingredients.
Continue to monitor consumer trends.
Consultation with other businesses, governments and industry bodies regarding GM products and undertake further research to gain deeper insight into the issue.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Financial and regulatory Issue Risk Mitigation Competition rules Penalties for failing to comply with 1998 Clear policy direction and close support from specialist Competition Act, the 2003 Enterprise Act, in-house legal department.
relevant EU law and all relevant Compulsory awareness training.
Global economic Demand for our products declines due Mitigated by diversity of business portfolio and slowdown and to uncertainty over economic outlook geographic reach.
changing consumer and impact on disposable incomes.
Substantial investment in research and development, demand product quality, advertising and promotion, and focus on cost management.
Financial, currency Loss sustained as a result of failure of Adherence to the groups financial control framework and commodity risks internal controls or fraud, and exposure and anti-fraud policy.
to foreign currencies, interest rates, Treasury operations are conducted within a framework counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk, of board-approved policies and guidelines.
and changes in market prices especially for energy and commodities.
Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and committed bank facilities, which are renewed or extended on a timely basis, having regard to the groups projected funding needs.
Financial transactions are dealt through financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to financial instruments and associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures are set out in note 24 on pages 113 to 123.
Tax compliance Failure to comply with local tax law The group has a financial control framework and a board resulting in underpayment of tax and adopted tax policy requiring all businesses to comply fully exposure to related interest and penalties.
with all relevant local tax law.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Any interest and penalties on tax issues are provided for in the tax charge.
IT security breach Data loss or theft.
Group IT Security policies and procedures are rolled out across the businesses.
Employee awareness campaigns are undertaken to highlight key activities to minimise IT security risks.
Technical security controls are in place over key ITplatforms.
An experienced Head of IT Security has been appointed.
He is tasked with identifying security risks and working with the businesses to implement mitigating controls.
Internal audit reviews of compliance with policies and procedures are undertaken.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 D irectors report | Governance | Corporate governance 61 Financial and regulatory Issue Risk Mitigation Loss of a major site The loss of one of our key sites could Our businesses have in place business continuity plans to present significant operational difficulties.
manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
Regulatory and Failure to recognise political or cultural We remain vigilant to future changes and the risk presented political differences in the many countries in which by operating in emerging markets.
we operate could directly impact the We engage with governments and NGOs to ensure the success of our operations.
views of our stakeholders are represented and we try to Proposals to end sugar quotas in 2017. anticipate, and contribute to, important changes in publicpolicy.
Our financial control requirements are consistently applied wherever we operate.
Major capital Risk of overspending initial cost estimates, All major projects are managed by dedicated teams who projects and overrunning construction timelines and work in close liaison with business management.
acquisitions failure to meet design specifications.
Project plans are reviewed and approved by group management and, for larger projects, by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout the project.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
