SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report Ian Barlow Internal Audit Agreeing internal audit plans and reviewing reports of internal auditwork Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
External Audit Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor Monitoring and reviewing the independence and performance of Dear Shareholder, theexternal auditor and evaluating their effectiveness I am pleased to present the first Audit Committee Report prepared in Making recommendations to the Board for the appointment or accordance with the newly revised Corporate Governance Code, in re-appointment of the externalauditor.
whichthe role of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year aredescribed in more detail than in previous years.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee describe our role andresponsibilities more fully and can be found on our website at The role of the Audit Committee is to undertake an independent www.
assessment of the financial affairs of the Company, to review the nancialstatements and to ensure that there is a sound system of financial control throughout the Group.
Whilst the Board as a whole Activities of the Audit Committee in 2013 and since isresponsible for approving the financial results, we undertake the theyear end detailedwork to support that decision.
In 2013, we held five physical meetings and three meetings by telephone.
Each meeting was attended by all members of the Committee.
The Chief Composition of the Audit Committee Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer, Head of Internal Audit, the I am Chairman of the Audit Committee and Brian Larcombe, Richard fide external auditor and key finance personnel also attended by invitation.
Schutter and Joseph Papa are members of the Committee.
We are all We also met theexternal auditor without management present.
independent Non-executive Directors and served on the Committee Our programme of work in 2013 is set out below and took the following throughout 2013.
Richard fide Schutter will be retiring from the Board and format: As part of our review of the financial statements and the quarterly the Audit Committee following the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The announcements, we reviewed managements judgements applied Board has determined that, as a Chartered Accountant and former inanumber of areas including the valuation of inventories, liability SeniorPartner, London at KPMG, I am the designated financial expert.
provisioning, impairment, retirement bene t obligations, trade receivables, taxation and business combinations.
Thematters of Role of the Audit Committee judgement and our processes and conclusions are described in Our work falls into the following five areas: greaterdetail below.
During the year we received reports from the Group Treasurer, Head of Financial reporting Tax, Chief Information Of cer CIO and Chief Business Development Of cer.
All of these were focused on the risk management in these Reviewing signi cant financial reporting judgements and accounting functions.
The CIOs report had a particular emphasis on cyber security.
policies and compliance with accounting standards The Committee was satis ed that each function has evaluated the risks it Ensuring the integrity of the financial statements and their is managing and has effective processes in place to mitigate and respond compliancewith UK and US statutory requirements to those risks.
We also had reports from the Heads of Quality Assurance Ensuring the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and and of Risk Assurance and had two dedicated discussions on the understandable and recommending their adoption by the Board Groups risk management during the year: first to review the Groups risk Monitoring announcements relating tothe Groups management procedures and risk maps asa basis for sign off on the nancialperformance.
Annual Report and Accounts: the second in September as part of the Boards annual strategy meeting to review the Boards attitude to risk Internal Controls and Risk Management andassessment of the high level strategic risks.
Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with In light of the changes in UK reporting regulations we continued to review the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the Sarbanes-Oxley the style, format and content of the Annual Report and Accounts paying Act, speci cally sections 302 and 404 particular attention to the changes in the Corporate Governance Code and reporting regulations.
We also revised our Terms of Reference to take Reviewing the operation of the Groups risk management processes account of these changes.
and the control environment over financial, regulatory and quality risks.
Since the year end, we have reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts for2013 and have concluded that taken as a whole they are fair, balanced Fraud and Whistle-blowing and understandable and have advised the full Board accordingly.
In Receiving reports on the processes in place to prevent fraud and to coming to this conclusion, we have considered the description of the enable whistle-blowing Groups strategy and key risks, the key elements of thebusiness model which is set out on page 7, and the key performance indicators and their If required, receiving reports of fraud incidents.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 59 Signi cant matters related to the financial statements We considered the following key areas of judgement in relation to the 2013 accounts and at each reporting quarter end, which we discussed in all cases with management and the external auditor: Area of judgement Our action Valuation of inventories A feature of the Advanced Surgical Devices divisions business model At each quarter end we received reports from and discussed with whose nished goods inventory makes up almost 80% of the Group total management and the external auditor the level of provisioning nished goods inventory is the high level of product inventory required, andmaterial areas at risk.
Provisioning averaged 26% during the year some of which is located at customer premises and is available for 27% during 2012.
We concluded that the proposed levels customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and were appropriate.
small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
Liability provisioning The recognition of provisions forlegal disputes is subject to a signi cant As members of the Board, we receive regular updates from the Chief degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is Legal Of cer.
These updates form the basis for the level of provisioning.
considered probable that an adverse outcome will occur and theamount These havenot moved materially during the year and we determined that of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
In making its estimates, theproposed levels at year end of $86m in 2013 $80m in 2012 were management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal appropriate in the circumstances.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to re ect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings or settlement negotiations or if new facts come to light.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is anissue where management and legal judgements are important.
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and We reviewed managements reports on the key assumptions with respect property, plant and equipment, a number of signi cant assumptions to goodwill and investment in associates particularly the forecast future haveto be made when preparing cash ow projections.
These include cash ows and discount rates used to make these calculations.
We have the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market demand for also considered the disclosure surrounding these reviews and concluded the products acquired, the future pro tability of acquired businesses or it was appropriate.
products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
Ifactual results should differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
Retirement Bene ts Obligations A number of key judgements have tobe made in calculating the fair value We received quarterly reports from management setting out the of the Groups fide ned bene t pension plans.
These assumptions affect movement in the key assumptions for the principal pension schemes the balance sheet liability, operating pro t and other finance income inthe Group and the financial impact of these movements.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and mortality movement in the assumptions or movement in the underlying scheme assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
In making assets and liabilities was discussed with management.
Details of the these judgements, management takes into account the advice of assumptions used are set out in Note 18 of the Notes to the Group professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions accounts.
Following these discussions weconcluded that the againstexternal data.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee Report continued Area of judgement Our action Trade receivables Guidance was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in early 2012 on Each quarter we received reports from management containing key responding to increased country and currency risk particularly in metricswith regard to receivables with additional focus on receivables Southern Europe.
We discussed the risk associated with trade receivables in Southern Europe and the level of provisioning and concluded that the stated values were appropriate.
Taxation Provisioning for potential current tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax We annually review our system and principles for management of tax asset recognition in relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned risks.
We review quarterly reports from management evaluating existing by a range of judgements.
We also consider reports from our external auditor before determining that the levels of provisions was appropriate.
Business combinations The Group has identi ed growth through acquisitions as one of For completed acquisitions, we received a report from management itsStrategic Priorities and over the past 12 months we have made setting out the signi cant assets and liabilities acquired, details of the acquisitions in Turkey, India andBrazil.
provisional fair value adjustments applied, an analysis of the intangible assets acquired, the assumptions behind the valuation of these acquired intangible assets, and the proposed useful economic life of each intangible asset class.
These reports were reviewed and, following discussion, approved.
We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process and External Auditor the quality of the audit.
The review covered the following: The independence of our external auditor is critical for the integrity ofthe The audit partners with particular focus on the lead audit engagement audit.
We therefore have an Auditor Independence Policy which ensures partner: that this independence is maintained, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
This governs our approach when we require our The skills and experience of the audit team: external auditor to carry out non-audit services, and all such services are The planning and scope of the audit and identi cation of areas of strictly governed by this policy.
During 2013, fees paid to Ernst & Young audit risk: LLP, our external auditor, for non-audit work totalled $3m which equates The execution of the audit: to 44% of the total audit fees.
Full details are shown in Note 3.2 of the The role of management in the audit process: Notes to the Group accounts.
The quality of communication between the external auditor and the The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding the audit committee: audit partner rotation.
This year marks the fifth and final year for our audit The quality of their regular reports on accounting matters, governance partner, Les Clifford, who will be replaced for 2014 by Andrew Walton.
and control: Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years have expired since their previous involvement with the Group.
The support provided by the external auditor to the audit committee: No such recruitment has occurred.
We consider the implementation of The contribution made by the external auditor towards insights and this policy helps ensure that auditor objectivity and independence added value: is safeguarded.
The reputation and standing of the external auditor: The independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and The quality of the formal report to Shareholders.
We conducted this review as part of the 2013 year-end process.
The views of each member of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Vice President Group Finance and key members of the finance management team at Group and divisional level were sought.
We considered the feedback from this process and shared it with the external auditor and with management.
During the year, we considered the inspection reports from the Audit Oversight Boards in the UK and US, speci cally the: Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Inspections Annual Report 2012 13 and Public Report on the 2012 inspection of Ernst & Young LLP: and The US based Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards Report on the 2012 inspection of Ernst & Young LLP.
We also reviewed the fees of the external auditor which benchmarked well against groups of comparable size and complexity.
Our conclusions were that the external audit was carried out effectively, ef ciently and with the necessary objectivity and independence.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 61 Tender of External Audit Services Risk Management and Internal Control Ernst & Young or its predecessors have been our external auditor since On behalf of the Board we reviewed the system of internal financial we listed in 1937.
We have regularly reviewed the provision of external control and satis ed ourselves that we are meeting required standards audit services and because we have been satis ed with the quality and both for the year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date of approval cost of the work undertaken by Ernst & Young, we have not considered of this Annual Report.
No concerns were raised with us in 2013 about itnecessary to tender the appointment.
We are however mindful of the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
recent changes introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, In coming to this conclusion: the prospective new requirements of the Competition Commission to We received regular reports from the internal audit function on their tender regularly, the imminent changes being progressed by the findings from the reviews undertaken throughout the year both from European Parliament for periodic mandatory rotation of auditors and the aninternal audit perspective and also with regard to compliance with views of some of our Shareholders regarding the length of tenure of our the Sarbanes Oxley Act external auditor.
We recognise that now is the time to consider putting the external audit out to tender.
We chose not to do this in 2013 given the We requested and reviewed a report mapping Group level risks and veryrecent appointment of Julie Brown as Chief Financial Of cer.
We related control assurance have however decided that following the Annual General Meeting in We requested various reports from management relating to speci c 2014, wewill go outto tender in 2014 with a view to appointing a new risks identi ed through the risk management process including the external auditor, orre-appointing Ernst & Young as external auditor, for progress of the European Process Optimisation project integration of theyear ending 31 December 2015. enterprise reporting systems in Europe and the risks inherent in our programme of business acquisitions.
In addition the Board conducted As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I shall lead this process on a workshop on cyber security.
behalfofthe Board supported by Julie Brown and senior members of her financial management.
When we have made a decision regarding Our Risk Management Framework is underpinned by Business and theappointment of the external auditor, we shall make an appropriate Functional risk registers that highlight the risks identi ed and the announcement to the market.
probability and impact of risk to the Group, as well as mitigation plans.
The most signi cant of these risks are considered by the Group Risk Committee for inclusion on a Group Risk Register.
The effectiveness of this Framework is reviewed annually by Internal Audit and our Committee.
Internal Audit Our Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee and Yours sincerely carries out work in three areas: our financial systems and processes: our systems that ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct, regulation and laws: and our quality managements systems in our manufacturing activities.
In all three areas they act as a third line of defence behind operational managements front line and our own assurance activities.
During the year they completed 58 reviews, the results of which were reviewed by the Committee which also oversees the effective and timely remediation of any recommendations.
The Committee receives a Ian Barlow quarterly report detailing any un-remediated and overdue control recommendations.
Chairman of the Audit Committee We are keen to ensure that this vital function develops with the increasingscale and complexity of the business.
With regards to newacquisitions speci cally, the function will perform an audit on the Groups Acquisition Due Diligence process followed by site speci c audits on new acquisitions to ensure integration efforts are in line with approved plans.
We will continue to monitor Internal Audits scope of workand operational methods to ensure it plays a full role in providing assurance of the Groupsidenti cation and management of risk and its associated controls.
