SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement BOARD GENDER BOARD NATIONALITY BOARD BALANCE NEW ZEALAND CHAIRMAN 1 1 FEMALE INDIAN AMERICAN EXECUTIVE 3 1 3 DIRECTORS MALE 2 9 FRENCH 1 12 12 12 ITALIAN 1 BRITISH NON-EXECUTIVE 5 DIRECTORS 9 BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Nomination & Ethics & Audit Governance Compliance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 8 meetings 8 meetings 5 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings Sir John Buchanan 8 5 Olivier Bohuon 8 5 Ian Barlow 8 8 Julie Brown i 8 Michael Friedman ii 6 Baroness Virginia Bottomley 8 5 Pamela Kirby 8 4 5 Brian Larcombe iii 8 8 5 4 Joseph Papa 8 8 4 5 Ajay Piramal iv 3 Roberto Quarta v 1 Richard fide Schutter 8 8 5 4 5 i Appointed to the Board on 4 February 2013. ii Appointed to the Board on 11 April 2013. iii Unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to an unforeseen commitment.
iv Unable to attend some meetings due to other commitments.
To retire from the Board following the Annual General Meeting on 10 April 2014. v Appointed to the Board on 4 December 2013.
COMPANY SECRETARY Susan Swabey 52 Susan was appointed Company Secretary in May 2009.
Susan has 30 years experience as a company secretary in a wide range of companies including Prudential plc, Amersham plc and RMC Group plc.
Her work has covered Board support, corporate governance, corporate transactions, share registration, listing obligations, corporate social responsibility, pensions, insurance and employee and executive share plans.
Susan is a member of theGC100 Group Executive Committee and the CBICompanies Committee and is a frequent speaker on corporate governance related matters.
With effect from 1 March 2014, she will be a trustee of ShareGift, the share donation charity.
Nationality British GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 49 Chief Executive Of cer Compliance statement We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and Developing and implementing Group strategy comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Recommending the annual budget and five-year strategic and 2012 theCode.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed financial plan on the NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group as to the US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the SEC and NYSE Managing the Groups risk pro le and establishing effective internal except that the Nomination & Governance Committee is not comprised controls wholly of Independent Directors, as required by the NYSE, but consists Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive ofa majority of Independent Directors in accordance with the Code.
team and planning for succession Weshall explain in this corporate governance statement and the Reports Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and updated of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, how we have applied the regarding key matters provisions andprinciples of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the Board Listing Rules, Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTR and the Code accordingly throughout the year.
Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters.
Board The Board is responsible for determining the strategy of the Company.
The Non-executive Directors meet regularly prior to each Board meeting The Chief Executive Of cer and his Executive team implement that without management in attendance.
The roles of Non-executive Directors strategy.
More detail about the structure of the Board, the matters we deal and, in particular, the Senior Independent Director are fide ned as follows: with and the key activities we undertook in 2013 is on pages 49 and 50.
Non-executive Directors Changes to Board composition Providing effective challenge to management We are making a number of changes to the composition of our Board at Assisting in development of strategy the Annual General Meeting: Serving on the Board Committees.
Sir John Buchanan will be retiring from the Board, having joined the Board in 2005 and assumed the role of Chairman in April 2006 Roberto Quarta, who joined the Board as Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director Chairman Elect on 4 December 2013, will become Chairman, assuming Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman that he is elected as a Director by shareholders at the meeting Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman on Board-related Richard fide Schutter will retire from the Board.
Richard has served on matters the Board since January 2001 as a Non-executive Director and a member of a number of the Board Committees.
He has been the Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary Senior Independent Director since April 2011 Available to Shareholders on matters which cannot otherwise Brian Larcombe will take over as Senior Independent Director to assist beresolved a smooth transition between Chairmen Leading annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness Ajay Piramal will retire from the Board.
He has served on the Board Leading search for a new Chairman, as necessary.
Independence of Non-executive Directors Roles of Directors We require our Non-executive Directors to remain independent from Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, management so that they are able to exercise independent oversight some of our roles have been fide ned in greater detail.
In particular, the andeffectively challenge management.
We therefore continually assess roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer the independence of each of our Non-executive Directors.
The Executive areclearly fide ned.
Directors have determined that all our Non-executive Directors are independent in accordance with both UK and US requirements.
None of Chairman our Non-executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group.
None of them receives additional Building a well balanced Board remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor do they participate in the Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agendas Groups share plans or pension schemes.
None of them serve as Ensuring effectiveness of the Board and ensuring annual review directors of any companies or af liates in which any other Director undertaken isa director.
Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective However, more importantly, each of our Non-executive Directors is communication between the Board members prepared to question and challenge management, to request more Promoting effective Board relationships information and to ask the dif cult question.
They insist on robust responses both within the Board room and sometimes between Board Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes meetings.
The Chief Executive Of cer is open to challenge from the Ensuring effective two way communication and debate with Non-executive Directors and uses this positively to provide more detail Shareholders and to re ect further on issues.
Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters Promoting high standards of corporate governance Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued As explained, Richard fide Schutter will retire from the Board following the Performance Annual General Meeting.
Brian Larcombe, who has served for 12 years, Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial and will remain on the Board as Senior Independent Director to ensure a business plans smooth transition between chairmen.
Pamela Kirby who has served for 12 years will remain on the Board as Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board internal control believes that the skills, diversity and experience Brian and Pamela bring Determining dividend policy and dividend recommendations to the Board with their in-depth knowledge of the Company are important Approving the appointment and removal of the Auditor and other for continuity in this time of transition.
professional advisers and approving signi cant changes to We are mindful that some of our Non-executive Directors have served on accounting policies or practices the Board for a period of time that some might regard as likely to impact Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee their independence.
We do not believe this to be the case, but have and executive incentive plans.
reviewed the length of service of our Non-executive Board members and have taken this into consideration, when making the changes to the Risk Board composition outlined above.
We continue to search for other suitable Non-executive Directors, whose Determining risk appetite, regularly reviewing risk register and risk experience will align with our strategic objectives and, in due course, our management processes see pages 3841 for more detail.
longer serving directors will step down.
Shareholder Communications Board Membership Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, annual Non-executive Chairman Sir John Buchanan to retire on report, half yearly report, quarterly financial announcements, the 10 April 2014 release of price sensitive announcements and any listing particulars, Chief Executive Of cer Olivier Bohuon circulars or prospectuses Chief Financial Of cer Julie Brown appointed 4 February 2013.
Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with Shareholders.
Nine Independent Non-executive Directors Richard fide Schutter Senior Independent Director Key activities in 2013 to retire on 10 April 2014 in addition to regular annual activities Ian Barlow Review and oversight of the implementation of the strategy and Baroness Virginia Bottomley organisational structure Michael Friedman appointed 11 April 2013 Oversight of risk management process and review of strategic risk Pamela Kirby Approval of five-year plan Brian Larcombe to become Senior Independent Director on 10 April 2014 Review of Board effectiveness Continued review of Board composition and appointment of Joseph Papa MichaelFriedman and Roberto Quarta to the Board Ajay Piramal to retire on 10 April 2014 Consideration and approval of the acquisitions of Sushrut-Adler RobertoQuarta appointed on 4 December 2013.
Independenton inIndia, Plato Grup in Turkey and Politec Saude and Pro Cirurgia appointment to become Chairman on 10 April 2014.
Especializada in Brazil Approval and oversight of European Process Optimisation programme Role of the Board Six physical scheduled meetings and two scheduled telephone Strategy meetings Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate Four day strategy review and visit to our Tokyo headquarters and management structure, acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital Two day visit to our US operations in Andover, Massachusetts transactions over $10m, annual budget, financial plan, business Considered and approved the Capital Allocation Framework plan, major borrowings and finance and banking arrangements Considered and reviewed succession planning both at Board level Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board, and below overseeing succession planning and the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary Approved the sustainability policy and report.
Approving Group policies relating to corporate social responsibility, health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and other matters.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 51 Board Development Programme Board Effectiveness Review Our Board Development Programme is directed to the speci c needs and We conduct an annual review into the effectiveness of the Board.
In 2012, interests of our Directors.
We focus the development sessions on the review was facilitated externally and drew positive conclusions.
In facilitating a greater awareness and understanding of our business rather 2013 therefore, we undertook an internal review, which was led by than formal training in what it is to be a Director.
We value our visits to the Richard fide Schutter, the Senior Independent Director.
different Smith & Nephew sites around the world, where we meet with The review in 2013 consisted of a questionnaire followed by a series of the local managers of our businesses and see the daily operations interviews with the Directors towards the end of the year.
Meeting our local managers helps us to understand the questionnaire was based on the internal questionnaire used in 2011 challenges they face and their plans to meet those challenges.
We also enabling a comparison to be made between the two years.
The take the opportunity to look at our products and in particular the new interviews with the Directors were broadly based on the questionnaire products being developed by our R&D teams.
This direct contact with the but also covered any other matters the Directors wished to raise.
business in the locations we operate around the world really helps us to make investment and strategic decisions.
Meeting our local managers Mr fide Schutter presented the results of his findings to the Board in early helps us when making succession planning decisions below Board level.
Overall, the review concluded that the performance of the Board had improved since the previous internal review particularly in During the course of the year, we receive updates at the Board and evaluating performance against the long-term strategic plan, identifying Committee meetings on external corporate governance changes likely and monitoring strategic risks and gaining a better understanding of the toimpact the Company in the future.
In 2013, we particularly focused on competitive environment.
Non-executive Directors also valued the changes to Narrative Reporting and Reporting on Remuneration.
We meetings they held without management present, ahead of each Board alsolooked into the implications of cyber security on the business.
and some Committee meetings as well as the opportunity to meet senior New Directors receive tailored induction programmes, when they join the executives below Board level on site visits and at Board presentations.
In 2013, Michael Friedman attended a brie ng on UK company The review identi ed the following areas that would require attention in lawand corporate governance practices.
He also attended a series of 2014: one-to-one meetings with senior members of management at our head of ce.
Roberto Quarta has commenced his induction programme, Areas for Attention meeting the leaders of key divisions and functions and visiting our key The Board was currently in transition with the retirement of Sir John site in Hull.
All Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit our Buchanan as Chairman, Richard fide Schutter as Senior Independent overseas businesses, if they happen to be travelling for other purposes.
Director and Ajay Piramal as Non-executive Director following the Annual In 2013, visits of this nature were made to operations in the US, Singapore General Meeting.
It was therefore recognised that Succession Planning at and India.
Our local management teams enjoy welcoming Non-executive Non-executive Director level would be a key priority for the new Directors to their business and it emphasises the interest the Board takes Chairman, Roberto Quarta, after the Annual General Meeting.
It was felt that the number, timing and length of the Board and Committee The following development sessions were run during 2013: meetings could be reviewed to consider whether the current pattern of Month Activity meetings was most effective.
April Presentation from Roger Teasdale, President, Advanced It is expected that the review in 2014 will be facilitated externally.
Wound Management on the Advanced Wound Management business and progress of the integration Company Secretary and independent advice of the Biotherapeutics business.
The Company Secretary, Susan Swabey, is responsible to the Board July Audit Committee Development Session open to all the forensuring that we comply with all corporate governance requirements Board covering developments in the accounting and and are kept updated on our responsibilities.
We all have access to her, reporting landscape including narrative reporting, the individually and collectively.
Financial Reporting Council changes to Audit Committee and Auditor reporting, cyber security and other UK and We may also, from time to time, obtain independent professional advice, European developments.
at the Companys expense, if we judge it necessary in order to ful l our responsibilities as Directors.
If we are unable to attend a Board meeting September Visit to our Tokyo of ces with a presentation from senior or Board Committee meeting, we ensure that we are familiar with the Japanese management on the local business and matters to be discussed and make our views known to the Chairman or challenges faced.
the Chairman of the relevant Committee prior to the meeting.
Presentations from the entire Executive team as part ofthe Boards Strategy Review.
Management of con icts of interest Board discussion on Risk as part of the Boards None of us, nor our connected persons, has any family relationship with Strategy discussions.
any other Director or of cer, nor has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are, or were, a party during October Visitto Advanced Surgical Devices facility in the year or up to 24 February 2014.
Each of us has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation Series of presentations from our Advanced Surgical in which we have or may have a direct or indirect interest that con icts or Devices senior executives on the challenges faced by might con ict with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition the business, our strategy and initiatives to meet these tothe existing duty that we owe to the Company to disclose to the Board challenges and an update on progress made since the any transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
Ifwe become aware of any situation which may give rise to a con ict of December Workshop on cyber security.
interest, we inform the rest of the Board immediately and the Board is then permitted under the Articles of Association to authorise such con ict.
The information is recorded in the Companys Register of Con icts together with the date on which authorisation was given.
Inaddition, we certify, on an annual basis, that the information containedinthe Register is correct.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a con ict, only the The Companys website www.
com contains information Directors who have no interest in the matter are able to participate in the of interest to both institutional investors and private Shareholders, discussion and a con ict is only authorised if we believe that it would not including financial information and webcasts of the results presentations have an impact on our ability to promote the Companys success in the to analysts for each quarter, as well as speci c information for private long term.
Additionally, we may, as a Board, determine that certain limits Shareholders relating to the management of their shareholding.
or conditions must be imposed when giving authorisation.
We have identi ed no actual con icts which have required approval by the Board.
Share capital We have, however, identi ed six situations which could potentially give As at 24 February 2014, the Companys total issued share capital with rise to a con ict and these have been duly authorised by the Board and voting rights consisted of 893,814,245 ordinary shares of 20.0 US cents are reviewed on an annual basis.
25,122,968ordinary shares are held in treasury and are not included in the above gure.
Further information on treasury shares Re-appointment of Directors canbe found in Note 19 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors, offer themselves to As at 24 February 2014, noti cation had been received from the Shareholders for re-election annually, except those who are retiring undernoted investors under the DTR in respect of interests in 3% or following the Annual General Meeting.
Roberto Quarta who was moreof the issued ordinary shares with voting rights of the Company.
appointed to the Board on 4 December 2013 will offer himself for election.
Each Director may be removed at any time by the Board Number of Shares % ortheShareholders.
Invesco 66,740,225 7.5 Directors Indemnity Arrangements BlackRock, Inc. 42,621,011 4.8 Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and of cers liability In addition to the above the Company is aware that Walter Scott & insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the Partners Limited hold approximately 37.7 million ordinary shares 4.2%.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any person who has a signi cant Company indemni es Directors in respect of any proceedings brought by direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company and is not aware of third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors of the any persons holding securities which may control the Company.
The Company would also fund ongoing costs in defending a are no securities in issue which have special rights as to the control of legal action as they are incurred rather than after judgement has been the Company.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in an action against them, individual Directors would be liable to repay the Company for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extent funded by Dividend the Company.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 17.0 US cents per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 10.40 US cents, makes Liaison with Shareholders a total for 2013 of 27.40 US cents.
The final dividend is expected to be paid, subject to Shareholder approval, on 7 May 2014 to Shareholders The Executive Directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the onthe Register of Members at the close of business on 22 April 2014.
Companys business and financial performance both at the time of the announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2013, the Executive Directors held meetings with institutional investors, Annual General Meeting including investors representing approximately 43% of the share The Companys Annual General Meeting is to be held on 10 April 2014 capitalas at 31 December 2013. at2:00 pm at No.
Registered As part of this programme of investor meetings, during 2013, as Shareholders have been sent either a Notice of Annual General Meeting Chairmanof the Company, I met with investors representing 16% or noti cation of availability of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Over the last three years, I have met investors representing in aggregate 21% of the share capital.
Also during 2013, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Of cers Joseph Papa met with Shareholders holding 20% of the share capital to We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Of cers, which discuss remuneration policies and plans.
In addition, we contacted a isavailable free of charge on the Groups website www.
further three Shareholders representing 8% of the share capital com and on request.
This applies to the Chief Executive Of cer, Chief summarising the discussions held with the Shareholders we had met.
Financial Of cer, Vice President, Group Finance and the Groups senior We receive a short report at every Board meeting reviewing our major financial of cers.
Therehave been no waivers to any of the Codes Shareholders and any signi cant changes in their holdings since the provisions nor any amendments made to the Code during 2013 or previous meeting.
Olivier Bohuon and Julie Brown routinely advise us of upuntil 24 February 2014. any concerns or issues that Shareholders have raised with them in their meetings.
We also receive copies of analysts reports on the Company and our peers between Board meetings.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 53 We, as a Board, are responsible overall for reviewing and approving the Internal controls adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and the Evaluation of Internal Controls Procedures system of internal controls over financial, operational including quality management and ethical compliance processes operated by the Group.
Management is responsible forestablishing and maintaining adequate We have delegated responsibility for this review to the Audit Committee.
internal control over financial reporting as fide ned in Rule 13a-15 f and The Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit function reviews the 15d-15 f under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. adequacy and effectiveness of internal control procedures and identi es There is an established system of internal control throughout the Group any weaknesses and ensures these are remediated within agreed and our Divisions.
The main elements of the internal control framework timelines.
The latest review covered the financial year to 31 December are as follows: 2013 and included the period up to the approval of this Annual Report.
The main elements of this annual review are as follows: The management of each Division is responsible for the establishment and review of effective internal financial controls within their Division.
The Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure The Group Finance Manual sets out, amongst other things, financial controls and procedures as at 31 December 2013.
Based upon this and accounting policies and minimum internal financial evaluation, the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer control standards.
concluded on 24 February 2014 that the disclosure controls and The Internal Audit function agrees an annual work plan and scope of procedures were effective as at 31 December 2013. work with the Audit Committee.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate The Audit Committee reviewed reports from Internal Audit on their internal control over financial reporting.
Management assessed the findings on internal financial controls.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2013 in accordance with the requirements in the US The Audit Committee reviews the Group Whistle-blower procedures.
under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In making this assessment, The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Vice President, they used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Group Finance and the Heads of the Taxation and Treasury functions.
Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework.
Based on their assessment, management This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather than concluded and reported that, as at 31 December 2013, the Groups eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic and business internal control over financial reporting is effective based on objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance those criteria.
against material misstatement or loss.
Because of inherent limitations, Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee ourinternal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
In addition, our projections of any evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that controls may Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting rm become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree issued an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
This reporting as at 31 December 2013.
This report appears on page 91. process complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and additionally contributes to our compliance with the obligations under the SarbanesOxley Act 2002 and other internal assurance activities.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued The Auditor Corporate headquarters and registered of ce Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as the The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered of ce Auditor.
Resolutions proposing their re-appointment for 2014 and to address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed Registered in England and Wales No.
Tel: 44 0 20 7401 7646. at the Annual General Meeting, as approved by the Audit Committee.
com We shall be tendering the provision of Audit services for future years Committees of the Board during 2014.
Furtherdetails are included in the Audit Committee Report.
We delegate some of the Boards detailed work to each of the Nomination & Governance, Ethics & Compliance, Audit and Remuneration Disclosure of information to the Auditor Committees.
Each of these has their own Terms of Reference, which may In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors be found on the Groups website at www.
The serving at the time of approving the Directors Report con rm that, to the Company Secretary or her designate is secretary to each of the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information Committees.
The Chairman of each Committee reports orally to the Board of which the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the Directors and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
also con rm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the Auditor Other Committees isaware of such information.
Executive Risk Committee Principal accountant fees and services Olivier Bohuon chairs our Executive Risk Committee which includes the Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups Executive Directors and Executive Of cers of the Group.
As an integral independent auditor in each of the last two scal years, in each of the part of our planning and review process, the management of each of our following categories were: divisions identi es the risks applicable to their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions required 2013 2012 and being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Executive Risk $ million $ million Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks they identify across the Group and the mitigation processes and plans.
As Audit 3 3 appropriate, the Executive Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or Audit related fees require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
We receive an annual report from the Executive Risk Committee, which Tax 3 2 details the signi cant risks categorised by potential financial impact on Other pro t and share price and by likelihood of occurrence.
Details of new, key or signi cantly increased risks, along with actions put in place to mitigate 6 5 such risks, are also reported to us as appropriate.
We have provided further information on the principal risks identi ed through this process Audit fees include fees associated with the annual audit and local inFinancial review and principal risks on pages 36 to 41 of this statutory audits required internationally.
A more detailed breakdown Annual Report.
ofaudit fees may be found in Note 3.2 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Disclosures Committee Olivier Bohuon chairs the Disclosures Committee which includes the Chief Financial Of cer and various additional senior executives.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority, SEC and to theLondon and New York Stock Exchanges.
By order of the Board, on 26 February 2014 Sir John Buchanan Chairman GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 55 appointment of Roberto Quarta as Non-executive Director and Chairman Nomination & Governance Committee Elect with effect from 4 December 2013.
I shall retire from the Board following the Annual General Meeting and Roberto Quarta will be Sir John Buchanan appointed in my place.
Changes to Board Composition The Committee recommended the appointment of Michael Friedman asNon-executive Director.
He joined the Board on 11 April 2013 bringing exceptional experience of the US Healthcare market with both public and private sector experience.
Membership The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and Sir John Buchanan Chairman Independent on appointment recommended that Brian Larcombe replace Richard fide Schutter as Olivier Bohuon Senior Independent Director, when he retires following the Annual Brian Larcombe Independent General Meeting.
Richard fide Schutter Independent The Committee has continued its search for additional Non-executive Roberto Quarta Independent Chairman Elect with effect from Directors, focusing, in particular, on the skills, experience, independence 4 December 2013. and diversity each candidate brings to the Board.
We look for candidates who will support the strategic priorities identi ed by the Board and in 2014 will continue to look for Non-executive Directors with experience Five meetings within emerging markets or within the US and European healthcare systems.
Main responsibilities Our focus on emerging markets experience will be particularly important after the retirement of Ajay Piramel following the Annual General Meeting Review size and composition of the Board on 10 April 2014.
Oversee the Board succession plans Recommend Director appointments Oversee governance aspects of the Board and its Committees Governance Matters Oversee review into the Boards effectiveness During the year, the Committee also addressed a number of governance Consider and update the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board matters.
We reviewed the Terms of Reference of all the Board Committees and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees in light of new regulations and guidance from the UK Government and Monitor external corporate governance activities and keep the Board theFinancial Reporting Council on Executive Remuneration, Narrative updated Reporting and Audit Committee Reporting.
We received updates from theCompany Secretary on new developments in corporate reporting Oversee the Board Development Programme and the induction inboth the UK and Europe.
We reviewed the independence of our process for new Directors.
Non-executive Directors, considered potential con icts of interest andthediversity of the Board and made recommendations concerning these matters to the Board.
Key activities in 2013 in addition to main responsibilities Recommended the appointment of Roberto Quarta as Chairman Elect Diversity Recommended the appointment of Michael Friedman as a new As we explained in our 2011 Annual Report, we value diversity in the Non-executive Director Boardroom.
Our directors come from different backgrounds and each Reviewed and approved new Terms of Reference for Board brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions with a Committees and new Matters Reserved to the Board wide range of professional and geographical backgrounds.
We are Continued consideration of diversity issues, independence of committed to maintaining a diverse Board.
In 2012, we stated that our Non-executive Directors and potential con icts of interests expectation would be that by 2015, 25% of our Board would be female and we have met this expectation.
When appointing new directors, we Received updates on corporate governance matters.
will continue to appointon merit whilst valuing diversity in its broadest sense.
Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Nomination & Whilst the whole Board remains responsible for ensuring that the Governance Committee in 2013.
The membership and principal duties Company is governed appropriately, the Committee carries out the ofthe Committee are set out in the table above.
In 2013, we dealt with the moredetailed work to support this.
following matters: Yours sincerely Appointment of Roberto Quarta as Chairman Elect In April 2014, I shall have served on the Smith & Nephew plc Board for nineyears.
The Board agreed therefore that they should commence a search for my replacement during 2013.
Richard fide Schutter, Senior Independent Director led this search assisted by Brian Larcombe, Sir John Buchanan member of this Committee and by the independent search rm, Russell Chairman of Nomination & Governance Committee Reynolds.
They interviewed a number of candidates, who also met with Olivier Bohuon, the Chief Executive Of cer and other Non-executive Directors.
Idid not take part in this search, but was kept updated of progress throughout.
In October, the Committee recommended the SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Dear Shareholder, Ethics & Compliance Committee I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Ethics & Pamela Kirby Compliance Committee in 2013.
The membership and the principal duties ofthe Committee are set out in the table.
In 2013, we dealt with the following matters, among others: Settlement with US Securities and Exchange Commission and US Department of Justice During the year, we continued to work closely with the independent monitor appointed as part of our settlement with the SEC and DOJ in Membership 2012.
With his help, we have continued to evaluate the effectiveness of Pamela Kirby Chairman Independent our compliance programme and adopt further enhancements to the Michael Friedman Independent with effect from 4 December 2013 programme.
We met individually with the monitor and collectively as a Joseph Papa Independent Committee and discussed our compliance programme with him.
In August, the monitor submitted to the SEC, DOJ and our Board a follow-up Richard fide Schutter Independent.
report to his initial report from 2012.
The follow-up report contained additional recommendations and observations regarding implementation of his initial recommendations.
It also concluded that Smith & Nephews Four Meetings programme is reasonably designed and implemented to detect and prevent violations of the anti-corruption laws and is functioning Main responsibilities effectively.
The SEC and DOJ concurred in that assessment, and in Review ethics and compliance programmes December 2013 we and the monitor submitted a final, joint report.
In January 2014, the SEC and DOJ con rmed that the independent Review policies and training programmes monitorship has terminated.
We are now subject to self-reporting and Review compliance performance based on monitoring, auditing other requirements for the remainder of the settlement agreements andinvestigations data thatis, until at least March 2015. Review allegations of signi cant compliance failures Review Groups internal and external communications relating to ethics Compliance Programme for Distributors and compliance issues We continued to review our compliance programme with third party Review external developments and compliance activities sellers such as distributors and sales agents, particularly in higher risk Receive reports from the Groups ethics and compliance meetings markets.
This programme includes due diligence, contracts with andfrom the Chief Compliance Of cer and the Chief Legal Of cer.
compliance terms and compliance training.
To increase oversight, we are also piloting related monitoring and auditing programmes in 2014.
During 2013, we required our distributors to complete expanded due diligence Key activities in 2013 questionnaires and certi cations and have continued to work with them in addition to main responsibilities to build and enhance their own compliance programmes.
We provide all Held meetings with independent monitor appointed under the DOJ our distributors with a set of resources, which they can customise and SEC settlement to discuss the effectiveness of our Global Compliance brand for their own compliance programmes.
programme, review his reports, and consider further enhancements Continued to review compliance programme for third party sellers and Compliance Programme for Other Third Parties other third parties doing business with the Company We have continued to strengthen our controls over other third parties Reviewed development of employee compliance training programmes engaged by us to provide services other than selling our products, such Considered compliance implications relating to potential acquisitions, as customs, registration and travel agents.
In 2014, we willincrease our including due diligence findings and integration plans.
scrutiny on potential higher risk third parties.
We have established a policy and process requiring that managers categorise thirdparties and take appropriate steps, including performing a risk assessment, conducting due diligence and assigning training, based on third party type and risk pro le.
We previously created Guidance on the Smith & Nephew Code of Conduct and Business Principles for Third Parties to highlight the areas of our Code of Conduct that apply directly to third parties and that we expect them to follow when working on our behalf.
GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 57 Employee Compliance Programme Compliance Implications around Acquisitions New employees are trained on our Code of Conduct which sets out the During 2013, there has been increased acquisition activity across the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and applies Group, with the acquisition of Plato Grup in Turkey, Sushrut-Adler in India both to the employees and others who act on the Groups behalf.
It sets and Politec in Brazil, as well as the announcement of an agreement to out in detail how persons covered by the Code of Conduct are expected acquire Pro Cirurgia Especializada, also in Brazil.
We have compliance to interact ethically with healthcare professionals and government due diligence reviews and integration plans relating to each of these of cials.
It also covered the broader issues of ethics and compliance transactions and we monitor progress against these plans.
throughout the business and includes a code of business principles.
Acopy of the Code of Conduct can be found on the Groups website Compliance Investigations www.
Finally, an effective compliance programme must regularly evaluate and The Code of Conduct includes our whistle-blowing policy, which enables address emerging risks and design appropriate controls and take employees and members of the public to contact us anonymously necessary remedial actions.
These actions may include investigations through an independent provider where allowed by local law.
Individuals about possible improprieties, which we pursue with due care.
can also report a concern to their direct manager or a manager in Compliance, Legal or Human Resources.
All calls and contacts are Yours sincerely investigated and the appropriate action taken, including reports for senior management or the Board, where warranted.
As stated in the Code of Conduct, we also enforce our non-retaliation policy against anyone who makes a report in good faith.
The Ethics & Compliance Committee is advised of any potentially signi cant improprieties which are reported.
In 2013, we reviewed the Group Policies and Procedures GPPs supporting the Code of Conduct, and made revisions to policies covering Pamela Kirby booths atmedical meetings, free products, digital media and other areas.
Chairman of Ethics & Compliance Committee Wecontinually work to enhance the employee compliance training programme.
New employees receive training on our Code of Conduct, and we assign annual compliance training to employees.
People managers also must complete a certi cation that includes content targeted to their role and the challenges they face.
In 2013, we created a refresher course onPreventing Bribery and Corruption and a course on Effective Communication.
The preventing bribery model gave employees an opportunity to apply their knowledge in different scenarios.
The annual bonus to senior managers can be negatively impacted if theirteam members have not completed the requisite training.
The compliance training programme continues to evolve to focus more on tailored situations relevant to employees in speci c job situations.
Further support is provided through a comprehensive set of tools and resources located on our global intranet platform.
These tools and resources are regularly reviewed and updated.
Compliance Infrastructure We are mindful that an effective compliance programme requires both a culture of integrity and investment in the necessary infrastructure to give effect to that culture.
As the Company grows in new markets, we continue to expand our global network of Regional Compliance Of cers and they work with local management to reinforce the importance of compliance with our employees and third parties around the world.
In 2013, we added regional compliance staff in Russia, Brazil, Turkey, Japan and theMiddle East.
