Philip Bowman Peter Turner Chief Executive Finance Director Aged 60, Philip Bowman is Australian with a MA in Natural Aged 43, Peter Turner is British with a BA in Natural Science Sciences.
He has extensive experience of leadership at major Chemistry.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant whilst working international public companies and was appointed Chief Executive for .
He became Finance Director of of Smiths Group in 2007.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Philip was previously Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc Peter joined Smiths Group from the independent oil company, and Allied Domecq plc.
He also held non-executive directorships Venture Production plc, where he was the Finance Director.
at British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Scottish and Newcastle He previously held a number of senior finance posts at the global Group plc and Coles Myer Limited as well as having been gases group, BOC Group plc, including Director of Taxation and Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier career Treasury and Finance Director of the Groups largest division.
included five years as a director of Bass plc, where he held the Peter has wide knowledge and experience of multi-national roles of Chief Financial Officer and subsequently Chief Executive operations, including the oil and gas sector.
External appointments Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Burberry Group plc Non-executive director of Better Capital PCC Limited Chairman of The Miller Group Limited David Challen, CBE Tanya Fratto Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Aged 70, David Challen CBE was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Aged 52, Tanya Fratto was appointed to the Board in 2012.
He is British with a BA in Mathematics, a BSc in Natural Science An American, she is a qualified electrical engineer with a BSc Physics and an MBA from Harvard.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience David had a long and distinguished career in investment banking.
Tanya was CEO of Diamond Innovations Inc. a world-leading He is a former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co, where he manufacturer of super-abrasive products for the material spent most of his professional career.
He was the first chairman removal industry, until 2010.
Before that she enjoyed a successful of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel set up under the act 20-year career with GE.
She held a number of senior positions which created the Financial Services Authority.
He has an in-depth in product management, operations, Six Sigma and supply chain understanding of capital markets and provides valuable support management.
Tanya provides Smiths with wide experience in to the Group on key financial matters.
product innovation and sales and marketing in a range of sectors.
Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee External appointments External appointments Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Non-executive director of Boart Longyear Ltd, an AustralianCommittee of Anglo American plc listed, US-based mining products and services company Chairman of the Citigroup EMEA Governance Committee Non-executive director of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. a US-based private company Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel Member of the Financial Reporting Councils advisory group of audit committee chairmen Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 71 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Board of directors Continued Anne Quinn, CBE Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Non-executive director Non-executive director Aged 62, Anne Quinn was appointed to the Board in 2009.
She Aged 66, Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in June 2006. is from New Zealand and has a BCom and MSc in Management Sir Kevin is British and has a BA in History.
Strengths and experience Strengths and experience Sir Kevin held policy management and finance posts in the MoD, Anne spent her early career with NZ Forest Products Limited Foreign and Commonwealth Office and NATO.
These included and the US management consulting company, Resource Planning three years service in Washington as Defence and European Associates.
She has extensive overseas experience in the oil and Counsellor at the British Embassy before becoming Director of gas sector, having enjoyed a successful 20-year career with BP.
GCHQ and finally Permanent Under Secretary at the Ministry of She held a number of executive positions including Group Vice Defence from 1998 to 2005.
Sir Kevins career as a former senior President in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK.
Following British civil servant provides Smiths with considerable experience her career with BP, Anne was a director of Riverstone LLP, an in the defence sector and in government relations issues.
Annes experience is a great benefit Committee memberships to the Group in its development of new geographic markets and Audit Committee its exposure to the oil and gas sector.
Nomination Committee Committee memberships Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee External appointments Senior Adviser to URS Corporation and to Hewlett Packard Nomination Committee Senior Associate Fellow at Royal United Services Institute External appointments Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, London University Committee of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited, a company Member of the Advisory Board of the Imperial College Institute dual-listed in the UK and South Africa for Security, Science and Technology Board balance and diversity The Smiths Group Board comprised eight members throughout FY2013 and currently has nine members, with the addition of Sir George Buckley.
The charts below illustrate as at 31st July 2013 the diversity of the Board in relation to tenure, gender and nationality.
Executive balance 75% Gender balance 75% a Executive a Female b Non-executive b Male The Board has two executive directors, the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The majority of the Board are independent 25% 25% non-executives, who bring a wealth of skills There are two women on the Board, and experience to Smiths.
Anne Quinn and Tanya Fratto.
a b a b Nationality Board tenure 50% 1 a From 0-2 years b From 3-6 years 37.5% c From 7-10 years United France Australia United States New Zealand Kingdom Five nationalities are represented on the Board, although 12.5% the international experience of Board members is much Further details on the tenure of wider than this.
each director are shown on pages 70-72. a b c 72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance statement One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog Chairmans introduction role of the Board and finding this balance between individuality Donald Brydon, CBE and team behaviour is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive directors.
In our circumstances as a holding company for a number of businesses, the reduced Board size works effectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external The Board of the Company is committed to ensuring that it expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, provides effective leadership and promotes uncompromising a successful board should, ideally, be composed of a group ethical standards.
One of the ways in which the Board achieves of respected, experienced, like-minded but diverse people this is by requiring that good governance principles and practices who coalesce around a common purpose of promoting the are adhered to throughout the Company.
The Board determined long-term success of the Company, provide a unified vision that the following is a helpful summary of its role: of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at Good corporate governance is about helping to run the times but encourage all the time and who create confidence Company well.
in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
It involves ensuring that an effective internal framework A board meeting should feel like a meeting at which everyone of systems and controls is put in place which clearly defines is participating to solve problems together.
Above all, all authority and accountability and that promotes success whilst participants should be able to say after a board meeting that permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
value has been added as a result of the meeting taking place.
It involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions This added value will come in many forms: challenge, advice, of success, the appropriateness of risk and the levels of clarity, imagination, support, sharing of problems, or creating delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement strategic intent.
The list is not exhaustive.
is the responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
Board membership is for 365 days of the year.
Board responsibilities do not start and end with formal meetings.
It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views Board members, on the Companys and their own initiative, of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate should endeavour to engage outside of meetings to bring their consideration when reaching these judgements.
experience to the assistance of the executive team whenever The executive team is required to provide such information to the possible.
Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement Above all there should be a sense of value added from the over these matters.
engagement of the board members in all their interaction There is a very fine distinction between the approval of processes with the Company, formal or otherwise.
Wherever possible it is the role of the To enhance its performance and effectiveness, each year since Board to approve process rather than initiate or define it.
Only 2011 the Board has set itself explicit objectives separate from exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
objectives set for the Company and for the Chief Executive, The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which following the outcome of the respective Board appraisal process it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definitions of for the prior year.
In relation to the objectives for the year ended success and the assessment of appropriate risk all define the 31 July 2013, the Board has regularly monitored its performance atmosphere within which the executive team works.
against these and has found this process adds value.
Donald Brydon, CBE Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although adherence may constitute a part of the Chairman evidence of good governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the non-executive directors.
Equally, executive directors who just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view and being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 73 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued Governance structure Board Responsible for setting the Groups strategy, provides the leadership of the Company, supervises the management of the Company, monitors the operational and financial performance of the Company, and reports to shareholders on its stewardship of the shareholders assets.
Board Committees Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Reviews the structure, size and Makes recommendations to the Board on Monitors the integrity of the Companys composition of the Board and Board the Companys remuneration framework financial statements, its systems of Committees and considers succession and sets the remuneration of the internal controls and risk management planning for directors and senior Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance and its internal and external audit findings.
Executive Management Committees Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Acquisitions & Disposals Committee Monitors performance of the businesses Takes decisions concerning the Considers, approves and sets conditions and the functions supporting the identification of inside information and in relation to Group acquisitions businesses, and makes recommendations the timing and method of disclosure, and divestments within parameters on the implementation of strategy, and advises the Chief Executive and the established by the Board.
operations, people and organisational Board in accordance with the Companys development and Group policies.
Divisional Boards Functional Boards John Crane Smiths Smiths Smiths Flex-Tek Environment Security Ethics Code Medical Detection Interconnect Health & Committee Compliance Safety Steering Council Committee Monitors the delivery of short-term and medium-term performance Develops Contributes to Oversees the targets in accordance with the financial and operational performance and monitors the development implementation of targets and the strategic plans set by the Board.
A corporate member implementation of Group Security the Smiths Group of the Executive Committee sits on each divisional board as an investor of EHS policies policies and Code of Business director.
associated Ethics and makes minimum recommendations standards and to management monitors their and to the Audit execution.
74 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the period 1 August 2012 to 31 July 2013 the Company has been in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
uk, except that the value of any fees received by executive directors in respect of external non-executive directorships is not disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as this is not considered relevant to the Company.
The Company intends to continue to explain rather than comply with the Code in this limited area.
Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7 This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7: and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report on pages97 and98 and is incorporated in this Corporate governance statement by reference.
Directors The Board As at17 September 2013, the Board comprises Mr Brydon Chairman, Mr Bowman Chief Executive, Mr Turner Finance Director and six independent non-executive directors: Sir George Buckley Deputy Chairman, Mr Challen Senior Independent Director, Mr Angelici, Ms Fratto, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Brydon will retire from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 November 2013 and Sir George Buckley will be appointed as Chairman to succeed him.
Biographies of these directors, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages70 to 72.
The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that they can debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance against the goals set by the Board.
Board visit to John Crane, Chicago The Board holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make and review major business decisions and monitor current trading against plans which it has approved, and holds regular additional meetings to consider the strategy of each of the divisions and the strategy of the Company.
The Board exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which only the Board may change: these matters include the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure.
Further meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards and has adopted a Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on page 62.
The executive directors and senior management team are responsible for the Companys financial performance, the day-to-day management of the Companys businesses and implementation of the strategy and direction set by the Board.
The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive directors present at least twice a year.
The Senior Independent Director meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present at least annually and is available to provide support to the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors, if required.
Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 75 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued Board activities Trust and values Strategy and risk Ethics, health and safety and Operational, commercial and geographic environmental management: strategies by Division and for Company as security a whole: risk management reviews Compliance and governance Financials Board performance and effectiveness: corporate governance updates: Previous months trading: budgets and Board forecasts:financial risk and treasury directors conflicts: share register: inside information and disclosure report: tax risk and status report: approval of trading statements considerations: legal issues and litigation risk Operations M&A CEOs report, operating business Current projects report: performance updates post-acquisition reviews Trust and values Compliance and governance The Board sets the tone for the Companys culture of The Board receives regular corporate governance updates compliance with high ethical standards and with all the laws on relevant issues.
This year in March the Board approved and regulations that apply to its businesses.
In January, the an update of the Companys Disclosure Policy and Procedures Board considered the anti-corruption measures in place Manual to help ensure that the Companys policies and across the Group particularly in the light of the UK Bribery Act procedures are in line with the increasingly stringent obligations and its focus on a company having adequate procedures to which apply in relation to inside information and disclosure.
The Board supported the holding of an Ethics The Board also approved revisions to the Companys Share Conference in Sao Paulo in December 2012, focused on Latin Dealing Policy to reflect recent guidance.
America and attended by corporate and divisional managers, Financials to address the ethical risks arising from operations in multiple The Board considers the Groups trading performance and jurisdictions.
In September, the Board discussed the results financial risk at each meeting.
During the year, it also reviews of the MyVoice survey completed by over 90% of all employees and approves thebudget and periodic forecasts.
In September, throughout the Group, designed to strengthen employee the Board approved the issue of a US$400mbond.
Later in the year, the Board was also updated on the ongoing work on Human Operations Resources strategy and the challenges of attracting the best The Board regularly monitors the optimal operating structure talent in a global marketplace.
of the Group, including consideration of the interaction between the role of the Corporate Centre operating under the Boards Strategy and risk direction and subject to the Boards reserved powers and the The Board holds a number of dedicated strategy sessions divisions.
This is an area which the Executive Committee also each year, focusing on long-term targets and initiatives to considered in detail during the year, including at a four day improve the growth, efficiency and capability of each division off-site meeting in June.
One of the areas identified during the and of the Company.
The information and proposals which year for greater synergy was procurement.
A new Group Head are provided to the Board are underpinned by a number of of Procurement to lead the Smiths Group Procurement Council work-streams amongst the executive teams in each division.
This year initiatives included the holding of an innovation workshop in October at which a number of draft principles, M&A key enablers and individual actions covering the most important The Board considers a report on potential changes to the aspects of innovation process and capability were formulated.
Groups portfolio of assets at each meeting and additional A cross-divisional strategy workshop was also held in October meetings of the Board are convened, as necessary, to discuss which concentrated on competitor effectiveness, commercial significant acquisitions and divestments.
This year, the Company prioritisation, marketing and pricing.
received an unsolicited approach for the Medical division which the Board considered as part of its duty to shareholders to In addition to the regular divisional risk reviews presented determine whether the Company remains the best owner of to the Audit Committee, at least once a year the Board reviews its businesses.
Aftercareful assessment, the Board concluded risks at a Group level.
In July this year the Group-wide risk that acceptable terms could not be reached.
report that was presented to the Board included an analysis of the cyber security risks faced by the Company and the measures in place to mitigate these.
76 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Board meetings Chairman and Chief Executive The table below shows the number of board meetings held during The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman the financial year ended 31 July 2013 and, opposite each directors and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for name, the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting the number actually attended.
A number of meetings were held its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief at short notice during the year to deal with urgent matters.
Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and By their nature, it is not always possible to achieve full attendance financial objectives.
at short-notice meetings, since directors may have pre-existing Key roles and responsibilities commitments which they are unable to change.
Where an individual director was unable to attend a meeting convened at Chairman short notice, he or she provided input to the Chairman separately The Chairmans responsibilities include: in advance of the meeting, which was duly represented at the Leadership of the Board meeting and the director concerned received feedback after the Setting the agenda and tone for the Board meeting from either the Chairman or the Company Secretary.
Promoting high standards of integrity and corporate Board meetings governance Eligible to Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board attend Attended D. H. Brydon Chairman 12 12 P. Bowman 12 12 P. A. Turner 12 12 B. F. J. Angelici 12 12 D. J. Challen 12 12 Chief Executive T. D. Fratto 12 12 The Chief Executives responsibilities include: A. C. Quinn 12 12 Ensuring implementation of the strategic and financial K. R. Tebbit 12 11 objectives approved by the Board Providing leadership on all executive management matters Board visits affecting the Company The Board regards attendance at meetings as only one measure Chairing the Executive Committee of directors contributions to the Company.
In addition to formal Ensuring the Companys diverse stakeholder relationships board meetings, the directors attend other meetings and make including with shareholders, employees and customers site visits during the year.
For example, as part of her induction are properly managed process which began at the end of last financial year and continued in the first quarter of this financial year, Ms Fratto visited a number of the Companys sites in the USA and Europe and met employees and management in all five divisions.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include: In May 2013 the Board visited the new John Crane headquarters Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman in Chicago and the nearby John Crane manufacturing facility in Acting as an intermediary for the directors where necessary Morton Grove.
The Board was shown the recent improvements Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which to the facility and met employees involved in each of the specialist cannot be resolved through the Chairman or executive production areas within the plant.
The directors also spent time management with the John Crane senior management team and received Conducting an annual review of the Chairmans performance an update on business performance, strategy and a number of commercial and business improvement initiatives.
Company Secretary The Company Secretarys responsibilities include: Ensuring that all Board and Board Committee meetings are properly held Assisting the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring that the directors are provided with all relevant information Organising new directors induction and ongoing training requirements Maintaining the Groups governance and listing rule compliance framework Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 77 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued Board balance and independence Newly appointed directors undergo an induction programme There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards understanding of the Company and its activities.
Throughout the financial year at least half the briefing sessions on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent issues, finance and risk management and HR, as well as meetings non-executive directors.
and site visits to business locations.
Each directors individual experience and background is taken into account in developing In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees is taken into account.
The tablebelow indicates the service, The Chairman consults with the directors on their respective to 31July2013, of each of the directors.
All the non-executive training and development requirements.
The suitability of external directors are considered to be independent and Mr Brydon courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is was considered independent at the time of his appointment charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and with as Chairman.
assisting in the ongoing training and development of all directors.
Appointments to the Board All directors have access to the advice and services of the The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, independent professional advice at the Companys expense should which are made on merit and against objective criteria, having this be required.
due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender.
This Conflicts of interest procedure was followed in the appointment of Sir George Under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act a director must Buckley as an independent non-executive director and Deputy avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct or Chairman on 1 August 2013.
Further information in relation indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the to the Chairmans succession and the recruitment of Sir George companys interests.
The requirement is very broad, and could are described in the Nomination Committee report below.
apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another The Board is satisfied that the directors are able to allocate company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows sufficient time to their responsibilities relating to the Company.
directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential The Board considered during the year other appointments and conflicts where appropriate and where the articles of association proposed appointments of the directors as part of the directors contain a provision to this effect, as the Companys Articles do.
conflicts of interest procedure as further described below The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report any Information and professional development potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for The Board is provided with detailed information several days their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware of in advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and nonthe requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conflict executive directors have ready access to the executive directors situations, as they may arise.
The process of formally reviewing and other senior corporate staff.
Non-executive directors are conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given including such also provided with information and updates between meetings.
conditions as the Board may determine in each case, is repeated Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are twice a year.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by encouraged to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the are arranged and the directors are free to discuss aspects of the Board minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which business with employees at all levels.
is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Tenure of the Board The Board and Nomination Committee regularly review the mix of skills and experience on the Board.
The chart illustrates the good balance of longer-standing Board members and more recent appointments, ensuring a healthy blend of experience and fresh perspectives.
9 years 3 months D. H. Brydon 3 years 1 month B. J. F. Angelici 5 years 7 months P. Bowman 8 years 10 months D. J. Challen 1 yr 1 mth T. D. Fratto 4 years A. C. Quinn 7 years 2 months K. R. Tebbit 3 years 3 months P. A. Turner 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 78 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and each director.
The Board evaluation completed in respect of the year ended 31 July 2012 identified a number of key strengths of the Board or its functions and activities, including focused, efficient and collaborative Board meetings: good leadership from the Chairman: useful reporting against a demanding set of Board objectives: appropriate balance of skills and expertise among Board members: thorough but not oppressive corporate governance framework.
Following on from the review the Board noted a number of points which it considered could enhance its performance and set itself a series of written objectives for the year ended 31 July 2013.
These objectives, and the Board performance against them, included: Objective 2013 Performance Improve understanding of the The Board received updates on cross-business working groups for example, New Product cross-business initiatives and how Introduction and Quality and considered the impact of these and other areas of shared interest they can contribute to Group value such as potential new materials or increased cyber-security risk as part of divisional strategy reviews to the Board and the divisional risk reviews to the Audit Committee Manage Chairman succession The formal process of recruitment for a successor to the Chairman commenced in December 2012 and completed in June 2013 with the announcement of the appointment of Sir George Buckley Deepen understanding of the top The Nominations Committee on which all the non-executive directors sit received a detailed 30 executives following the 2011 12 presentation on talent management and succession planning in May 2013.
In addition, review the members of the Board received presentations from different representatives of senior management at Board meetings throughout the year, and met with senior executives in less formal settings during Board visits and before and after Board and Committee meetings.
In respect of the year ended 31 July 2013 the Board evaluation was Accountability and audit conducted by the Company Secretary using internally administered Financial reporting questionnaires.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills, The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable experience, independence and knowledge of the Company on assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the the Board and its diversity in the widest sense and other factors Annual Report and in interim and other public reports.
The Board relevant to its effectiveness.
The questionnaire required each of is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the the directors to consider the performance of the Board and each of directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out the main Board committees against a number of criteria, including on page 102. effectiveness of leadership, efficiency of meetings, time and focus The going concern statement required by the Code is set out given to particular areas, information issues, corporate governance in the Group directors report on page 97. standards and the extent to which the objectives set by the Board had been met.
It also looked at how well the Board works together Internal control as a unit and the performance of each individual director against a The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent number of criteria.
The results of the evaluation are used to inform of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular the Boards approach going forward.
objectives and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems to safeguard shareholders investments and the The directorships in listed companies and other significant Companys assets.
The effectiveness of the internal control system commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors is reviewed at least annually by the Audit Committee, covering all are shown on pages 70to 72.
It is confirmed that the Chairman material controls, including financial, operational and compliance and the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee commitments to the Company and that no executive director carried out such a review during the year ended 31 July 2013. holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE The Financial Reporting Councils report Internal Control: Revised 100 company.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code October 2005 Re-election provides guidance.
All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first The Company has in place internal control and risk management AGM following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process all directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for reand the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Non-executive These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, subject the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment for a and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide second three-year term is not automatic.
Any term for a nonreasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance rigorous review.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require Remuneration representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the out on page83 and the Directors remuneration report is on business and its results for the period: and review and reconcile pages84to85.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these internal control and risk management systems.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 79 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Corporate governance statement Continued The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk Audit Committee and Auditors and a framework of control procedures to manage risks and The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent to monitor compliance with procedures.
The procedures for arrangements for considering how financial reporting and accountability and control are outlined below.
internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors, The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the  LLP.
Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, Relations with shareholders assurance against material loss to the Company or material Dialogue with shareholders misstatement in the financial accounts.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director, Investor Relations communicate with institutional investors The Group has an embedded process for the identification, through analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows evaluation and management of significant business risks.
The in the UK, US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock process is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored Exchange announcements, meetings with management and site by the Group Internal Audit Department.
The Company has during visits as shown in the table below.
Members of the Board, and in the year identified and evaluated the key risks and has ensured particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage views, in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers these risks.
At least twice a year a report is made to the Board on In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the the number and types of meetings between the Company and Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent procedures manuals and are reinforced by training programmes.
Director and the other non-executive directors are available to These are designed to ensure compliance not only with the meet shareholders on request.
regulatory requirements but also with general principles of Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting business integrity.
All directors normally attend the Companys AGM and A key element in any system is communication: the executive shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with and to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
representatives from the businesses to address financial, human It is intended that there shall be a poll vote on each resolution at resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
The audited, final results of the poll votes will be released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit Companys website, www.
com, as soon as is practicable Committee, reviews the effectiveness of internal control and after the conclusion of the AGM.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has reviewed mediumand longer-term All the directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination strategic plans: management development programmes: reports and Remuneration Committees, were available at the 2012 AGM on key operational issues: tax: treasury: risk management: to answer shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and insurance: legal matters: and Audit Committee reports, including related papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days internal and external auditors reports.
Investor relations activities timeline 2012-2013 Roadshows Presentations June 2013 US May 2013 Germany April 2013 UK, US, Canada, Norway, Sweden, Netherlands March 2013 UK Interim results December 2012 Private client brokers November 2012 Germany, Switzerland, France, AGM Private client brokers October 2012 UK, US, Canada September 2012 UK Annual results During financial year 2013, senior management and the Contact with investors analysts 4 investor relations team had contact with over 300 analysts 1 United Kingdom 49% 3 and investors.
2 US and Canada 31% 3 Rest of Europe 18% 4 Rest of World 2% 1 2 80 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Board Committees Membership The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees The members of the Committee during the financial year were are available upon request and on the Companys website, Mr Challen Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Ms Fratto, www.
Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Board has determined that the Committee members have Audit Committee the skills and experience, including knowledge and experience of financial reporting and international business, necessary David Challen, CBE to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
Chairman of the Audit Committee In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has the requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
Responsibilities and activities The Committee meets at least three times a year to monitor Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee the integrity of the Companys financial statements and The role of the Audit Committee includes monitoring and the effectiveness of the external audit process, corporate reviewing 1 the integrity of the Companys financial statements governance issues and, in particular, the implementation of and its accounting policies and methods: 2 the Companys the Companys Code of Business Ethics and the arrangements systems of internal controls and risk management: 3 the for employees to raise confidentially and anonymously, if they Companys Code of Business Ethics and Business Ethics so choose concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial Programme: 4 the Companys internal audit function: and 5 reporting and other matters.
It is responsible for ensuring that the appointment of and the Companys working relationship with an appropriate relationship between the Company and the the external auditors, including their remuneration, terms of external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit engagement, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness services and fees and implementing the Companys audit partner of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK rotation policy.
The Committee has primary responsibility for professional and regulatory requirements.
Over the past making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, financial year the Audit Committee has met three times in order reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups systems of As agreed by the Board last financial year, the Audit Committee internal control: the processes for monitoring and evaluating focused on monitoring operational risks whilst the Board carried the risks facing the Group: and the effectiveness of the internal out the review of strategic Group-level risk.
The Committee audit function: it is responsible for approving the appointment has carefully reviewed annual risk presentations from each of and removal of the Director, Internal Audit.
The Committee the five divisions and from BIS Business Information Services, reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness and the Companys IT function.
In order to be satisfied that risk recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of management is fully embedded in the thinking and planning of such review.
the management teams of each of the divisions and of BIS, the Committee has challenged the divisional general managers and The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was BIS to show that they have properly identified all the significant conducted in July 2013 and addressed the changes necessary, at risks to their business, how these have changed since the this stage, to reflect the revisions to reporting requirements under previous review and the measures and contingency plans which the UK Corporate Governance Code that have been proposed by have been put in place to manage them satisfactorily.
the Financial Reporting Council and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills and will apply, in their final form, to the The Committee has monitored the activities of the Company Companys 2013 14 financial year.
in promoting and policing its Business Ethics Programme.
The Committee has reviewed the treatment of allegations of In the year to 31 July 2013, the Audit Committee discharged unethical and non-compliant behaviour that are dealt with by the its responsibilities by reviewing: Companys Code Compliance Council.
The level of allegations the Groups financial statements and interim results statement received and their materiality are considered to be low in the prior to Board approval and the external auditors detailed context of the size and scope of the Company.
reports thereon: the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Groups Meeting attendance external auditors: Audit Committee Eligible to the external auditors effectiveness and plan for the audit of attend Attended the Groups 2012 13 accounts, which included confirmations of D. J. Challen Chairman 3 3 auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving B. F. J. Angelici 3 3 the terms of engagement for the audit: T. D. Fratto 3 3 an annual report on the Groups systems of internal control and A. C. Quinn 3 3 their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the K. R. Tebbit 3 3 review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control: More information can be found at www.
com the risks associated with major business programmes: and the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2012 13 work programme and regular reports on the key issues arising from its work during the year.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 81 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview
