St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee External Auditors Non-Audit Services The external auditors are appointed primarily to carry out the statutory The Audit and Risk Committees primary responsibilities include reviewing audit and their continued independence and objectivity is fundamental to the effectiveness of the Companys and the Groups systems of internal that role.
In view of their knowledge of the business, there may be control, overseeing the selection of and relationship with external auditors occasions when the external auditors are best placed to undertake other and the review and monitoring of the integrity of financial statements.
The services on behalf of the Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee has a Committee is responsible for review of the Groups major financial, policy which sets out those non-audit services which the external auditors operational and corporate social responsibility risk management may provide and those which are prohibited.
Within that policy, any processes.
The effectiveness of these processes is monitored on a non-audit service must be approved by the Committee.
Before approving a continuous basis and a formal assessment is conducted at least annually.
non-audit service, consideration is given to whether the nature of the The Committee has been delegated the responsibility for advising the full service, materiality of the fees, or the level of reliance to be placed on it by Board on compliance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the SOCO would create, or appear to create, a threat to independence.
If it is Code, including its risk management and internal control requirements, as determined that such a threat might arise, approval will not be granted well as compliance with evolving guidance on corporate governance issues unless the Audit and Risk Committee is satis ed that appropriate generally.
Additionally, the Committee reports to the Board on whether, safeguards are applied to ensure independence and objectivity are not taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and impaired.
The auditor is prohibited from providing any services which result understandable and provide information necessary for shareholders to in certain circumstances that have been deemed to present such a threat, assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The including auditing their own work, taking management decisions for the Committees activities undertaken in the discharge of its duties are Group or creating either a mutuality or con ict of interest.
The Company regularly reported to the Board.
has taken steps to develop resources and relationships in order to establish availability of alternate advisors for financial and other matters.
Additionally, the Committee closely monitors the terms on which the Matters Reported to the Board Remuneration Committee, with approval of the Audit and Risk Committee, has independently appointed the Companys auditors as advisors.
The External Auditors Assurance Services advisors terms of reference restrict the provision of certain services in The Committee reviewed and approved the terms and scope of the audit order to maintain auditor independence and the scope and value of engagement, the audit plan and the results of the audit with the external services to the Group is under continuous review.
auditors, including the scope of services associated with audit-related regulatory reporting services.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the The Committee approved the non-audit services provided by the external audit process was made, giving consideration to reports from the auditors auditors in 2013, having concluded such services were compatible with on their internal quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor independence auditor independence and were consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
and objectivity were assessed, giving consideration to the auditors Details of non-audit services are set out in Note9 to the financial con rmation that their independence is not impaired, the overall extent of statements.
non-audit services provided by the external auditors as described below and the past service of the auditors who were first appointed, following a Risk Assessment tendering process, in 2002.
Fees payable to the auditors were reviewed The Committee undertook a detailed risk assessment whereby it reviewed and approved by the Committee and are set out in Note9 to the financial existing risks and identi ed new risks as appropriate.
signi cance of each risk was considered along with associated mitigating factors and was reported to the Board.
Any new risks or changes to The Committee has noted the changes to the Code and the recent report existing risks were monitored throughout the year and considered at each of the Competition Commission into the audit market, which should require Audit and Risk Committee meeting.
As part of this process, the Committee FTSE 350 companies to put their audit out to tender every ten years, as maintains a detailed bribery risk assessment and mitigation procedure well as the draft EU Regulation on auditor rotation.
Accordingly, the designed to ensure that the Company has appropriate procedures in place Committee will consider the appropriate timeframe within which to carry to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents and other associated out a formal tender process in respect of the external audit, in light of the persons are made fully aware of the Groups policies and procedures.
The regulatory requirements as well as performance and independence.
The Committee has reviewed and is satis ed with the Companys Committee does not currently anticipate that this will be earlier than the arrangements for whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise concerns date of rotation of the incumbent senior statutory auditor, after regarding improprieties in con dence, which would be addressed with the 31 December 2015 year end.
To facilitate such reporting the Company maintains an Ethics Hotline Service using an independent, con dential There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees choice telephone service that can be used by staff members and other of external auditor.
The Committee also considered the likelihood of a stakeholders to report a suspected breach of SOCOs Code of Business withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that there are no Conduct and Ethics.
The Committee reviews these arrangements annually.
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Board concurred with the Committees recommendation for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors for 2014, which will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
SOCO International plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Internal Controls and Risk Management Systems especially in the early stages of a elds life, and are routinely revised over On behalf of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the producing lives of oil and gas elds as new information becomes the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, including available and as economic conditions evolve.
The Committee consideration of an internal audit function, which is more fully described in acknowledges that such revisions may impact the Groups future financial the Risk Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate position and results, in particular, in relation to DD&A and impairment Governance Report on page 51.
The Committee has reviewed and testing of oil and gas property plant and equipment.
approved the related compliance statements set out therein.
The Committee has additionally reviewed and approved the statements The Committee considered the Groups intangible exploration and regarding compliance with the Code.
The Committee reviewed and evaluation assets individually for any indicators of impairment including discussed with management and the auditors the Companys relevant those indicators set out in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral financial information prior to recommendation for Board approval.
During 2013, the Groups intangible exploration and evaluation included in particular the financial statements and other material assets comprised its Africa licences which are subject to ongoing activity, information presented in the annual and half year reports.
The Committee as described in the Review of Operations on pages 18 to 23.
The considered the signi cant financial reporting issues, accounting policies Committee has not found any evidence for the existence of any indicators and judgements impacting the financial statements, and the clarity of of impairment except that, following a full evaluation of the Nganzi licence, disclosures.
The Committee conducted a review of its Terms of Reference onshore the Democratic Republic of Congo, the parties decided not to for continued appropriateness.
apply to extend the exploration period and relinquished the Block in the last quarter of 2013.
The Nganzi Block is not part of a wider cash generating Narrative Reporting unit and the costs incurred on the Block have been written off in 2013 as For the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts the Board requested the Audit discussed more fully in the Financial Review on page 25 and in Note15 to and Risk Committee to review the implementation of the new narrative the financial statements.
The Committee has discussed the Groups reporting requirements set out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic exploration and evaluation assets with both management and the auditors Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 and in the Code.
The and concur with the treatment adopted.
Committee also advised the Board whether the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have con rmed this in their Responsibility Statement set out in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 46.
Signi cant Issues Related to the 2013 Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 the Audit and Risk Committee identi ed the signi cant issues that should be considered in relation to the financial statements, being areas which may be subject to heightened risk of material misstatement.
The Groups estimates of oil and gas reserves have a signi cant impact on the financial statements, in particular in relation to depletion, depreciation and decommissioning DD&A and impairment.
Oil and gas reserves, as discussed in the Risk Management Report, are calculated using standard evaluation techniques which have inherent uncertainties in their application.
The Committee has discussed with management and the auditors the results to date of ongoing third party RPS reserve assessments which, during 2013, speci cally focussed on the Te Giag Trang eld, offshore Vietnam, and which are discussed further in the Review of Operations on pages 18 to 23.
These assessments have been scrutinised by management, taking into account the current stage of the elds development, to satisfy itself that the current reserve estimates are appropriate and that the related DD&A calculations are correct.
Management also reviewed its estimate of future costs including decommissioning costs associated with producing the reserves as estimated by SOCO.
Management prepared sensitivities based on the range of STOIIP and recovery factors estimated by RPS and using their assumptions on the number of wells required to access the reserves and based on the information available to date.
Following discussions with management and the auditors, including discussing the range of sensitivities, the Committee is satis ed that the estimates are reasonable and that there is currently no indication of impairment of the Groups producing assets and that there would be no material impact on the results or position of the Group at 31 December 2013 based on the range of sensitivities.
However, reserves estimates are inherently uncertain, SOCO International plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
