St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information D ear Shareholders I am pleased to present this introduction to our 2013 Corporate Governance Report, which describes how we have implemented and applied the principles of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
SOCO is Rui fide Sousa committed to applying the highest standards of corporate governance while Chairman pursuing the creation of value for our shareholders.
We welcome the continued development of corporate governance guidance, which has further evolved with the introduction of the new Code published in September 2012 and applied throughout 2013.
As Chairman, I remain focused on leading the Board in the effective delivery of our strategy for the long term success of the Company.
We have established leadership at the head of the Company through separate but Corporate complementary Executive and Non-Executive roles.
These roles provide a clearly fide ned division of responsibilities that allows for oversight and control Governance Report within a unitary Board.
The Board recognises that to be successful it must comprise an appropriate balance of critical attributes including skills, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge of the Company.
We have an ongoing process for assessing Board balance, including the speci c HOW WE competencies required to ful ll our roles.
FULFILL OUR The Board believes that the Company bene ts from long-serving Directors who are uniquely quali ed to lead the Board through their detailed knowledge and proven competencies.
Accordingly, the process for assessing Board COMMITMENT balance closely considers whether these bene ts are appropriately balanced by the bene ts of refreshment.
Additionally, the process for the assessment TO THE UK of each Directors independence is of prime importance to ensure that this retention of experience is balanced with a suf cient and appropriate contingent of independents.
CORPORATE The Companys programme for succession has also been conducted in full GOVERNANCE consideration of the assessment of board balance.
The Company previously reported that its succession planning was aimed at increasing both independence and diversity as a priority.
This is fully re ected in the Boards CODE recent appointments, including Ms Cynthia Cagle as an Executive Director in December 2012, followed by Ms Marianne Daryabegui as a Non-Executive Director and Mr Rob Gray as the Senior Independent Director in 2013.
These combined appointments provide the bene t of gender diversity, and increase Executive representation while also increasing the proportion of independent Non-Executive representation.
Additionally, they provide for refreshment of the Board, and add to its international diversity as well as its expertise in our Contents sector and in finance, governance, and strategic thinking.
Board of Directors p48 Chairman and Chief Executive The Directors place considerable emphasis on the annual assessment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors Board effectiveness and attention to its results.
For the third successive year Senior Independent Director the Board has utilised an external facilitator to assist in its evaluation, and Company Secretary believes this has contributed to open and frank discussion in the interest of Board Balance and Diversity improving the Boards processes, leadership and effectiveness.
Results of the Independence, Tenure and Refreshment evaluation con rm that the Directors rmly agree that the Board comprises Succession and Appointments an appropriate balance for the ful lment of its role, and that the assessment Reappointment of the independent Directors remains robust and appropriate.
Board Structure and Process p51 Con icts of Interest p51 The Board evaluation additionally addressed the manner in which the Board Accountability and Audit p51 has developed and carried out the business strategy, noting the Directors Directors and Auditors Responsibilities satisfaction with the process undertaken to implement its policy for a Going Concern sustainable return of capital to shareholders.
Risk Management and Internal Control Internal Audit Function The following pages provide further detail of how we ful l our commitment to Relations with Shareholders good corporate governance, and in particular those principles related to the Committees p53 role and effectiveness of the Board.
Audit and Risk Committee Nominations Committee Rui fide Sousa Remuneration Committee Chairman SOCO International plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Company is committed to the principles contained in the UK Corporate The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a supervisory role, contribute Governance Code the Code that was issued in 2012 by the Financial to the development of strategic proposals through constructive probing Reporting Council and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
based on review and analysis that brings to bear the particular skills, experience and knowledge each brings to the Board.
The Non-Executive The Company has applied the principles set out in the Code, including Directors review managements performance and ensure that the systems both the Main Principles and supporting principles, by complying with the in place provide adequate and effective financial, operational and Code as described within this report, the Directors Remuneration Report compliance controls and risk management.
They must be satis ed that and the Audit and Risk Committee Report.
they have suf cient information for the discharge of their duties, which may be achieved through dialogue with management, training where Statement of Compliance with the Code appropriate to update their knowledge or skills and consultation with Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company has independent professional advisors as required.
complied with the provisions set out in the Code.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director provides an independent leadership role Board of Directors to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is available to the Chairman to discuss and develop ideas to maximise the Boards effectiveness, and The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and develop as an intermediary to other Directors to ensure each individuals views are strategy, values and standards while maintaining prudent and effective fully considered in reaching unitary consensus on Board matters.
The controls to assess and manage risk.
The Board is responsible for ensuring Senior Independent Director meets at least annually with other Nonthat the Company meets its obligations to stakeholders and has adequate Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to facilitate a full and resources to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board of Directors, whose open discussion of matters including appraisal of the Boards effectiveness names and biographical details are set out on pages 42 and 43, and the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is comprises 11 Directors in addition to the Chairman.
After an assessment made available to communicate with shareholders, as described more fully process set out in more detail below, seven of these 11, including the under Relations with Shareholders below.
Senior Independent Director, have been identi ed on page 45 as independent Non-Executive Directors, after giving full consideration Company Secretary to those circumstances that the Code states may appear relevant.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is responsible for Notwithstanding this, the Board is satis ed that each of the Companys facilitating the communications and processes of the Board, both within Directors strictly abides by their legal and ethical duties owed to the the Board and its committees and with management, in compliance with Company to act objectively and in the best interests of the Company Board procedures and governance guidelines.
The Secretary facilitates an and its shareholders as a whole.
induction programme for new Directors on appointment, which is tailored to the new Directors individual quali cations and experience.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the executives and ensuring their effectiveness in the running of the Companys business and implementing strategy and policy.
Together the Chairman and Chief Executive are responsible for promoting the highest standards of integrity and probity.
THE BOARD IS Executive and Non-Executive Directors RESPONSIBLE Executive Directors are responsible for implementing the Boards agreed strategy through the development of an appropriate business plan and for executing actions approved by the Board in accordance with relevant FOR ENSURING authorities.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Directors is set by the Board.
THE COMPANY The Executive Directors provide the leadership of the senior managers in the day-to-day running of the Groups business and manage the Groups MEETS ITS risk programmes including the environmental, health, safety and social performance of the business.
They must ensure the Company has adequate financial and human resources to meet its objectives.
They are OBLIGATIONS TO responsible for reporting the performance and strategic direction of the Group to the Board and for providing accurate, timely and clear information STAKEHOLDERS to enable the Board to make sound decisions.
SOCO International plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information The Secretary provides advice and service as may be required in the Independence, Tenure and Refreshment ongoing discharge of the Directors duties, including ensuring that the The Board embraces the underlying principles of the Code provisions Company provides the necessary resources for access to independent regarding tenure and refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike an advice and any individual professional training and development needs appropriate balance between continuity of experience and succession.
The agreed with each Director.
Additionally, brie ng sessions are provided in findings of the externally facilitated Board evaluations conducted in each of the course of regular Board meetings and Committee meetings on relevant the last three years see the Nominations Committee section on page 53 issues as deemed appropriate, including in relation to corporate continue to con rm the Boards position concerning independence, which governance and social responsibility as well as new and evolving statutory emphasises that an individuals independence cannot be determined and other compliance matters.
arbitrarily on the basis of a set period of time or by a set period of concurrent tenure with an Executive Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Board Balance and Diversity Directors tenure has run concurrently with the Chief Executive and Deputy The Board recognises the need for an appropriate balance of critical Chief Executive, both of whom have been in of ce from the Companys attributes, including skills, experience, diversity, independence and initial listing.
The Company manages a portfolio of long term, complex knowledge of the Company.
The Company has an ongoing process for projects and considers a Non-Executive Directors most appropriate term assessing the speci c competencies required on the Board, giving of of ce as generally longer than that envisioned in Code guidelines.
The consideration to relevant factors arising from Board and individual Director Company bene ts from long-serving Directors who are uniquely quali ed evaluations, including effectiveness and time commitment.
Accordingly, it to contribute leadership through detailed knowledge of the Companys continually seeks, within an appropriate Board size, to manage a balance business and with the proven commitment, experience and competence to between the important elements in its composition, including Executive effectively advise and oversee the Companys management on behalf of representation, independence, diversity, tenure and refreshment.
The Company seeks to ensure its Directors are focused on a long term approach and, therefore, does not impose xed term limits The Board recognises the bene ts of diversity, and gender diversity in as this would result in a loss of experience and knowledge without particular.
The Board identi ed gender diversity as a matter for increased assuring increased independence.
Accordingly, the Boards assessment of focus in recent externally facilitated Board evaluations, as discussed under independence is of prime importance to ensure that retention of the Nominations Committee section on page 53 and in the Succession experience does not result in a failure to retain a suf cient contingent of and Appointments section below.
2013 Meeting Attendance by Directors Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Annual Board Committee Committee Committee General Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting R fide Sousa M Johns Retired 30 September 2013 O Barbaroux R Cagle C Cagle R Cathery E Contini R Gray Appointed 9 December 2013 ---- --- -- - --- -- - - - M Daryabegui Appointed 1 October 2013 A Monteiro J Norton E Story M Watts Denotes scheduled meeting attended Denotes scheduled meeting not attended - Precedes Board appointment SOCO International plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The independence of each Non-Executive Director is assessed at least In December 2012, the Board appointed Ms Cynthia Cagle as an annually.
Independence is additionally identi ed as a matter for increased Executive Director, thereby providing the bene t of gender diversity while scrutiny in the externally facilitated Board evaluation, as described more additionally increasing Executive representation with sector, finance and fully in the Nominations Committee section of this report.
To be identi ed governance experience.
In October 2013, the Board appointed Ms as independent a Director must be determined to be independent both in Marianne Daryabegui as a Non-Executive Director, further increasing the character and in judgement and free from any relationships or bene ts of gender and international diversity.
This appointment, along with circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their the December 2013 appointment of Mr Rob Gray as the Senior judgement including in particular those set out in the Code.
Particular Independent Director, has also increased Non-Executive representation scrutiny is applied in assessing the continued independence of Directors and the proportion of independent Directors, as well as providing additional having served over nine years, with attention to ensuring that interactions expertise in international finance, banking, corporate finance and strategic with Executive Directors have not in any way eroded their independence thinking.
and that their allegiance remains clearly aligned with shareholders.
Board refreshment and tenure are considered together, and weighed for relevant Following these appointments, excluding the Chairman, the Board includes bene t in the foreseeable circumstances, given further that the Board two newly appointed independent Non-Executive Directors, who serve on should not be enlarged to a size that is unwieldy.
the Board along with four long-tenured Non-Executive Directors and a further two appointed less than five years ago.
The Company considers it In conducting its current assessment of Non-Executive Director has achieved an appropriate balance between the bene ts of continuity independence, the Board referred to guidance setting out criteria deemed and refreshment.
relevant to determining whether a Director continues to exhibit those qualities and behaviours it considers essential to be considered After assessment of the competencies required, the Board is satis ed that independent.
A speci c set of focused criteria was applied to the the current Non-Executive Directors comprise an appropriate balance of assessment of long-tenured Directors.
Consideration was also given to the knowledge, skills, independence and experience.
The Company has results of individual evaluation and continued satisfactory performance as additionally sought to maximise the bene ts of independence, refreshment well as each Directors ability to allocate suf cient time to discharge their and continuity in constituting each of its Committees.
The Board will respective Board and Committee responsibilities.
continue to manage its composition in future recruiting, including an appropriate focus on independence and diversity in addition to continued Following assessment, Mr Rob Gray, Ms Marianne Daryabegui, attention to individual merit, experience and complementary Board skills.
Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts were determined to be independent.
After particular scrutiny, Mr John Norton, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery, each having served on the Board for more than nine years, were also determined to be independent.
Each of these Directors continues to display an appropriate independence from Executive Directors.
They each continue to express their individual viewpoints, debate issues and objectively scrutinise and challenge management.
Each seeks clari cation and ampli cation as deemed required, including through direct access to the Groups employees and external advisors.
After careful consideration of the relevant factors, the THE BOARD'S Board has determined that the tenure of these Directors has not affected their independence or their ability to bring judgement to bear in the RECENT discharge of their duties as Board and Committee members.
The Board considers that the varied and relevant experience of its independent Directors combined provide an exceptional balance of skills and experience APPOINTMENTS required for the business.
DEMONSTRATE Succession and Appointments Board appointments are made in consideration of objective criteria which are developed in the assessment of Board competencies and attributes.
PROGRESS ON Appointments are made through a formal process led by the Nominations Committee, which is set out in more detail in the Nominations Committee ACHIEVING THE section on page 53.
Following an appointment, the Company Secretary facilitates a process of induction and assimilation determined appropriate to the appointees particular role and experience.
OBJECTIVES OF The Companys programme for succession takes full account of the INCREASING principles for board balance, diversity, independence, tenure and refreshment set out in the sections above.
In 2011 and 2012, the Company reported that a focus on succession planning, aimed at INDEPENDENCE improving Board balance in both independence and diversity, had been established as a priority in future recruitment.
The Boards recent AND DIVERSITY appointments demonstrate progress on achieving these objectives.
SOCO International plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Reappointment Con icts of Interest In accordance with the Code, all Directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Reappointment of each Director is recommended in Directors have power to authorise, where appropriate, a situation where a consideration of the results of individual evaluation and demonstrated Director has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that con icts, or continued satisfactory performance, commitment and effectiveness.
possibly may con ict, with the Companys interests.
Such authority is in Consideration is given to the broad capabilities represented on the Board accordance with section 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
Procedures are and the ability of these to meet the unique challenges facing the Company.
in place for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation are operated Consideration is additionally given to the balance of the Boards effectively.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any con icts of composition and the need for diversity and refreshment.
A Non-Executive interest or potential con icts of interest that may arise, before they arise Director term exceeding six years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
either in relation to the Director concerned or their connected persons.
The decision to authorise each situation is considered separately on its The process for considering reappointments is described more fully in the particular facts.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter are able Nominations Committee section on page 53.
Following this process, the to take the relevant decision and must act in a way they consider, in good Board recommends the reappointment of the retiring Directors, who have faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors each offered themselves for reappointment.
The Chairman, having given will impose such limits or conditions as they deem appropriate when giving consideration to the results of the Boards formal evaluation process and authorisation or when an actual con ict arises.
These may include other relevant factors, is satis ed that the Non-Executive Directors provisions relating to con dential information, attendance at Board continue to demonstrate the commitment level appropriate and to be meetings and availability of Board papers, along with other measures as effective in ful lment of the responsibilities of the role.
The Board reviews its con ict authorisations at least annually.
Board Structure and Process Accountability and Audit The Board typically has four scheduled meetings a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
During 2013, the Board held four Directors and Auditors Responsibilities scheduled meetings as deemed required for the effective discharge of its The responsibilities of the Directors and auditors are set out in the Annual duties during the period.
There was full attendance of Directors at Report of the Directors on pages 44 to 46 and in the Independent scheduled Board meetings and full attendance of members at the Audit Auditors Report on pages 71 to 73. and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees as set out in the table below, with the exception of Mr Michael Johns and Mr Ettore Contini.
Going Concern Mr Johns ability to fully participate became limited at the sudden onset of The Groups financial statements have been prepared on a going concern ill-health, which unfortunately led to his early retirement to more fully focus basis as described in the Financial Review on page 26 and the Annual on recovery.
Mr Ettore Contini was unable to attend one Board meeting Report of the Directors on page 46. due to a familial bereavement.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Board determines the Companys business strategy and provides the The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing entrepreneurial leadership required to ensure its strategic aims can be the effectiveness of a sound system of internal control which is designed achieved.
The Board operates within a formal framework of decision to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial making designed to reserve matters of establishing the strategy, business information and to safeguard the shareholders investment and the assets plan and nature or scope of the Companys business to the Board.
Under of the Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations in any system of this framework, authority for implementing the strategy and decisions taken internal control, even a sound system can only provide reasonable by the Board is largely delegated to the Executive Directors and assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the Company will not be management within a system of internal controls designed to enable the hindered in achieving its business objectives or be protected against risks of the Group to be managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has material misstatement or loss.
The Board has put in place formally fide ned established clear expectations for the Companys economic, social and lines of responsibility and delegation of authority and has delegated to environmental conduct to promote the highest level of integrity and honesty executive management the implementation of material internal control in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
Documented policies and procedures are in place for key comprises a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience, which is systems and processes and the authority of the Directors is required for critical to the success of the Company.
The Board functions as a unitary key matters.
body, within which Directors assume certain roles to ensure the Board as a whole ful ls its responsibilities.
These roles, including committee A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for all items of expenditure memberships, are designed to maximise the effective contribution of each and an annual budget is approved by the Board.
Actual results are of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, its committees and to the reported against budget on a regular basis.
Revised forecasts for the year Executive Directors, while ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained.
and longer term financial projections are produced regularly throughout The composition of the Board and its committees is in accordance with the year.
At least annually, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executives present and, led by the Senior Independent Director, The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major business meet without the Chairman present.
Such meetings are conducted in the risks facing the Company and Group and developing appropriate policies spirit of good governance and process, and are intended to ensure a forum to manage those risks.
The risk management approach is used to focus for open dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
attention on the Groups most signi cant areas of risk and to determine SOCO International plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued key control objectives.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code, by shareholders can electronically interface with executive management.
At a establishing a continuous process, which has been in place throughout the minimum, the Company provides three personal communication forums year to the date of this report and which is in accordance with revised annually the Annual General Meeting AGM, the presentation of Annual guidance on internal control published by the Financial Reporting Council Results and the presentation of Half Year Results whereby shareholders in 2005 the Turnbull Guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing can directly interface with Company executive management.
Notice of the the signi cant risks the Group faces.
AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting, and resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate The Board regularly reviews the process, which is constantly evolving to issue.
The result of proxy voting is announced after votes are taken on a meet the demands of a dynamic environment.
Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the effectiveness of the shareholder questions and to respond to any speci c queries.
Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed by the The Company has assigned a senior executive the responsibility for Directors.
The review is based principally on discussions with management investor relations and has employed an outside agency, both to provide and on reviewing reports provided by management to consider whether assistance in the dissemination of information to shareholders and the signi cant risks are identi ed, evaluated, managed and controlled, but also general public and to actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of may include independent interaction with employees or third parties.
Additionally, the Company maintains an ongoing, active Particular scrutiny is applied to the review of controls applicable to new or dialogue with institutional shareholders, speci cally and proactively evolving areas of risks as they are identi ed.
seeking opportunities for face-to-face meetings at least twice a year, coincident with half-year and full-year results, between fund managers The Board considers whether appropriate actions are taken promptly to and Company executive management.
In 2013, the Company has correct any signi cant weaknesses identi ed, and if more extensive continued an increased dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders monitoring may be required.
The Board con rms that such actions as regarding its corporate social responsibility policies and procedures.
deemed necessary and appropriate have been or are being taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed in its review.
The Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Board meetings and public Board seeks to ensure that internal control and risk management relations and analysts reports are distributed to the full Board.
Nonprocesses, including dealing with any identi ed areas of improvement, are Executive Directors are made available to communicate with SOCOs embedded within the business.
major institutional shareholders, and particularly to be responsive when additional communication from the Chairman, Senior Independent Director The Board has performed a speci c assessment for the purpose of this or other Non-Executive Directors has been requested.
The Chairman Annual Report and Accounts, which considers all signi cant aspects of regularly interfaces with other principal shareholders.
The Board considers internal control arising during the period, and is satis ed with the process whether additional communication may be appropriate or desirable.
In employed and the results thereof.
The Audit and Risk Committee particular, the delegated role of the Senior Independent Director includes spearheads the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Audit and being available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be fully Risk Committee membership comprises highly experienced professionals or appropriately addressed by the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
with complementary areas of expertise in the oil and gas sector and each Committee member makes an important contribution to the assurance process.
Each member undertakes speci c review processes in their areas of financial and audit, technical and operating, diplomatic and commercial expertise and reports the results of their work to the full Committee and to the Board.
Internal Audit Function Although the Company does not currently have an internal audit function, THE COMPANY the Directors review at least annually the need to establish such a function.
The Companys current staff size limits the ability to form an effective HAS ASSIGNED internal audit function and, accordingly, the Company outsources any internal audit requirements.
A SENIOR Relations with Shareholders The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring effective EXECUTIVE THE communication is maintained with key stakeholders and partners, including establishing an appropriate level of contact with major shareholders and ensuring that their views are communicated to the RESPONSIBILITY Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for taking suf cient steps to understand these views, including any issues or concerns.
FOR INVESTOR SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with shareholders.
The Company maintains a website wherein important information can be RELATIONS posted and disseminated promptly to a wide audience and through which SOCO International plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St rategic Report Go vernance Financial Statements Additional Information Committees Executives present, was held during two of these meetings.
Additionally, a number of other informal meetings and communications took place The Board has established three Committees, as described below, each between the Chairman, various Committee members, external auditors having formal terms of reference TOR approved by the Board which set and the Companys executives and employees.
out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, which are available on the Companys website www.
com, are set in consideration As part of the Board Evaluation process described on page 54, the of the provisions of the Code and are reviewed from time to time in the Committee considered its performance and continued effectiveness.
The context of evolving guidance.
Committee memberships are reviewed in Committee performed a review of its TOR as part of this process.
order to ensure optimum utilisation of competencies on the Board while maintaining a balance between the bene ts of refreshment and continuity.
A separate Report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out on pages 55 Each Directors speci c Committee memberships, including as Chairmen, and 56 and provides details of the role and activities of the Committee and are set out on page 42.
Attendance at scheduled committee meetings by its relationship with the external auditors.
all members serving during the period is set out in the table on page 49.
While only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings and vote, Nominations Committee Directors in advisory roles are generally invited to attend and other The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Rui fide Sousa, the Directors may be invited to attend from time to time to ensure the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company.
Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive Committees responsibilities are undertaken with access to the Boards full Of cer, serves as a Committee member along with independent breadth of knowledge and experience.
The Company Secretary ensures Non-Executive Directors Dr Mike Watts, Ambassador Antnio Monteiro that the Company additionally provides such resources as the Committees and Ms Marianne Daryabegui.
In addition, Mr John Norton, Mr Olivier require in the discharge of their duties.
Barbaroux and Mr Robert Cathery act as Advisors to the Nominations Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee The name of this Committee has been expanded to highlight that its The Committee meets at least once a year.
Its primary responsibilities responsibilities extend beyond audit, and include the important role of include making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management and reappointment of Directors and Committee memberships.
The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Dr Mike Watts and responsible for review and recommendations regarding overall Board additionally comprises Mr Rob Gray, who is the Senior Independent structure and composition, succession planning and establishing an Non-Executive Director, and Ms Marianne Daryabegui, Ambassador ongoing process for evaluating the Board and its members.
Further details Antnio Monteiro and Mr John Norton, all of whom are independent of the discharge of these responsibilities are set out below in addition to Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Olivier Barbaroux acts as an Advisor to the sections above regarding in particular board balance, independence, Committee.
The quali cations of each of the members are set out on diversity, succession and appointments.
The Board is satis ed that the collective experience of the members provides the complement of skills required for the effective The Committee held two meetings in 2013 and has conducted one discharge of its functions.
Dr Watts, with extensive exploration and meeting to date in 2014.
Other Non-Executive Directors were in technical expertise in the sector, is a strong leader for the Committees attendance at a portion of these meetings by invitation.
Certain Committee oversight of the Groups business risks, and in particular those which could functions were delegated to a subcommittee, which acted on behalf of the have a signi cant impact on the financial statements.
Mr Norton has Committee after an appropriate dialogue among Committee members to extensive experience as a Chartered Accountant in the oil and gas sector, ensure a consensus of views.
A number of other informal meetings and and is supremely quali ed to lead the Committees oversight of the communications took place between the Chairman, various Committee external audit.
Although Mr Norton is a longstanding Director, his and Board members and the Companys executives and employees.
professional experience has fully prepared him for maintaining Additionally, the Chairman led discussions of certain Committee matters in independence and objectivity in this circumstance and the Board is view of the full Board to expedite unitary decision making.
completely satis ed that these attributes are diligently applied in the discharge of his duties.
In particular, the other Committee members who During the year the Committee reviewed Board structure, size and work alongside him in the conduct of Committee duties are completely composition, including a pro le of the skills, knowledge, experience and satis ed that he has demonstrated continued independence in performing diversity represented on the Board, which was utilised to facilitate the his role.
The appointments of Ms Daryabegui and Mr Gray have refreshed Boards review of Director independence, including tenure in particular.
the Committees independent membership and have added relevant The Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning plans for financial experience to the Committee.
succession re ecting the need for refreshment while taking into account the skills, experience and diversity needed on the Board to best meet the The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Chief speci c challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The results of Financial Of cer and a representative of the external auditors are normally these reviews were in turn utilised in developing the Committees invited to attend meetings.
Other Directors are invited to attend as recommendations regarding potential Board appointments as well as for determined appropriate or bene cial.
At least once a year the Committee continuation in of ce and reappointment of retiring Directors.
meets with the external auditors without executive Board members present.
After giving consideration to Board structure and composition, evaluations, time commitments, length of service, individual contributions, refreshment The Committee held three meetings in 2013 and has conducted one and the requirements of the Board, the Committee recommended that meeting to date in 2014, all of which were attended by executive each of the retiring Directors be proposed for reappointment by the Board management and external auditors.
A private session, without the at the forthcoming AGM.
SOCO International plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Process for Board Appointments Board Evaluation The Board has a policy in place for succession planning, which addresses During 2013, the Committee led the Board in evaluating its own its approach to maintaining a balanced Board, including the bene ts of performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Committee has a process in place for identifying and third successive year the evaluation was externally facilitated in con dence nominating candidates to ll vacancies which may arise from time to time, by Nautilus Management Limited, an independent rm that has provided including ensuring Board membership is suf ciently refreshed and retains secretariat and governance advice to the Company.
The evaluation an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The Committee develops entailed both questionnaires and interviews including discussion regarding an appropriate description of the role, estimated time commitment and the any changes to answers provided in the previous evaluations.
The external capabilities and attributes which would complement the composition of the facilitator sought evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness as a whole, Board and its Committees.
The Committee would expect to utilise an but with an emphasis on the critical issues the Board will face in the next independent external advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of three to five years and with increased scrutiny in areas including Board candidates is compiled and a rigorous review process undertaken, balance, strategy, corporate social responsibility, Director independence, involving other Board members as deemed appropriate.
recommendations, which are to be made on merit set against objective criteria and with due regard for the bene ts of diversity, are submitted for The process was undertaken to enhance the quality of the Board and to full Board approval.
The Company Secretary facilitates induction upon improve its procedures through identifying and addressing strengths and appointment.
The Chairman led discussions with the Committee and the full Board regarding the results, which included a commitment by the As noted in the Succession and Appointments section at page 50, in 2011 Board to continue its primary focus on corporate strategy and corporate and 2012 the Company reported that a focus on succession planning, social responsibility.
The Board con rmed its commitment to a rigorous aimed at increasing Board balance in both independence and diversity, process for the assessment of independence and remains satis ed that it had been established as a priority in future recruitment.
Over an extended has led to an appropriate designation of independent Directors.
The Board period of time, Directors were encouraged to be attentive to identifying was satis ed with the measured achievements of it objectives to increase candidates who would meet one or both of these objectives.
This was Board balance in both independence and diversity, and maintains a focus established as an agenda item at Board meetings, in preparation for on succession planning.
Management committed to continue to develop expansion of the Board at an appropriate time, and intended to be utilised its reporting to the Board on governance and corporate social responsibility as an aid in instructing an external search rm in due course.
As a result, programmes, including detailed and regular reporting to the Board on the upon the unfortunate and unexpected retirement of Mr Michael Johns due Companys extensive stakeholder engagement.
Additionally, the evaluation to illness, the Board already had an active list of high quality potential results were utilised to assess Director effectiveness, time commitments of candidates.
In this instance, it was agreed to progress discussions in the Non-Executive Directors and training and development needs of each immediate term with two of these candidates, which the Board believed Director, which were reviewed by the Chairman.
The Committee would further its objectives with regards to gender diversity and performed a review of its TOR as part of this process.
independence and add complementary skills to the Board.
A process for formal interviews, due diligence and decision taking was established.
Remuneration Committee While independent external advisors were utilised to aid in the due The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ambassador Antnio Monteiro diligence and vetting process, these were not strictly acting in the capacity and additionally comprises Mr Rob Gray, who is the Senior Independent of an external search rm.
It was agreed that an external search rm Director, and independent Non-Executive Directors Ms Marianne would be engaged for this process if either of these two candidates did not Daryabegui and Dr Mike Watts.
In addition Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr progress to appointment in the near term.
Additionally, the Board would Robert Cathery act as Advisors.
The quali cations of each of the members continue to expect to utilise an external advisor to facility any future search are set out on page 43. in accordance with its usual practice.
The Committee held two meetings in 2013 and has held one meeting to Following the process described above, in October 2013, the Committee date in 2014.
The Committee additionally held informal meetings with recommended to the Board that Ms Marianne Daryabegui be appointed as management and advisors, in particular to review the implementation of a Non-Executive Director.
Ms Daryabegui is currently the Managing the revised Accounting Regulations of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Director of the Corporate Finance Oil & Gas team at BNP Paribas in the requirements for the contents of the Directors Remuneration Report.
France, and has additionally been appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, as well as the Remuneration and Nominations As part of the Board Evaluation process described above, the Committee Committees.
In December 2013, the Committee recommended to the considered its performance and continued effectiveness.
The Committee Board that Mr Rob Gray be appointed as a Non-Executive Director and as performed a review of its TOR as part of this process.
the Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Gray brings a wide The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the range of skills to the Board having been an advisor to the natural resources Chairman and the Executive Directors, and is responsible for appointing sector for more than 30 years.
any consultants it may utilise in carrying out its duties.
Details of the Committees activities, policies and objectives are set out in the Directors The Committee additionally put recommendations before the Board for the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 69. appointment of Ambassador Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts to chair the Remuneration Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee, respectively.
SOCO International plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
