Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Leif Johansson Chairman judgement in respect of Board decisions, Reserved matters and delegation This Corporate Governance and for scrutinising and challenging of authority Report describes how the Group management.
The Non-Executive Directors The Board maintains and periodically is organised, including the overall also have various responsibilities concerning reviews a list of matters that are reserved structure and principal roles and the integrity of financial information, internal to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
These include: the appointment, termination responsibilities of the Board, its and remuneration of any Director: approval The Board conducts an annual review Committees and the SET.
of the annual budget: approval of any item of the Groups overall strategy.
The CEO, of fixed capital expenditure or any proposal Board composition the CFO and the SET take the lead in for the acquisition or disposal of an The membership of the Board at developing our strategy, which is then investment or business which exceeds 31 December 2013 and information about reviewed, constructively challenged and $150 million: the raising of capital or loans individual Directors is contained in the Board approved by the Board.
by the Company subject to certain of Directors section on pages 28 and 29.
John Varley, who joined the Board as exceptions : the giving of any guarantee Corporate governance a Non-Executive Director in 2006, was in respect of any borrowing of the Company: We have prepared this Annual Report with appointed as our Senior independent and allotting shares of the Company.
reference to the UK Corporate Governance Non-Executive Director in April 2012.
The matters that have not been expressly Code published by the UK Financial The role of the Senior independent reserved to the Board are either delegated Reporting Council FRC in September Non-Executive Director is to provide a by the Board to its Committees or to 2012.
This Corporate Governance Report sounding board for the Chairman and the CEO.
together with other sections of this Annual to serve as an intermediary for the other The CEO is responsible to the Board Report describes how we apply the main Directors when necessary.
The Senior for the management, development and principles of good governance in the UK independent Non-Executive Director is performance of our business for those Corporate Governance Code.
We have also available to shareholders if they have matters in respect of which he has been complied throughout the accounting period concerns that contact through the normal delegated authority from the Board.
with the provisions of the UK Corporate channels of Chairman or Executive Directors Although the CEO retains full responsibility Governance Code, which is available on has failed to resolve, or for which such for the authority delegated to him by the FRCs website, www.
the Board, he has established, and chairs, Leadership and responsibilities There are four principal Board Committees: the SET, which is the vehicle through which The roles of Chairman and CEO are the Audit Committee: the Remuneration he exercises that authority in respect of split.
Leif Johansson, our Non-Executive Committee: the Nomination and Governance our business.
Chairman, is responsible for leadership of Committee: and the Science Committee.
The roles of the Board, the Board the Board.
Our CEO, Pascal Soriot, leads The membership and work of these Committees, the Chairman and the CEO the SET and has executive responsibility for Committees is described below.
In addition, are documented, as are the Boards running our business.
The Board comprises there may from time to time be constituted reserved powers and delegated authorities.
10 Non-Executive Directors, including the ad hoc Board Committees for specific Chairman, and two Executive Directors projects or tasks.
In these cases, the scope Operation of the Board the CEO, Pascal Soriot, and the CFO, and responsibilities of the Committee are The Board is responsible for setting our Marc Dunoyer.
The Board provides adequate strategy and policies, oversight of risk resources to enable each Committee to and corporate governance, and monitors All Directors are collectively responsible for undertake its duties.
progress towards meeting our objectives the success of the Group.
In addition, the and annual plans.
The Board discharges Non-Executive Directors are responsible these responsibilities through a programme for exercising independent, objective 88 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information It is my role as Chairman to lead the Board effectively.
To my mind, good governance is at the heart ofthat.
Length of tenure of Gender split Directors nationalities Non-Executive Directors years of Directors Under 3 years: 3 69 years: 3 Male 9 American 1 Leif Johansson Jean-Philippe Courtois Female 3 British 5 Genevive Berger John Varley French 4 Graham Chipchase Nancy Rothwell Swedish 2 36 years: 3 9 years: 1 Shriti Vadera Marcus Wallenberg Bruce Burlington Rudy Markham of meetings that includes regular reviews of As part of the business of each Board Board effectiveness financial performance and critical business meeting, the CEO typically submits a Composition of the Board, issues, and the formal annual strategy progress report, giving details of business succession planning and diversity review day.
The Board also aims to ensure performance and progress against the The Nomination and Governance that a good dialogue with our shareholders goals the Board has approved.
To ensure Committee and, where appropriate, the full is maintained and that their issues and that the Board has good visibility of the Board, regularly review the composition of concerns are understood and considered.
key operating decisions of the business, the Board and the status of succession to members of the SET attend Board meetings both senior executive management and The Board held 11 meetings in 2013, on a regular basis and Board members Board-level positions.
Directors have regular including its usual annual strategy review.
meet other senior executives throughout the contact with, and access to, succession Four of those meetings were telephone year.
The Board also receives accounting candidates for senior executive or, in one case, videoconference meetings, and other management information about management positions.
some convened at short notice, at which our resources, and presentations from business development transactions were The Board aims to maintain a balance internal and external speakers on legal, discussed and approved.
All of the meetings in terms of the range of experience and governance and regulatory developments.
held in person took place in London, UK skills of individual Board members, which At the end of Board meetings, the with the exception of the meeting in July includes relevant international business, Non-Executive Directors meet without the 2013, which took place at MedImmunes pharmaceutical industry and financial Executive Directors present to review and site in Cambridge, UK, and the meeting experience, as well as appropriate scientific discuss any matters that have arisen during in September 2013, which took place and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies the meeting and or such other matters as at MedImmunes site in Gaithersburg, of Board members set out on pages 28 may appear to the Non-Executive Directors Maryland, US.
The Board is currently and 29 give more information about current to be relevant in properly discharging their scheduled to meet six times in 2014, Directors in this respect.
The Board views duty to act independently.
and will meet at such other times as may be required to conduct business.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 89 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science Independent Genevive Berger 3 3 Bruce Burlington 3 3 3 Graham Chipchase 3 3 Jean-Philippe Courtois 3 3 Marc Dunoyer n a 2 Leif Johansson 3 Chair n a Rudy Markham Chair 3 3 3 Nancy Rothwell 3 3 Chair 3 Pascal Soriot n a Shriti Vadera 3 3 John Varley Chair 3 3 Marcus Wallenberg 3 1 As determined by the Board for UK Corporate Governance Code purposes.
2 Leif Johansson was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
gender, nationality and cultural diversity exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board a breach of the Directors duty, under section among Board members as important considers that all of the Non-Executive 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board considerations when reviewing the Directors are independent.
Leif Johansson has a formal system in place for Directors to composition of the Board.
The Board was considered by the Board to be declare such situations to be considered recognises, in particular, the importance independent upon his appointment as for authorisation by those Directors who of gender diversity.
In accordance with the UK have no interest in the matter being Companys Non-Executive Directors are Corporate Governance Code, the test of considered.
In deciding whether to women and they make up 25% of the full independence is not appropriate in relation authorise a situation, the non-conflicted Board.
Since the formation of AstraZeneca to the Chairman after his appointment.
Directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to in 1999, the proportion of female Board Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as promote the success of the Company, and members has been approximately 25%.
a Director of Astra in May 1989 and they may impose limits or conditions when Although it has not set any specific subsequently became a Director of the giving the authorisation, or subsequently, measurable objectives, the Board intends Company in 1999.
He is a Non-Executive if they think this is appropriate.
Situations to continue with its current approach to Director of Investor AB, which has a 4.09% considered by the Board and authorisations diversity in all its aspects, while at the same interest in the issued share capital of the given are recorded in the Board minutes time seeking Board members of the highest Company as at 31 January 2014.
A number and in a register of conflicts maintained calibre, and with the necessary experience of Wallenberg charitable foundations have by the Company Secretary, and are and skills to meet the needs of the Company connections to Mr Wallenberg and to reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board and its shareholders.
Information about our Investor AB.
For these reasons, the Board considers that this system continues to approach to diversity in the organisation does not believe that he can be determined operate effectively.
below Board-level can be found in the independent under the UK Corporate Employees section from page 66.
However, the Board Appointments to the Board The following changes to the composition believes that he has brought, and continues The Nomination and Governance Committee of the Board have occurred during the to bring, considerable business experience section on page 93 gives information about period covered by this Annual Report: and makes a valuable contribution to the the appointment process for new Directors.
In April 2010, he was Simon Lowth served as an Executive Newly appointed Directors are provided appointed as a member of the Science Director and CFO until 31 October 2013 with comprehensive documentation Committee, reflecting his interest in when he left the Company containing information about the Group innovation and R&D, knowledge of the Marc Dunoyer was appointed as an and their role as Non-Executive Directors.
history of the Company and its scientific Executive Director and as CFO with They also typically attend tailored induction heritage and culture, and his broad effect from 1 November 2013. programmes that take account of their experience of other industries and individual skills and experience.
Independence of the Non-Executive businesses in which innovation and R&D Directors Time commitment are important determinants of success.
During 2013, the Board considered the Our expectation is that Non-Executive Conflicts of interest independence of each Non-Executive Directors should be prepared to commit The Articles enable the Directors to Director for the purposes of the UK 15 days a year, as an absolute minimum, authorise any situation in which a Director Corporate Governance Code and the to the Groups business.
In practice, Board has an interest that conflicts or has the corporate governance listing standards members time commitment exceeds this potential to conflict with the Companys of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the minimum expectation when all the work that interests and which would otherwise be 90 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2013 Nomination Board Board and 1 2 Name scheduled unscheduled Audit Remuneration Governance Science Genevive Berger 6 6 5 5 4 6 Bruce Burlington 6 6 4 5 5 5 6 6 Graham Chipchase 6 6 2 5 5 5 Jean-Philippe Courtois 5 6 2 5 4 5 3 Marc Dunoyer 1 1 1 1 1 1 Leif Johansson 6 6 5 5 13 13 4 4 4 Simon Lowth 5 5 4 4 4 4 Rudy Markham 6 6 4 5 5 5 9 11 4 4 Nancy Rothwell 6 6 4 5 10 13 2 4 6 6 Pascal Soriot 6 6 5 5 3 5 Shriti Vadera 6 6 5 5 5 5 John Varley 6 6 4 5 13 13 4 4 Marcus Wallenberg 6 6 5 5 5 6 Note: number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year that Board members were entitled to attend.
1 The Board held five unscheduled meetings during the year, some convened at short notice, at which business development transactions were discussed and approved.
2 The Remuneration Committee met 13 times during the year.
Two of those meetings dealt only with remuneration arrangements for Simon Lowth.
Rudy Markham did not attend those meetings.
Mr Markham has always refrained from participating in discussions and decisions relating to Mr Lowths remuneration in the light of both he and Mr Lowth being non-executive directors at another company.
3 Marc Dunoyer was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013.
4 Simon Lowth left the Board on 31 October 2013. they undertake for the Group is considered, The Company maintained Directors discussion with the Chairman, their particularly in the case of the Chairman of and Officers Liability Insurance cover contribution to the work of the Board the Board and the Chairmen of the Board throughout 2013.
The Directors are also and personal development needs were Committees.
As well as their work in relation able to obtain independent legal advice considered.
Each Director continues to to formal Board and Board Committee at the expense of the Company, as perform effectively and to demonstrate meetings, the Non-Executive Directors necessary, in their capacity as Directors.
In addition, also commit time throughout the year to led by the Senior independent NonThe Company has entered into a deed of meetings and telephone calls with various Executive Director, the other Non-Executive indemnity in favour of each Board member levels of executive management, visits to Directors absent the Chairman evaluated since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are AstraZenecas sites throughout the world the performance of the Chairman.
The still in force and provide that the Company and, for new Non-Executive Directors, Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest induction sessions and site visits.
Committees led reviews relating to their extent permitted by law and the Articles, Committees.
It was concluded that both On occasions when a Director is in respect of all losses arising out of, or Committees are operating effectively.
unavoidably absent from a Board or Board in connection with, the execution of their Committee meeting, for example where powers, duties and responsibilities, as The Boards annual performance evaluation a meeting clashes with his or her existing Directors of the Company or any of its was last externally facilitated in 2011.
The commitments, he or she still receives and subsidiaries.
This is in line with current Board intends to continue to comply with reviews the papers for the meeting and market practice and helps us attract and the UK Corporate Governance Code typically provides verbal or written input retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
guidance that the evaluation should be ahead of the meeting, usually through the externally facilitated at least every three Performance evaluation Chairman of the Board or the Chairman years and expects to commission an The Board conducted an annual evaluation of the relevant Board Committee, so that  review in 2014. of its performance and that of individual his or her views are made known and Directors in respect of 2013.
The evaluation Re-election of Directors considered at the meeting.
In addition, involved a series of discussions between In accordance with Article 66 of the given the nature of the business to be the Chairman and individual Directors.
The Articles, all Directors retire at each AGM conducted, some Board meetings are themes arising from these discussions were and may offer themselves for re-election convened at short notice, which can make considered at the Board meeting held in by shareholders.
Accordingly, all of the it difficult for some Directors to attend due February 2014.
A number of areas were Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2014. to prior commitments.
reviewed, including the size and composition The Notice of AGM will give details of those Information and support of the Board: Board processes and support: Directors seeking re-election.
The Company Secretary is responsible the content of Board agendas: and how the Accountability to the Chairman for ensuring that all Board approached strategy, governance Risk management and internal control Board and Board Committee meetings and succession planning.
Some The Board has overall responsibility for are properly conducted, that the Directors improvements to ways of working were our system of internal controls and risk receive appropriate information prior proposed but overall the Board was management policies and is also to meetings to enable them to make an considered to be operating effectively.
responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
effective contribution, and that governance As part of each Directors individual During 2013, the Directors continued to requirements are considered and review the effectiveness of our system of implemented.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 91 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report controls, risk management and our high We make information about the Group We also respond to individual ad hoc level internal control processes.
These available to shareholders through a range requests for discussions from institutional reviews have included an assessment of of media, including our corporate website, shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor internal controls and, in particular, financial, www.
com, containing a Relations team acts as the main point of operational and compliance controls, and wide range of data of interest to institutional contact for investors throughout the year.
risk management and their effectiveness, and private investors.
We consider our As discussed above, the Senior independent supported by management assurance of website to be an important means of Non-Executive Director, John Varley, is the maintenance of controls reports from communication with our shareholders.
also available to shareholders if they have IA, as well as the external auditor on matters concerns that contact through the normal The Company has been authorised identified in the course of its statutory audit channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO by shareholders to place shareholder work.
The system is designed to manage has failed to resolve, or in relation to communications such as the Notice rather than eliminate the risk of failure to which such contact is inappropriate.
All of AGM and this Annual Report on the achieve business objectives and can only shareholders, including private investors, corporate website in lieu of sending paper provide reasonable not necessarily have an opportunity at the AGM to put copies to shareholders unless specifically absolute assurance of effective operation questions to members of the Board about requested.
While recognising and and compliance with laws and regulations.
Formal respecting the fact that some of our notification of the AGM is sent to Underpinning these reviews is an annual shareholders may have different preferences shareholders at least one month in advance.
letter of assurance process by which about how they receive information from The Board ordinarily attends the AGM to responsible managers confirm the adequacy us, we will continue to promote the benefits answer questions raised by shareholders.
of their systems of internal financial and of electronic communication given the In line with the UK Corporate Governance non-financial controls, their compliance advantages that this has over traditional Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, with Group policies and relevant laws paper-based communications, both in including votes withheld, are given at the and regulations including the industrys terms of the configurability and accessibility AGM and are posted on our website regulatory requirements, and that they have of the information provided and the following the AGM.
reported any control weaknesses through consequent cost savings and reduction our continuous assurance process.
Audit Committee The principal role of the Audit Committee We have frequent discussions with The internal control framework was in is to provide assurance to the Board in institutional shareholders on a range operation throughout 2013 and continues the following areas: the integrity of our of issues.
In December 2013, we held to operate up to the date of the approval financial reporting and internal controls a meeting with a number of our major of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe over financial matters: our internal controls shareholders which was attended by the that the Group maintains an effective, over non-financial matters, compliance Chairman of the Board, Leif Johansson: embedded system of internal controls with laws and our Code of Conduct: the the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and complies with the FRCs guidance Companys relationship with its external Rudy Markham: and the Chairman of entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance auditor: and the appropriateness of the the Remuneration Committee and Senior to Directors formerly referred to as the Companys risk management framework: independent Non-Executive Director, Turnbull Report guidance and, in the view in each case with the ultimate aim of of the Directors, no significant deficiencies John Varley.
At the meeting we outlined our protecting our shareholders interests.
have been identified in the system.
approach to some of the more substantive For more information, please see the components of our remuneration policy and Further information about the ways in which Audit Committee Report from page 98. also had the opportunity to discuss matters we manage our business risks is set out in of relevance to the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee the Risk section from page 199, which also In addition to holding discussions with The principal role of the Remuneration contains a list of the principal risks and groups of shareholders, we also hold Committee is to consider and set, on behalf uncertainties that we face.
individual meetings with some of our largest of the Board, the remuneration including Remuneration institutional shareholders to seek their views.
pension rights and compensation payments Information about our approach to Board members are kept informed of any of Executive Directors and other senior remuneration and the role and work of the issues, and receive regular reports and executives.
It also considers and sets Remuneration Committee, including our presentations from executive management the remuneration of the Chairman, in policy on executive remuneration, is set and our brokers in order to assist them conjunction with the Senior independent out in the Governance and Remuneration to develop an understanding of major Non-Executive Director and in the absence section from page 26 and in more detail shareholders views about the Group.
No Director is involved in in the Directors Remuneration Report From time to time, we conduct an audit deciding his or her own remuneration.
from page 102. of institutional shareholders to ensure More information is set out in the Directors that we are communicating clearly with Remuneration Report from page 102.
Relations with shareholders them and that a high quality dialogue In our financial and business reporting to is being maintained.
The results of this shareholders and other interested parties by audit are reported to, and discussed by, means of quarterly, half-yearly and annual the full Board.
reports, we aim to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our strategy, financial position and prospects.
92 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Nomination and Governance Neither MWM Consulting nor The Zygos The Science Committee met two times Committee Partnership has any other connection to in person in 2013, in Mlndal, Sweden The Nomination and Governance the Company.
Spencer Stuart undertakes and in Cambridge, Massachusetts, US, Committees role is to recommend to the executive search assignments for the and held four other meetings, the majority Board any new Board appointments and Company periodically.
of which were by telephone, to review to consider, more broadly, succession plans specific business development or The individual attendance record of the at Board level.
It continually reviews the acquisition proposals.
Nomination and Governance Committees composition of the Board using a matrix that members is set out on page 91.
The Science Committees terms of records the skills and experience of current reference are available on our website, The Nomination and Governance Board members, comparing this with the www.
Committees terms of reference are available desired skills and experience it believes on our website, www.
are appropriate to the Companys overall US corporate governance business and strategic needs, both now requirements Science Committee and in the future.
Any decisions relating to Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, The Science Committees core role is to the appointment of Directors are made by accordingly, we are subject to the reporting provide assurance to the Board regarding the entire Board based on the merits of and other requirements of the SEC the quality, competitiveness and integrity the candidates and the relevance of their applicable to foreign private issuers.
Section of the Groups R&D activities by way of background and experience, measured 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires meetings and dialogue with our R&D against objective criteria, with care taken companies to include in their annual report leaders and other scientist employees: to ensure that appointees have enough on Form 20-F filed with the SEC, a report visits to our R&D sites throughout the world: time to devote to our business.
by management stating its responsibility for and review and assessment of: establishing internal control over financial The Nomination and Governance the approaches we adopt in respect reporting and to assess annually the Committee also advises the Board of our chosen therapy areas effectiveness of such internal control.
periodically on significant developments in the scientific technology and R&D We have complied with those provisions corporate governance and the Companys capabilities we deploy of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to compliance with the UK Corporate the decision-making processes for R&D foreign private issuers.
The Board continues Governance Code.
projects and programmes to believe that the Group has a sound During 2013, the Chairman of the the quality of our scientists, their career corporate governance framework, good Nomination and Governance Committee opportunities and talent development processes for the accurate and timely was Leif Johansson.
The members benchmarking against industry and reporting of its financial position and results of the Nomination and Governance scientific best practice, where of operations, and an effective and robust Committee were Rudy Markham, appropriate.
We have Nancy Rothwell and John Varley.
Each established a Disclosure Committee, The Science Committee periodically reviews of them is a Non-Executive Director further details of which can be found in the important bioethical issues that we face, and considered independent by the Disclosure Committee section overleaf.
and assists in the formulation of, and agrees Board.
The Company Secretary acts on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies The Directors assessment of the as secretary to the Nomination and in relation to such issues.
It may also effectiveness of internal control over Governance Committee.
consider, from time to time, future trends financial reporting is set out in the Directors in medical science and technology.
The The Nomination and Governance Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Science Committee does not review Committee considers both planned Control over Financial Reporting section individual R&D projects but does review and unplanned unanticipated succession in the Financial Statements on page 127. on behalf of the Board the R&D aspects scenarios and met four times in 2013.
We are required to disclose any significant of specific business development or During the summer of 2013, the search ways in which our corporate governance acquisition proposals and advises the firm Spencer Stuart was engaged to practices differ from those followed by US Board on its conclusions.
identify potential candidates for the companies under the Listing Standards.
position of Executive Director and CFO During 2013, the members of the In addition, we must comply fully with the following Simon Lowths decision to Science Committee, all of whom have a provisions of the Listing Standards relating leave the Company.
A number of external knowledge of, or an interest in, life sciences, to the composition, responsibilities and candidates were identified although, were Nancy Rothwell Chairman of the operation of audit committees, applicable ultimately, an internal candidate was Science Committee, Genevive Berger, to foreign private issuers.
These provisions preferred and the Nomination and Bruce Burlington and Marcus Wallenberg.
incorporate the rules concerning audit Governance Committee recommended The EVP, GMD: the EVP, IMED: and the committees implemented by the SEC under to the Board the appointment of Marc EVP, MedImmune attended meetings the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed Dunoyer as an Executive Director and of the Science Committee in 2013.
The the corporate governance practices CFO.
This appointment took effect on Vice-President, IMED Operations acts required to be followed by US companies 1November2013.
as secretary to the Science Committee.
under the Listing Standards and our As part of routine succession planning corporate governance practices are during the year, the Nomination and generally consistent with those standards.
Governance Committee also engaged MWM Consulting and The Zygos Partnership to assist it with searches for new Non-Executive Directors.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 93 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report Business organisation Late Stage Product Committee processes are operating for our planned Senior Executive Team The LSPC is also a senior-level governance disclosures, such as our quarterly results The CEO is responsible for establishing, body, accountable for the quality of the announcements and scheduled investor and chairs, the SET.
The SET normally portfolio post-Phase III investment decision.
meets once a month or as otherwise It was formed in early 2013, replacing three Disclosure of information to auditors required by business need, to consider committees, in a move to streamline The Directors who held office at the date major business issues, and makes development project governance.
Jointly of approval of this Annual Report confirm recommendations to the CEO.
Typically, chaired by the EVPs of GMD and GPPS, that, so far as they are each aware, there it also reviews, in advance of submission members include, as appropriate, members is no relevant audit information of which to the Board, those matters which are of the SET, including the CEO and the CFO, the Companys auditors are unaware: and to be submitted to the Board for review and members of the GMD and GPPS each Director has taken all the steps that and decision.
he or she ought to have taken as a Director In addition to the CEO, the CFO, the The LSPC seeks to maximise the value to make himself or herself aware of any General Counsel, and the Chief Compliance of our investments in the late-phase relevant audit information and to establish Officer, the SET comprises nine EVPs portfolio, also ensuring well informed that the Companys auditors are aware of representing: IMED: MedImmune: GMD: and robust decision making.
North America: International: Europe: GPPS: accountabilities include: Compliance and Internal Audit Services Operations & Information Services: and approval of the criteria supporting IA Human Resources & Corporate Affairs.
Proof of Concept The role of the Global Compliance function The Company Secretary acts as secretary decision to invest in Phase III development is to manage and maintain the compliance to the SET.
based on agreement of commercial programme infrastructure and to help opportunity and our plans to develop embed a culture of ethics and integrity Early Stage Product Committees the medicine in the Group.
Global Compliance works ESPCs and Late Stage Product evaluation of the outcome of the closely with IA, with whom it provides Committee LSPC development programme and decision assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
The ESPCs and LSPC were established to proceed to regulatory filing During 2014, the Global Compliance in 2013, replacing previous governance decision to invest in life-cycle function will continue to focus on ensuring committees including the Portfolio management activities for the latethe delivery of an aligned approach to Investment Board.
phase assets compliance that addresses key risk areas Early Stage Product Committees decision to invest in late-phase business across the business.
Further information The ESPCs are senior-level, cross-functional development opportunities.
can be found in the Risk section from governance bodies with accountability for page 199. oversight of our early stage small molecule Disclosure Committee and biologics portfolio to Proof of Concept Our disclosure policy provides a framework Global Compliance provides direct stage.
The EVPs of our two biotech units, for the handling and disclosure of inside assurance to the Audit Committee on IMED and MedImmune, chair our ESPCs.
information and other information of interest matters concerning compliance issues, The ESPCs seek to deliver a flow of to shareholders and the investment including the results of monitoring products to GMD for Phase III development community.
It also defines the role of the conducted by Global Compliance and through to launch.
The ESPCs also seek Disclosure Committee.
The members of an analysis of compliance breaches.
to maximise the value of our internal and the Disclosure Committee in 2013 were: Complementing this, IA carries out a range external R&D investments through robust, the CFO, who chaired the Disclosure of audits that include compliance-related transparent and well-informed decisionCommittee: the EVP, GMD who is also audits and reviews of the assurance making that drives business performance the Companys Chief Medical Officer : activities of other Group assurance and accountability.
the General Counsel: the Vice-President, functions.
The results from these activities Global Communications: the Vice-President, are reported to the Audit Committee.
Specifically, the ESPCs have responsibility Investor Relations: and the Vice-President, for the following: IA is an independent appraisal function that Group Financial Planning and Reporting.
derives its authority from the Board through approving early-stage investment The Deputy Company Secretary acted the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to decisions as secretary to the Disclosure Committee.
provide reasonable and objective assurance prioritising the R&D portfolio The Disclosure Committee meets regularly to the Directors regarding the adequacy and licensing activity for products in Phase I to assist and inform the decisions of the effectiveness of the Groups governance, and earlier CEO concerning inside information and risk management, and internal control delivering internal and external its disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews our processes in relation to the Groups defined opportunities disclosure controls and procedures and goals and objectives.
its own operation as part of work carried out to enable management and the Board to assure themselves that appropriate 94 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information IA seeks to discharge the responsibilities The Code includes information on how Branches and countries in which the set down in its charter by reviewing: to report possible violations, including Group conducts business through the AZethics telephone lines and In accordance with the Companies Act the processes for ensuring that key www.
Anyone who raises 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary business risks are effectively managed a possible breach in good faith is fully companies that have representative or the financial and operational controls that supported by management.
We take scientific branches offices outside the UK: help to ensure the Groups assets are all alleged compliance breaches and properly safeguarded from losses, AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria concerns extremely seriously and including fraud scientific office, Angola, Azerbaijan, investigate them and report the outcome the controls that help to ensure the Belarus, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, of such investigations to the Audit reliability and integrity of management Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, Ghana scientific Committee, as appropriate.
information systems office, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Macedonia, the processes for ensuring compliance In 2013, 149 reports of alleged compliance Nigeria, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia with policies and procedures, external breaches or other ethical concerns were scientific office, Serbia and Montenegro, legislation and regulation.
made via telephone, the AZethics website, Slovenia, Syria and Ukraine.
or the Global Compliance email or postal AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, In addition to fulfilling its primary remit of addresses described in the Code.
In 2012, Slovakia and the United Arab Emirates.
assurance to the Audit Committee, IA the number of reports through equivalent AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: may also evaluate specific operations channels was 194.
This decrease is in Vietnam.
at the request of the Audit Committee the context of a significant increase in or management, as appropriate.
Distributions to shareholders management and self-reporting of dividends for 2013 Code of Conduct compliance incidents, which can be seen Details of our distribution policy are set out Our Code of Conduct the Code, as an indication that employees are more in the Financial Review on page 82 and which is available on our website, comfortable in raising their concerns with Notes 20 and 21 to the Financial Statements www.
com, applies worldwide line managers, local HR, Legal or on page 165. to all full-time and part-time Directors, Compliance, as recommended in the Code officers, employees and temporary staff, and reinforced in the 2013 Code training.
The Companys dividends for 2013 of in all companies within our Group.
A Group $2.80 176.0 pence, SEK 18.33 per Our Global Policies supplement the Code.
Finance Code of Conduct complements Ordinary Share amount to, in aggregate, They provide clear and comprehensive the Code.
It applies to the CEO, the CFO, a total dividend payment to shareholders guidance in key ethical, compliance and the Groups principal accounting officers of $3,461 million.
Two of our employee corporate responsibility risk areas.
including key Finance staff in major share trusts, AstraZeneca Share Trust overseas subsidiaries and all Finance Other matters Limited and AstraZeneca Quest Limited, function employees.
This reinforces the Corporate governance statement under waived their right to a dividend on the importance of the integrity of the Groups the UK Disclosure and Transparency Ordinary Shares that they hold and instead Financial Statements, the reliability of the Rules DTR received a nominal dividend.
accounting records on which they are The disclosures that fulfil the requirements A shareholders resolution was passed at based and the robustness of the relevant of a corporate governance statement under the 2013 AGM authorising the Company controls and processes.
the DTR can be found in this section and in to purchase its own shares.
The Company other parts of this Annual Report as listed The Code is at the core of our compliance did not repurchase any of its own shares below, each of which is incorporated into programme.
It has been translated into over in 2013. this section by reference: 40 languages and employees have access Going concern accounting basis to an electronic copy.
It provides clear significant holders of the Companys Information on the business environment direction as to how our commitment to shares in which AstraZeneca operates, including honesty and integrity is to be realised in Articles the factors underpinning the industrys consistent actions across all areas of the amendments to the Articles.
future growth prospects, is included in the business.
Compliance with the Code is Further information on the above can be Strategic Report.
Details of the product mandatory and every employee receives found in the Shareholder Information section portfolio of the Group are contained in both training on it.
Every employee is required to from page 225 and the Corporate the Strategic Report in the Therapy Area comply with local laws and regulations, as Information section from page 230. Review from page 48 and the Directors well as applicable national and international Report.
Information on patent expiry dates Subsidiaries and principal activities codes.
We always seek to operate at the for key marketed products is included in the The Company is the holding company highest of these various standards.
The Patent expiries section from page 198.
Our for a group of subsidiaries whose principal Code is reviewed periodically and updated approach to product development and our activities are described in this Annual to take account of changing legal and development pipeline are also covered in Report.
Principal subsidiaries and their regulatory obligations.
detail with additional information by Therapy locations are given in the Principal Area in the Strategic Report.
Subsidiaries section in the Financial Statements on page 186.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 95 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report The financial position of the Group, its Changes in share capital Corporate political contributions in the cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Changes in the Companys Ordinary US are permitted in defined circumstances facilities are described in the Financial Share capital during 2013, including details under the First Amendment of the US Review from page 74.
In addition, Note 23 of the allotment of new shares under Constitution and are subject to both federal to the Financial Statements from page 169 the Companys share plans, are given in and state laws and regulations.
In 2013, includes the Groups objectives, policies Note 20 to the Financial Statements from the Groups US legal entities made and processes for managing its capital, page 165. contributions amounting in aggregate to its financial risk management objectives, $1,147,950 2012: $1,759,450 to national Directors shareholdings details of its financial instruments and political organisations, state-level political The Articles require each Director to be hedging activities and its exposures to party committees and to campaign the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further committees of various state candidates.
in the Company with an aggregate nominal details of the Groups cash balances and No corporate donations were made at the value of $125 which currently represents borrowings are included in Notes 13 and 14 federal level and all contributions were made at least 500 shares because each Ordinary to the Financial Statements from pages 155 only where allowed by US federal and state Share has a nominal value of $0.25.
We publicly disclose details of our Such holding must be obtained within corporate US political contributions, which The Group has considerable financial two months of the date of the Directors can be found at www.
At 31 December 2013, all of responsibility transparency.
The annual 2013, the Group had $10.4 billion in financial the Directors complied with this requirement corporate contributions budget is reviewed resources cash balances of $9.2 billion and full details of each Directors interests and approved by the Deputy General and undrawn committed bank facilities of in shares of the Company are set out in the Counsel, North America, the US Vice- $3.0 billion, which are available until April Directors interests in shares section from President, Corporate Affairs and the 2017, with only $1.8 billion of debt due within page 110.
Information about the President of our US business to ensure one year.
The Groups revenues are largely shareholding expectations of the robust governance and oversight.
US derived from sales of products that are Remuneration Committee in respect of citizens or individuals holding valid green covered by patents which provide a Executive Directors and SET members and cards exercised decision making over relatively high level of resilience and the Board in respect of Non-Executive the contributions and the funds were not predictability to cash inflows, although Directors is also set out in the Directors provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal our revenue is expected to continue to interests in shares section from page 110. entity.
Such contributions do not constitute be significantly impacted by the expiry of Political donations political donations or political expenditure for patents over the medium term.
In addition, Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 recent government price interventions in made any EU political donations or incurred and were made without any involvement response to budgetary constraints are any EU political expenditure in 2013 and of persons or entities outside the US.
expected to continue to adversely affect they do not intend to do so in the future in revenues in many of our mature markets.
Significant agreements respect of which shareholder authority is However, we anticipate new revenue There are no significant agreements to required, or for which disclosure in this streams from both recently launched which the Company is a party that take Annual Report is required, under the medicines and products in development, effect, alter or terminate on a change of Companies Act 2006.
However, to enable and the Group has a wide diversity of control of the Company following a takeover the Company and its subsidiaries to customers and suppliers across different bid.
There are no persons with whom we continue to support interest groups or geographic areas.
Consequently, the have contractual or other arrangements, lobbying organisations concerned with Directors believe that, overall, the Group who are deemed by the Directors to be the review of government policy or law is well placed to manage its business risks essential to our business.
reform without inadvertently breaching successfully despite the current uncertain the Companies Act 2006, which defines Use of financial instruments economic outlook.
political donations and other political The Notes to the Financial Statements, After making enquiries, the Directors have expenditure in broad terms, a resolution including Note 23 from page 169, include a reasonable expectation that the Company will be put to shareholders at the 2014 further information on our use of financial and the Group have adequate resources AGM, similar to that passed at the 2013 instruments.
to continue in operational existence for AGM, to authorise the Company and its Annual General Meeting the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they subsidiaries to: The Companys AGM will be held on continue to adopt the going concern basis make donations to political parties or 24 April 2014.
The meeting place will be in preparing the Annual Report and independent election candidates in London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent Financial Statements.
make donations to political organisations to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares other than political parties and, where requested, to the beneficial incur political expenditure, up to an holders of shares.
96 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information External auditor A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 24 April 2014 for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company, following a decision to wind down the Companys current external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, as part of a KPMG Group internal reorganisation.
The external auditor has undertaken various non-audit work for us during 2013.
More information about this work and the audit and non-audit fees that we have paid are set out in Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 184.
The external auditor is not engaged by us to carry out any non-audit work in respect of which it might, in the future, be required to express an audit opinion.
As explained more fully in the Audit Committee section from page 98, the Audit Committee has established pre-approval policies and procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be carried out by the external auditor and has carefully monitored the objectivity and independence of the external auditor throughout 2013.
Directors Report The Directors Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, comprises the following sections: Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Report Development Pipeline Responsible Business Shareholder Information Corporate Information and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
The Board considers this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess AstraZenecas performance, business model and strategy.
A C N Kemp Company Secretary 6 February 2014 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 97
