Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit Committee Financial reporting Compliance with the Code of Conduct Dear shareholder Robust financial reporting is underpinned by The Audit Committee has oversight of The principal duties of the Audit well designed internal controls, appropriate the Companys responsibilities under Committee are to provide accounting practices and policies, and a Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA assurance to the Board on: good judgement.
The Audit Committee which is now in its fourth year.
In addition reviews, at least quarterly, the Companys to receiving quarterly updates from the the integrity of our financial significant accounting matters and, where US Compliance Officer on our compliance appropriate, challenges managements with the CIA, in 2013, members of the reporting and internal controls decisions.
In 2013, against a backdrop of Audit Committee visited our US business.
over financial matters revenue decline, one of the significant issues We met senior managers in sales and our internal controls over at the forefront of the Audit Committees marketing, compliance and internal audit to non-financial matters, deliberations was revenue recognition.
satisfy ourselves that a compliance culture In addition, the annual impairment review has become embedded in our business.
compliance with laws and of intangible assets was another significant Compliance with our Code of Conduct in our Code of Conduct matter which came before the Audit our Emerging Markets, particularly in Russia the Companys relationship Committee.
Considering the quantum and and China has also been a focus for the appropriateness of the partial impairment with its external auditor Audit Committee in 2013.
During the course of our diabetes asset, Bydureon, rights to the role, resources and of the year, the Audit Committee received which we acquired when we extended our a report from the EVP of our International effectiveness of the Companys diabetes collaboration with BMS in 2012, region, on the steps we are taking in those internal audit function was a key aspect of our review.
The Audit markets to ensure that we operate ethically Committee also requested and received the effectiveness of the and within the law.
This update was information about the then current business Companys risk management in addition to reports from the Chief case associated with the extended BMS Compliance Officer on compliance in all framework collaboration in order to understand, more areas of our business which we received fully, the initial acquisition business case and and discussed with her each quarter.
in each case with the ultimate to test the robustness of the Companys aim of protecting our In December 2013, I joined our Chairman processes in respect of investment and the Chairman of the Remuneration decisions.
This review by the Audit Committee shareholders interests.
Committee at a meeting with some of informed the Boards decision to support In this Audit Committee Report, we describe our major investors to hear their views the acquisition of BMSs 50% share of the work of the Audit Committee during the on our remuneration policy and corporate the joint diabetes business, which was year and highlight the significant issues it governance generally.
We value dialogue announced at the end of the year and considered.
In 2013, our focus was on with our shareholders and welcome your which was completed on 1 February 2014. sound financial reporting and compliance feedback on this Audit Committee Report.
In addition to IP litigation, which is a with our Code of Conduct, which are Yours sincerely feature of the pharmaceutical industry, considered below.
the Group is involved in a number of government investigations and is a defendant in certain product liability actions.
The Audit Committee receives a regular Rudy Markham update from the General Counsel on the Chairman of the Audit Committee status of those litigation matters which might result in fines or damages awards against the Group, in order to assess whether provisions should be taken and if so, when and in what amounts.
98 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In 2013, our focus was on sound financial reporting and compliance with our Code of Conduct.
The Audit Committee is responsible for Audit Committee membership Number of meetings and attendance notifying the Board of any significant and attendance The Audit Committee held five scheduled concerns of the external auditor or the The members of the Audit Committee are meetings in 2013.
The individual attendance Vice-President, IA arising from their audit Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit record of members of the Audit Committee work: any matters that may materially Committee, Bruce Burlington, Graham is set out in the Board and Board affect or impair the independence of the Chipchase, Jean-Philippe Courtois and Committee meeting attendance in 2013 external auditor: any significant deficiencies Shriti Vadera.
They are all Non-Executive table on page 91.
Following each Audit or material weaknesses in the design Directors.
The Board considers each Committee meeting, the Chairman of or operation of our internal control over member to be independent under the UK the Audit Committee reported to the Board financial reporting or other internal controls: Corporate Governance Code and under on the principal matters covered at the and any serious issues of non-compliance the general guidance and specific criteria meeting and minutes of the meetings and how the Audit Committee has of the Listing Standards concerning the were circulated to all Board members.
It oversees composition of audit committees applicable In addition, the Chairman of the Audit the establishment, implementation and to non-US companies listed on the NYSE.
Committee held regular scheduled calls maintenance of our Code of Conduct In April 2013, we submitted the required between Audit Committee meetings with and other related policies.
It monitors the annual written affirmation to the NYSE each of the CFO: the Chief Compliance Companys response to letters requesting confirming our full compliance with those Officer: the Vice-President, IA: and the information and investigations initiated by standards.
For the purposes of the UK lead partner of the external auditor.
regulatory and governmental authorities Corporate Governance Code, the Board The Audit Committee is currently scheduled such as the SEC, the DOJ and the UK remains satisfied that at least one member to meet five times in 2014 and will meet at Financial Reporting Council pertaining of the Audit Committee has recent and such other times as may be required.
to matters within the remit of the Audit relevant financial experience.
At its meeting Terms of reference Committees work.
It has established in December 2013, the Board determined The core terms of reference of the Audit procedures for the receipt and handling that Rudy Markham and Graham Chipchase Committee, which are available on our of complaints concerning accounting or are audit committee financial experts for the website, www.
It recommends to the Board purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
For reviewing and reporting to the Board on: the appointment of the external auditor, further information regarding the experience subject to the approval of the Companys of the Audit Committee members, see the matters relating to the audit plans of the shareholders at a general meeting.
Board of Directors section from page 28. external auditor and IA as well as Shareholders authorise the Directors to fix The Deputy Company Secretary acts as oversight of the work of the Global the remuneration of the external auditor secretary to the Audit Committee.
Compliance function at a general meeting.
The Audit Committee our overall framework for internal control Meetings of the Audit Committee are reviews and approves the appointment and over financial reporting and for other routinely attended by the CFO: the General dismissal of the Vice-President, IA.
internal controls and processes Counsel: the Chief Compliance Officer: our overall framework for risk the Vice-President, IA: the Vice-President, Activities of the Audit Committee management, particularly financial risks Group Financial Planning and Reporting: in 2013 our accounting policies and practices and our external auditor.
The CEO attends The Audit Committee has an annual our annual and quarterly financial on an agenda-driven basis.
In line with its calendar of topics, developed from its reporting, including the critical estimates normal practice, the Audit Committee also terms of reference, with standing items and judgements contained in our held a number of private meetings, without which it considers in accordance with its reporting management present, with the Chief schedule at each quarterly meeting or in our internal control over financial reporting Compliance Officer: the General Counsel: some cases, annually.
our Code of Conduct and whistleblower the Vice-President, IA: and the Companys procedures external auditor.
These meetings were held compliance with our obligations under between Audit Committee members and the CIA.
those individuals, separately from the main sessions of the Audit Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 99 Corporate Governance | Audit Committee Report During 2013 and in February 2014, the Audit management policies in the context of In addition to the quarterly reporting Committee considered and discussed the the current economic situation.
stipulated by the CIA as described above, following standing items: Going concern assessment and adoption a number of other obligations required by of the going concern basis in preparing the CIA were discharged by members of The key elements of the Financial this Annual Report and the Financial the Board and the Audit Committee during Statements, and the estimates and Statements.
For example, all members of the judgements contained in our financial Other reports, on a quarterly basis, Board completed the annual CIA-required disclosures.
Various accounting matters concerning IA, Global Compliance and training, addressing the Code of Conduct were considered.
These included the Finance, including the internal audit plan and the elements of the CIA and the US areas described in the Financial Review and progress and plans of Global compliance programme.
Furthermore, the under the heading Critical accounting Compliance.
Board adopted a resolution signed by each policies and estimates with a focus on Quarterly reports from the General Board member in respect of the third accounting issues relevant to litigation Counsel on the status of certain litigation 12 month reporting period under the CIA.
and taxation matters and goodwill matters and governmental investigations.
The resolution summarised the Boards impairment from page 83 and discussion The amount of audit and non-audit fees of oversight of the US compliance programme was supported by papers prepared by the external auditor throughout 2013.
The and stated that, to the best of the Boards management and the external auditor.
Audit Committee was satisfied throughout knowledge, AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals The reports received from the external the year that the objectivity and LP and AstraZeneca LP AstraZenecas auditor concerning their audit of the independence of the external auditor principal US trading entities have Financial Statements of the Group and were not in any way impaired by the implemented an effective US compliance from management, IA, Global nature of the non-audit work undertaken programme to meet US federal healthcare Compliance and the external auditor on by the external auditor during the year, the programme, FDA and CIA requirements.
the effectiveness of our system of internal level of non-audit fees charged for such controls and, in particular, our internal Significant issues considered by the work or any other facts or circumstances.
This Audit Committee in 2013 Further information about the audit and included review and discussion of the The Audit Committee determined that the non-audit fees for 2013 is disclosed in results of the Groups continuous significant issues considered during the Note 27 to the Financial Statements on assurance and annual letter of year were: page 184. assurance processes.
The Audit revenue recognition A review and assessment of the Audit Committee also reviewed quarterly impairment of intangible assets Committees performance.
activity reports of audit work carried out litigation and contingent liabilities by IA and the status of follow-up actions In addition to its usual business as pension accounting with management, as well as reports from described above, during 2013, members tax accounting.
of the Audit Committee met individual The systems and processes that managers or groups of managers on a Revenue recognition management has developed for risk number of occasions in order to gain a The US is our largest single market and identification, classification and mitigation.
deeper insight into areas relevant to the sales accounted for 37.7% of our revenue Compliance with the applicable provisions Audit Committees work and to provide in 2013.
Revenue recognition, particularly of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, an opportunity to discuss specific areas in the US, is impacted by rebates, the status of compliance with the of interest.
These included: chargebacks, cash discounts and returns programme of internal controls over for more information see the Financial Receiving regular updates from financial reporting implemented pursuant Review from page 83.
The Audit Committee the IT team in connection with the to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley pays particular attention to managements transition from AstraZenecas previous Act.
The Audit Committee remained estimates of these items, their analysis IT infrastructure outsourcing provider focused on IT controls in the context of any unusual movements and their to its new providers.
of the changes to the Groups IT impact on revenue recognition informed Considering a presentation on risk environment, described below.
Further by commentary from the external auditor.
management in our supply chain, information about this is set out in particularly in Emerging Markets.
Impairment of intangible assets the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 Receiving a report and presentation on The Group has significant intangible assets section on page 87. sales and marketing compliance-related arising from the acquisition of businesses Data about reports made by employees activities in China and Russia.
and IP rights to medicines which are both via the AZethics helpline, online facilities Considering and debating a risk in development and on the market.
In his and other routes regarding potential management update and an audit quarterly report to the Audit Committee, breaches of the Code of Conduct, simplification initiative proposed by the CFO outlines the carrying value of the together with the results of inquiries management.
Groups intangible assets and, in respect of into those matters.
Understanding the nature of the cyber those intangible assets which are identified Quarterly reports received from the US security threat to AstraZeneca and our as at risk of impairment, the difference Compliance Officer responsible for approach to mitigating that risk.
between the carrying value and monitoring the US business compliance Considering post-investment reviews managements current estimate of with the CIA for more information about of a recent major business development discounted future cash flows for at risk the obligations imposed on the Board by transaction, a capital expenditure project products the headroom.
Products will the CIA, see below.
and a Phase III investment decision.
be identified as at risk either because Reports from the Group Treasury function the headroom is limited or because, for and, in particular, reports concerning the example, in the case of a medicine in Groups liquidity and cash position and the appropriateness of its cash 100 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information development, a significant development There was no change in our internal control In 2013, non-audit services provided milestone such as the publication of over financial reporting that occurred during to the Company by KPMG included tax clinical trial results could significantly alter the period covered by this Annual Report compliance services and audit services in managements forecasts for the product.
that has materially affected, or is reasonably relation to employee benefit funds, in each likely to materially affect, our internal control case within the scope of the pre-approved The Audit Committee questioned over financial reporting.
services set out in the Non-Audit Services management on the robustness of the Policy.
The Audit Committee supports processes underpinning the cash flow Appointing the auditor and safeguards managements decision to enter into an projections and the timing of the on non-audit services outsourcing arrangement for all tax and impairment reviews.
We noted in our 2012 Annual Report that, statutory accounts preparation work which, having reviewed the changes to the UK In December 2013, as part of the annual once implemented during 2013 2014, Corporate Governance Code with regard impairment review, the Audit Committee will result in such work currently undertaken to putting the external audit contract out reviewed the management processes by KPMG transitioning to another firm.
to tender at least every 10 years, and for estimating future cash flows, which In addition, for other non-audit services, cognisant of the fact that the lead audit resulted in the impairment of our diabetes management has determined that the partner at KPMG rotated in 2013, the Audit product, Bydureon.
The Audit Committee Companys auditors should only be Committee determined that the audit would was satisfied that those processes were engaged where they are the only credible be put out to tender by 2018, in accordance sufficiently robust.
choice of service provider for a particular with the transitional guidance issued by the piece of work.
Litigation and contingent liabilities FRC.
KPMG was first appointed as sole Litigation, particularly that relating to the external auditor to AstraZeneca in 2001 Fees paid to the auditor for audit, enforcement and defence of IP rights following a competitive tender.
The new EU audit-related and other services are protecting medicines, is a significant audit reform framework, if approved, would analysed in Note 27 to the Financial feature of the pharmaceutical industry.
not impact upon the Audit Committees Statements on page 184.
Fees for In addition to IP litigation, the Group is decision to put the audit out to tender non-audit services amounted to 39% involved in a number of government by 2018. of the fees paid to KPMG for audit, investigations and is a defendant in audit-related and other services in 2013.
Non-audit services certain product liability actions.
The Audit The Audit Committee maintains a policy Assessing external audit effectiveness Committee receives regular updates from the Non-Audit Services Policy and In accordance with its normal practice, the General Counsel, and is informed by procedures for the pre-approval of all audit the Audit Committee considered the commentary from the external auditor, services and permitted non-audit services performance of KPMG.
It also considered on the status of those litigation matters undertaken by the external auditor, the KPMGs compliance with the independence which might result in fines or damages principal purpose of which is to ensure that criteria under the relevant statutory, awards against the Company in order the independence of the external auditor is regulatory and ethical standards applicable to assess whether provisions should be not impaired.
The policies and procedures to auditors and assessed its objectivity, taken and if so, when and in what amounts.
cover three categories of work: audit taking into account the level of challenge Pension accounting services: audit-related services: and tax provided around the critical estimates Pension accounting continues to be services.
The policies define the type of and judgements involved in our financial a significant area of focus.
In 2013, the work that falls within each of these reporting and the quality of our internal Audit Committee considered the adjustments categories and the non-audit services that control over financial reporting.
Having associated with the application of the external auditor is prohibited from considered all these factors, the Audit IAS 19 2011. performing under the rules of the SEC and Committee unanimously recommended other relevant UK and US professional and to the Board that a resolution for the Tax accounting regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval re-appointment of KPMG as the Companys Although the Audit Committee recognised procedures permit certain audit, auditexternal auditor for the year ending that there continues to be significant related and tax services to be performed 31 December 2014 be proposed to exposure associated with specific tax by the external auditor during the year, shareholders at the AGM in April 2014. contingencies, it noted that there were no subject to fee limits agreed with the Audit significant developments in this exposure Consistent with current market practice, Committee in advance.
The CFO supported during the year.
KPMGs services to the Company are by the Vice-President, Financial Planning provided pursuant to terms of engagement Internal controls and Reporting monitors the status of all which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
At the February 2014 meeting, the CFO services being provided by the external Neither these terms of engagement nor any presented to the Audit Committee the auditor.
The procedures also deal with other agreement include any contractual conclusions of the CEO and the CFO placing non-audit work out for tender, where obligations under which the Board would following the evaluation of the effectiveness appropriate.
Authority to approve work be prevented from appointing a different of our disclosure controls and procedures in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is audit firm were they to consider this to be required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F at 31 delegated to the Chairman of the Audit in the best interests of the Group.
Based on their evaluation, Committee together with one other Audit Committee, through management, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as Audit Committee member in the first continues to maintain contact and dialogue at that date, we maintain an effective system instance.
A standing agenda item at with other major audit firms who are familiar of disclosure controls and procedures.
Audit Committee meetings covers the with the Groups business for succession operation of the pre-approval procedures purposes as required.
and regular reports are provided to the full Audit Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 101
