44 Nomination Committee Report Letter from John Hughes, Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Dear Shareholder, John Hughes Chairman of the I am pleased to present to you on behalf of the Nomination Nomination Committee Committee our report which summarises our work during the year, as well as setting out our membership and responsibilities.
The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to assist it with the review of the Companys leadership needs to ensure its continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The main focus of our work in 2013 was assisting the Board with the recruitment of three Executive Committee members.
Eoghan OLionaird was appointed Business Group Director in February 2014 ahead of Jim Websters retirement at the end of June 2014 and Jo Hallas, who will have responsibility for our In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls segments, replacing Steve Blair, joins us during the second quarter of this year.
Robin Stopford joined the Executive team as Head of Corporate Development in November last year.
In making these appointments to the Board and the Executive team, we considered carefully a range of candidates to ensure that the Groups leadership has the appropriate representation of skills, experience and perspectives to serve our current and future strategicaspirations.
At our meeting in January this year, we considered the effectiveness and contribution of individual Directors during the past year and recommended to the Board that each be put forward for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, save for Steve Blair who stepped down from the Board on 25 February 2014.
I hope you will join me in supporting the re-election of the Directors at the Annual General Meeting, where I will be happy to answer any questions you may have on the work of the Committee.
Yours faithfully, John Hughes Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 February 2014 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Membership and responsibilities Steve Blair joined the Company in May 2011 and after two successful The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board.
Its members years as Business Group Director, he left the Board on 25 February are the Chairman, the Chief Executive and all of the Non-executive 2014 to take up the position of chief executive of e2v technologies Directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, save in the plc.
Following his resignation, the Committee commenced the search event of discussions relating to his succession, when the Senior for a replacement with the requisite skills and experience required to Independent Director would take the chair.
assume responsibility for the In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls segments.
Following a detailed search process, Jo Hallas will The Committees primary responsibilities are to: be joining as Business Group Director later this year.
regularly review the size, structure and composition including the On 3 February 2014, Eoghan OLionaird joined the Company as skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and make Business Group Director to take charge of the Materials Analysis and recommendations to the Board for any changes: Test and Measurement segments ahead of Jim Websters retirement consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and at the end of June.
senior Executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise Following the resignation of the previous incumbent, the Board needed on the Board in the near future: decided that the appointment of a new Head of Corporate be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates Development was necessary and a search for suitably qualified to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to make candidates with industrial corporate and strategic development recommendations to the Board for the appointment, experience was instigated.
On 5 November 2013 Robin Stopford re-appointment or replacement of Directors: joined the Executive Committee as Head of Corporate Development.
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare In addition to identifying candidates to fill these vacancies, the a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Committee also reviewed succession management plans at Director appointment: and level more generally.
review the results of the Board performance evaluation process insofar as these relate to the composition of the Board and the The Boards debate on diversity is drawn broadly around both Committees effectiveness.
experience of the end-user markets and regional cultures served by the Company, and breadth of perspectives more generally.
Full terms of reference are available to view on the Companys We recognise that diversity of representation at Board level and website.
throughout our business is crucial for sustainable growth, particularly as we expand our presence in industrialising economies and across a Activities during the year broad base of end-user markets.
The Committee met three times during the year and meetings were attended by all eligible members.
Further details are set out on All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first page43.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors A significant proportion of our work this year focused on assisting are then subject to annual re-election.
Each Director retires at the the Board with the search and selection of a number of key Annual General Meeting and, if considered appropriate by the Board, senior appointments.
Following the Boards decision that a new is proposed for re-election.
In determining whether a Director should appointment is appropriate, we work with external search firms be proposed for re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, to present for Board consideration suitably qualified candidates.
the Board took into account the Committees advice based on the In doing so, we evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and results of a peer group review of each Directors contribution to the experience on the Board and the Executive team and develop a Boards effectiveness, which formed part of the  description of the role and required capabilities.
This process was Board evaluation.
This review confirmed that all Directors continue followed for the appointments of Robin Stopford, Eoghan OLionaird to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles and the and Jo Hallas, with external search firm Egon Zehnder providing Committee has accordingly recommended their re-election.
Egon Zehnder adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and provided The Committee also reviewed the results of the Board evaluation as it no other services to the Company during the year.
related to its own effectiveness.
In order to improve the Committees effectiveness, it was agreed that the Committee should have at least Following consideration of the composition of the Board and three regular meetings scheduled in the annual Board calendar.
the range of industry experiences represented, the Committee recommended to the Board that the recruitment of an additional Non-executive Director would be beneficial.
A search process has been initiated.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
