Governance 40 Corporate Governance Report At Spectris, we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, both at Board level and throughout the Group.
This Corporate Governance Report and the Nomination and are set out in our Code of Business Ethics, which is communicated to Audit and Risk Committee Reports on pages 44 to 51 form the all our employees and business partners.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report Spectris plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the and Accounts are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken Code, as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
together, they fulfil the combined requirements of company law, The Code sets out principles and provisions relating to the good the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules.
The edition of the Code published in UK Corporate Governance Code statement of compliance September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ending At Spectris we are committed to maintaining high standards of 31 December 2013, but the Financial Conduct Authority has yet corporate governance, both at Board level and throughout the to change the Listing Rules and therefore requires that certain Group.
We see this as fundamental to the effective and responsible compliance statements are made in relation to the predecessor management of the business and for the delivery of shareholder edition of the Code, issued in June 2010.
This report describes how value over the long term.
Time is allocated at Board and Committee the Company applied the principles and complied with the provisions meetings to considering governance issues.
of both editions of the Code during 2013.
We particularly emphasise the strong relationship that exists The Board considers that it was throughout the year and continues between ethics and governance and the role of the Board in to be in full compliance with the provisions set out in both editions of demonstrating ethical leadership.
The ethical standards we require the Code.
John Warren Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40 Board of Directors Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 41 John Hughes cbe John OHiggins Clive Watson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed Appointed Appointed June 2007.
Appointed Chairman in May 2008 January 2006 October 2006 Committees Committees Relevant experience Nomination chairman Nomination Clive Watson was previously chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support at Relevant experience Relevant experience Borealis.
Prior to this, he was group finance director John Hughes was formerly executive vice-president Before joining Spectris, John OHiggins worked at Thorn Lighting Group and before that group and chief operating officer of defence, aerospace for Honeywell in a number of management roles, finance director Europe with Black & Decker.
Clive is and electronic systems company Thales Group SA.
most recently as president of automation and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants control solutions, Asia Pacific.
John began his career in England and Wales and the Chartered Institute External appointments at Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
Non-executive chairman of Sepura plc and degrees from University College Dublin and Purdue Telecity Group plc.
Non-executive director of CSG University and an MBA from INSEAD.
External appointments International, Inc. a NASDAQ-listed company.
Non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Chairman of privately-held business Just Eat.
External appointments Specialadviser for Oakley Capital.
Ambassador Non-executive director of Exide Technologies, for the Alzheimers Society.
Peter Chambr Non-executive Director Jim Webster Martha Wyrsch Appointed Business Group Director Non-executive Director August 2006 Appointed Appointed Committees October 1993 June 2012 Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Risk Relevant experience Committees Relevant experience Before joining Spectris, Jim Webster worked for Nomination, Remuneration, Raychem Corporation in a number of management Audit and Risk Peter Chambr was formerly chief executive officer roles, most recently as general manager of the of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and Relevant experience European Wire and Cable Division.
Jim began prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Martha Wyrsch is executive vice president and his career as a financial analyst in the automotive Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
general counsel of Sempra Energy, a company industry.
He has a metallurgy degree from Leeds External appointments quoted on the New York Stock Exchange.
Martha University and has attended the Advanced was formerly president of Vestas Americas, a Chairman of immatics biotechnologies GmbH, Management Programme at INSEAD.
subsidiary of Vestas Wind Systems A S and prior to 7TM Holdings ApS and 7TM Pharma AS, as well as that she was president and CEO of Spectra Energy director of OneMed Sverige AB, OneMed Holding Transmission.
AB and Cancer Research Technology Limited.
Russell King External appointments Non-executive Director Non-executive director of SPX Corporation, a Roger Stephens Appointed company quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, Head of Commercial and October 2010 and a director of Cristo Rey Network, an educational foundation in the USA.
Shealso serves on the board Company Secretary Committees of the Southern California Gas Company, a US Nomination, Remuneration chairman, Appointed publicly-traded company.
Audit and Risk January 1997 Relevant experience Relevant experience John Warren Russell King was previously chief strategy officer Roger Stephens is responsible for legal and of Anglo American PLC and a non-executive Non-executive Director governance matters and commercial projects director of Anglo Platinum Limited.
Prior to that, across the Group.
Prior to joining Spectris, Roger he spent over 20 years in senior roles at ICI, gaining Appointed held commercial roles in the power and construction worldwide experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical March 2006 sectors, specialising in contract negotiation, and paint businesses.
litigation and claims resolution, IPexploitation Committees and property development.
External appointments Nomination, Remuneration, Chairman of GeoProMining Investment, a director Audit and Risk chairman of Sorrett Advisors Limited and a non-executive Senior Independent Director director and chairman of the remuneration Relevant experience committee of Aggreko plc.
John Warren was previously group finance director of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc, Uniq plc, Rank Group plc and Rexam plc.
External appointments Non-executive director of Bovis Homes Group PLC, 4imprint Group plc, Greencore Group plc and Welsh Water, a privately-owned company.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Report continued Board composition and procedures chairman of privately-held business Just Eat.
The Board has formally The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the year reviewed the Chairmans other commitments and confirms that it to consider developments in relation to the Companys strategy and believes that the Chairmans obligations to the Company are properly long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational fulfilled notwithstanding these directorships.
In particular, it deals with those matters There are procedures for individual Board members to receive reserved to it for decision, including annual financial planning, the induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, professional advice at the Groups expense where specific the appointment and, where necessary, removal of Directors and expertise is required in the course of discharging their duties.
Board and senior management succession.
Additional meetings TheChairman reviews and agrees with each Director their training are convened as required to consider specific topics requiring and development needs annually.
All Directors have access to the immediate decision.
Two meetings were held during the year at Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with operating locations and encompassed a detailed review of the appropriate statutes and regulations.
In June, the Board visited Particle Measuring Systems in Boulder, Colorado, and also whilst there received a The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board Committees, presentation from the President of Microscan Systems.
In November, notably the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit and Risk the Board visited Red Lion Controls in York, Pennsylvania, and also Committees.
The terms of reference for these Committees are whilst there received a presentation from the President of Omega published on the Companys website and the following additional Engineering.
Through these meetings, the induction process on documents are available to shareholders on application to the appointment, and the access given to the Companys operations and Company Secretary: its staff, all Directors maintain their detailed knowledge of company operations, as required for them to discharge their duties.
Authority schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: for operational decisions is delegated by the Board to senior responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the management at trading company level, over which the Executive Non-executive Directors: Directors exercise supervision.
All Directors receive detailed progress relations with shareholders: reports one week prior to each Boardmeeting.
performance evaluation: and procedure for taking independent professional advice.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers its The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Non-executive Directors Peter Chambr, Russell King, John Warren Administrators Guidance Note of September 2009 on Board and Martha Wyrsch to be independent, in that none of them is, or Meeting Etiquette.
has ever been, the holder of an executive office with the Company.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent where he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest that Director are held by separate individuals and, in accordance with conflicts, or may conflict, with the Companys interests.
During the the Code, the Board has adopted written profiles for the first two of year, in accordance with the powers and duties of Directors laid down these.
The Non-executive Directors have all had senior experience in in the Companys Articles, Directors were asked to declare any such other organisations and bring expertise and independent judgement conflict or potential conflict of interest to the Board, and to request the on Board matters.
The Chairmans other significant listed company Boards authorisation of any matter which otherwise might have given interests are as non-executive chairman of Sepura plc and Telecity rise to a conflict of interest.
No such conflicts have been declared.
Group plc and non-executive director of CSG International, Inc. the latter company being quoted on NASDAQ.
Mr Hughes is also Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 43 The names of all Directors of the Company at any time during the Effectiveness year are shown below.
Operation of the Board and its evaluation Board and Committee meeting attendance 2013 The operation of the Board and its Committees is reviewed by the Board as a whole annually.
The Executive Directors and Company Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman Total meetings during year 8 6 3 3 and Non-executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Senior J L M Hughes Chairman 8 1 N A 3 Independent Director and the Chairman respectively, prior to their J A Warren Senior being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, the Independent Director 8 6 3 3 Chairman periodically holds meetings with the Non-executive P A Chambr 8 6 3 3 Directors and the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity R J King 8 6 3 3 to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present in a meeting led by the Senior Independent Director.
In considering the M B Wyrsch 8 6 3 3 Chairmans performance, his other public company interests were J E OHiggins Chief Executive 8 N A N A 3 specifically addressed and found to be of benefit to the Board, in that S Blair 8 N A N A N A he brings experiences and insights gained from these interests which C G Watson 8 N A N A N A assist the Board in its deliberations.
J C Webster 8 N A N A N A During the year the triennial  review of the Board Mr Hughes stepped down from the Remuneration Committee following its January and its Committees was undertaken by Armstrong Bonham Carter, meeting.
Armstrong Bonham Carter provides no other services to the Company.
This comprised a process of structured interviews with all Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group Deputy Secretary, the Head of Internal Audit, the external audit partner and the external remuneration consultant.
An overview was presented to both the Board and the Nomination Committee in January 2014, the overall conclusion being that the Board is performing efficiently, and that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company, to enable the Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Certain specific recommendations relating to the further development of Group strategy will be brought forward for discussion during 2014.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
