Audit and Risk Committee Report Letter from John Warren, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Dear Shareholder, John Warren Audit committees have long been charged with the critical role of Chairman of the Audit ensuring the integrity of Financial Statements and, where required, and Risk Committee testing the efficacy of internal control and risk management systems.
The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code serve to highlight this further, particularly the new duties to: review the annual report and accounts at the boards request, and advise whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy: ensure that the external audit is put out to tender at least once every ten years to enable the quality and effectiveness of the existing services to be assessed: and report formally to the board and shareholders on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
It is therefore an opportune time for me and my fellow Committee members to present to you our report explaining how we have fulfilled our duties.
The Committee has an annual work programme which supports key events in the Groups financial reporting cycle and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework, and our report highlights the key issues dealt with during the year.
We assess the Committees effectiveness as part of the normal annual Board evaluation.
This year, the review formed part of the  Board review process.
The review included discussions with Committee members, members of the Executive team, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Deputy Secretary and our external audit partner.
I am pleased to report that the Committee is considered to be operating effectively.
Looking forward, our key priorities for 2014 include scrutiny of the Groups cyber security defences and examination of the full range of third-party assurance activity across the Group in order to understand the impact on the Groups risk profile.
Yours faithfully, John Warren Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 27 February 2014 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Membership and responsibilities reinforcing the Committees responsibility to maintain dialogue The Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises John with the key individuals involved in the Companys governance Warren chairman, Peter Chambr, Russell King and Martha outside formal scheduled meetings: Wyrsch.
John Warren is a chartered accountant and has recent ensuring financial reports are fair, balanced and understandable: and and relevant financial experience, having been the former group putting the external auditing service contract out to tender at least finance director of both United Biscuits plc and WH Smith PLC and once every ten years.
currently chairs the audit committees of Bovis Homes Group PLC, Activities during the year Welsh Water, 4imprint Group plc and Greencore Group plc.
The The Committee met three times in 2013 to coincide with key dates Committee benefits greatly from MrWarrens skilled leadership and in the financial reporting cycle.
Committee members attendance the wide-ranging expertise of the other Committee members.
The Group Deputy Secretary and Group biographical details are on page 41.
The Group Deputy Secretary Finance Director worked with the Chairman to set each meetings acts as secretary to theCommittee.
Executives and other senior management were invited The Committee operates under terms of reference approved by to attend as appropriate to provide updates on operational and the Board which are available on the Companys website.
These strategic matters, participate in debate and answer questions posed were reviewed during the year and a number of changes approved by the Committee.
asfollows: Risk management and External auditor Accounting, technical and Internal audit assurance inc. ethics Financial reporting independence corporate governance updates Chief Executive Group Finance Director Business Group Directors Company Secretary Group Deputy Secretary Head of Internal Audit External Auditor Presented reports Participated in debate answered Committee questions Committee members also receive regular technical updates from KPMGs Audit Committee Institute.
The external auditors met with the Chairman of the Committee in advance of the February and July 2013 meetings and the February 2014 meeting, and had a private session with the Committee without management present.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 49 The following matters were considered by the Committee at their scheduled meetings: January 2013 February 2013 July 2013 2012 year-end issues including legal and The full-year Financial Statements The interim Financial Statements and divestment provisions and the going including the external auditors report.
issues raised by management and the concern statements.
Defined benefit plan valuations and external auditors.
The 2012 internal audit review and control measures.
The 2013 external audit strategy and 2013plan.
The external auditors objectivity and scope.
The Groups risk landscape including independence.
Update on the internal audit review material operating company risks.
The policy on the provision of non-audit and resourcing within the internal audit Whistleblowing reports and associated services by the external auditors.
Update on the business ethics Business continuity plans.
programme and review of whistleblowing reports.
Risk management review and significant legal issues.
January 2014 February 2014 2013 year-end issues including legal and divestment provisions, The full-year Financial Statements including the external Weighted Average Cost of Capital, impairment and the going auditorsreport.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment.
2013 internal audit review and 2014 plan.
External auditors objectivity, effectiveness and independence.
2013 draft Audit and Risk Committee report and draft external Defined benefit plan, valuations and control measures.
auditors Audit Opinion, both in new format.
Update on information security measures.
Business ethics programme areas of focus in 2014 and review of whistleblowing reports.
A number of these are discussed in further detail below.
Financial reporting Management assessed the carrying value of goodwill and other After discussion with both management and the external auditor, intangible assets including detailed calculations of value in use the Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement in the for those cash-generating units whose recoverable amount is not Groups Financial Statements for 2013 related to: provisions, given significantly greater than its carrying amount to ensure the carrying the judgemental nature of the assessment and estimation, together values are supported by forecast future discounted cash flows.
No with the assessment of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment.
impairment charges were required as a result of the impairment assessment.
These issues were discussed with management during the year and with the external auditor at the time the Committee reviewed and The external auditor explained the results of their own review of the agreed the external auditors Group audit plan, when the auditor estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements reviewed the half year interim Financial Statements in July 2013 and underlying cash flow projections as well as the updated long-term also at the conclusion of the 2013 audit of the Financial Statements.
growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, no impairments were identified.
Following discussion, the Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Committee were satisfied that the approach taken by management As more fully explained in Note 13 to the Financial Statements, was appropriate and that there was no requirement to record any the total carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible impairment in the accounts.
During the year, management reassessed the Weighted Average Cost of Capital Provisions WACC calculation and the long-term growth rates to be applied Working capital provisions in determining the discounted value of the projected cash flows of Provisions are made to write down slow-moving and obsolete the cash-generating units as more fully explained in Note 13 to the inventory items to net realisable value, based on an assessment Accounts.
This resulted in the nominal post-tax WACC rate for the of technological and market developments and on an analysis Group being reduced to 8.4% 2012: 9.4% and long-term growth of historic and projected usage with regard to quantities.
The rates being increased to 4% 2012: 2.5%.
The Committee reviewed assessment used to calculate the provisions needed requires the the calculations and were satisfied that the changes were warranted.
application of judgement by management.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 50 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued The Groups approach to trade receivables is for the initially recognised The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they fair value to be reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated had conducted during the year, which supported the carrying value irrecoverable amounts.
The application of this approach requires of the provisions.
Following discussion of the key assumptions and judgement by management in respect of amounts which are deemed judgements, the Committee concluded that the carrying values were irrecoverable.
Further information about our exposure to credit risk and reasonable in the circumstances.
the quality of our receivables is set out in Note 16.
Further information about the specific categories of provisions held by Management confirmed to the Committee that there have been no the Group is set out in Note 21 to the Financial Statements.
significant changes to the approach used to estimate working capital Misstatements provisions from the prior year.
Management confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they had any material or immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve conducted during the year.
On the basis of their audit work, the a particular presentation.
external auditor reported no material inconsistencies or misstatements.
The Committee confirms that as a result of the presentations made to Following discussion, the Committee were satisfied that the the Committee by the external auditors and the ensuing discussions judgements that had been exercised were appropriate and that and questioning of the external auditors by Committee members, it therefore the provisions were appropriately stated at the yearend.
is satisfied that the external auditors have fulfilled their responsibilities Tax provisions with diligence and professional scepticism.
Provisions held in respect of tax risks are included within current and After reviewing the presentations and reports from management deferred tax liabilities depending on the underlying circumstances and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee is of the provision.
Significant management judgement is exercised in satisfied that the Financial Statements appropriately address critical arriving at the amounts to be provided.
judgements and key estimates both in respect to the amounts reported Management confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant at 31 December 2013 represent their best estimate of the likely financial assumptions used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have exposure faced by the Group.
been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they had Fair, balanced and understandable conducted during the year, including how their audit procedures In February 2013, the Committee considered a fair, balanced and were focused on those provisions with the highest level of judgement understandable readiness assessment which identified a number on recognition criteria and or measurement.
The Committee of areas for improvement in our processes to ensure the integrity of discussed with both management and the external auditor the key our Annual Report and Accounts.
These included strengthening the judgements which had been made and were satisfied that they were process for determining whether appropriate weight is given to positive reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded as well as negative news and setting relevant materiality thresholds wereappropriate.
to determine what information should be disclosed.
In August 2013, members of the Annual Report and Accounts project team attended Other provisions including product warranty, legal and a session hosted by the external auditors focused on how to achieve divestment-related provisions better business reporting.
The processes for the compilation of our As further explained in Note 1 to the Financial Statements, a provision Annual Report and Accounts have been strengthened.
An extensive is recognised in the Financial Statements when the Group has a present verification exercise was undertaken to ensure factual accuracy, and legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts were probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably measured, undertaken by Executive and senior management.
An advanced draft will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are recognised at of the Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed by the Committee an amount equal to managements best estimate of the expenditure at our January 2014 meeting, with the final draft being reviewed by required to settle the Groups liability taking into account the time value the Committee prior to it being considered by the Board.
Following of money, where this is considered material.
discussions at our February 2014 meeting, we have advised the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, On legal and contractual exposures, the Committee received reports balanced and understandable.
in July 2013 and January 2014 from the Head of Commercial and Company Secretary outlining the open legal and contractual disputes Oversight of internal audit and risk management and best estimate of the expected costs associated with such matters.
The Committee took responsibility for reviewing the Groups internal controls through engagement with the Head of Internal Audit who Management confirmed to the Committee that the provisions recorded is employed to perform control reviews across the Group according at 31 December 2013 represented their best estimate of the likely to a work programme agreed by the Committee.
The 2013 internal financial exposure faced by the Group.
audit plan was established based on a number of factors including maintaining an appropriate level of audit coverage of the Groups core Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 50 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 51 financial processes through rotational site visits and providing a more comprehensive list of excluded services, also addressing the Committee reasonable assurance that controls for certain key services provided on a contingent fee basis: areas of risk management such as compliance with laws and regulations increased the limits for fees requiring pre-approval from 100,000 operate effectively.
to 150,000 in respect of individual engagements: and increased the annual cumulative cap from 200,000 to 250,000.
The Head of Internal Audit is assisted in this work by five further internal auditors who are located in key strategic locations of the United States, The Committee considers it essential to rigorously impose the Asia and the UK in order to strengthen the audit coverage.
Inaddition, cumulative annual cap for non-audit services save for acquisition the internal audit function draws upon external resources due diligence and taxation services, above which all engagements as deemednecessary.
are subject to the Committees prior approval.
For instance, in July, the Group Finance Director submitted to the Committee a request to The Committee debated and agreed the adequacy of internal assurance approve the engagement of KPMGs tax and legal services in relation to resources at its meetings in July 2013 and January 2014, during which a corporate restructuring project.
KPMG was selected to provide these the progress on the internal audit plan was alsoexamined.
services following a competitive tender process, and the Committee approved the engagement given the nature of the advisory services, Each business unit regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of the fee level being within the annual cumulative cap and KPMGs Group significance against established criteria with respect to the knowledge of the Group.
Non-audit fees for the year amounted to impact, likelihood and time frame of each identified risk.
Further details are included in Note 6 to theAccounts.
each business unit is required to document how it is managing and mitigating these risks.
A summary of the status of risks and The external auditors full-year report to the Committee contained a corresponding mitigating actions is reviewed by the Committee statement on their independence, arrangements to manage conflicts at least twice a year.
of interest and scale of non-audit services provided which was assessed by theCommittee.
Further information on the Groups risk management framework is contained on page 18 in the Strategic Report.
The cumulative cap, periodic refreshment of the external audit team and review of their work, together with the ten-year re-tendering of External auditor appointment, effectiveness and the external audit service contract is considered by the Committee to independence be appropriate controls to mitigate threats to the independence and The Committee is responsible for overseeing the selection process objectivity of the external auditor.
relating to the appointment of the external auditor, making recommendations to the Board for the auditors reappointment The Committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of their and approving the external auditors remuneration, their terms of auditor from the market in their risk evaluation and planning and has engagement and scope of work.
Reappointment of the external auditor concluded that the risk is insignificant.
In the event that the Companys is considered by the Committee each year following a review of the auditor did exit the market, a replacement appointment would be made external auditors effectiveness.
from audit firms of equivalent standing.
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Companys auditor on 12May Whistleblowing policy and process 1998, but the lead audit partner has changed three times subsequently Details of the Groups whistleblowing policy are provided within in line with rotation requirements.
The current audit partner is Richard the Ethics report on page 26.
Alleged breaches of the Code of Broadbelt, who was appointed on 19 April 2012.
It is the Committees Business Ethics are investigated and followed up, with summary current policy to put the external audit contract out to tender at least reports communicated to the Committee on a six-monthly basis.
The next tender will be no later than the planned A refreshed whistleblowing, escalation and incident management rotation of the current audit partner in 2016.
There are no contractual protocol was circulated to the operating company management obligations that restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee Information security reviewed the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan, reports of major An information security programme was established in 2012 to issues arising from the audit process and commentary from the Group evaluate whether the Groups existing controls would benefit from Finance Director, Group finance and internal audit, and operating additional strengthening.
Remediation steps have been taken across company management teams.
the Group during the year to improve security against external attacks.
Penetration testing was conducted, which enabled security teams The Committee has procedures governing and restricting the to identify and remediate potential vulnerabilities.
In addition, an appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
Services information security campaign is being deployed globally to ensure which have the potential to, or appear to, impair their independence, employees understand the value and sensitivity of the information they for example, involvement in activities that require making judgements possess and how to protect it.
The Committee will be scrutinising the or decisions which are the responsibility of management, are expressly Groups information security defences in 2014. precluded.
The policy, which is available on the Companys website, was refreshed during the year to make the following principal changes: Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
