70 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Risk Management Committee 2 We seek to understand, manage and mitigate risks for the long-term success of our business.
Nick Anderson Chairman, Risk Management Committee Ungroup Expand Pathfinder Trim Role of the Committee The risk review process Delete white paths How the Committee spent its time during the year The Committee ensures that the Group We have adopted an integrated approach has operating policies and procedures to our risk management, independent covering everything from financial planning assurance and internal controls to ensure and reporting, capital expenditure, project greater linkage across our review and governance, sanctions and embargoes assessment of risk.
Internal controls and to human rights, business continuity, risk management are designed to limit employee performance management and the chance of failure to achieve corporate how we do business.
Independent assurance is and procedures are in place to ensure the provided by the external auditor and accuracy and reliability of financial reporting internal audit.
and the preparation of consolidated financial The Committee has accountability for Internal controls 20% statements.
The Committee is responsible overseeing the risk management processes Risk management framework 20% for risk management, compliance and procedures, works with the Audit and regulation.
Group policies 15% Committee and reports to the Board on the Anti-bribery 15% principal risks facing the Group.
Our approach and appetite Competition compliance 10% for risk The Committee also monitors the mitigating Business continuity 10% actions put in place by the relevant divisions Our aim is to continue to build a Sanctions and embargo compliance 10% and Group companies to address the sustainable business through consistent, identified risks.
profitable growth and to provide value Membership and attendance to our customers and shareholders.
External consultants are involved in the Committee member Attendance Creating shareholder value is the reward review every three years, with the last review for taking acceptable risks.
The effective Number of meetings 2 taking place in 2011.
A review involving understanding, acceptance and 1 external consultants and our independent M. E. Vernon 2 management of risk is fundamental to the Non-Executive Directors, who take a 2 N. J. Anderson 2 long-term success of the Group.
strong interest in risk management, will be D. J. Meredith 2 conducted in 2014.
Our approach is encapsulated in the N. H. Daws 2 principles of our risk management policy: At a local level, each operating company is J. L. Whalen 2 required to undertake a formal review of the To understand the nature and extent of 1 risks which impact on its business at least risks facing the Group twice a year.
The reviews are consolidated To accept and manage within the business into Group-wide risk reports which are those risks which our employees have maintained and reviewed by the Committee the skills and expertise to understand on a regular basis.
andleverage We have a robust risk management process To assess and transfer or avoid those risks in place through which we identify, evaluate which are beyond our appetite for risk and manage the principal risks that could impact on the Groups performance.
To establish the authority levels within the The following executives are also members of the Group, by consideration of materiality, The principal risks and the product of the Committee: Group Human Resources Director, at which decisions on acceptance and 2013 review are set out on pages 26 and 27.
GroupBusiness Development Director, Steam mitigation of these risks are taken.
FinanceDirector, Divisional Director Americas, Divisional Director Asia Pacific and General Counsel 1 Retired 15th January 2014. and Company Secretary.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 All businesses acquired by the Group are Introduced an online Gifts and Hospitality Internal controls subject to internal audit within one year Register, which allows us to control such The Board has overall responsibility for from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit items centrally and monitor compliance the system of internal controls and for resource is supplemented by experienced, with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of qualified accounting staff from principal The Group-wide risk reports have been management is to implement Board policies Group operating companies and a revised and a new ranking system was on risk and control.
There is an on-going professional auditing firm, BDO International.
introduced to ensure that the risks are review process for identifying and managing Reports are made to the Audit Committee properly prioritised.
We have made sure risks faced by the Group which has been and the Board as a whole.
Whilst there were that our mitigation actions remain robust in place for 2013 and up to the date of the some areas for local improvement identified and implemented changes to improve Annual Report and Accounts.
The review in the internal audit reports, no significant mitigation of the risks where necessary covers and assesses the effectiveness matters were raised in the reports made in of all material controls, including financial, the operating companies audited during We have reviewed the principal risks to operational and compliance controls and the year.
determine whether the risks themselves risk management systems.
This ensures have changed during 2013.
Our view of the As explained by the Chairman, in his that proper accounting records have been changes are set out in the principal risks introduction to Governance on page 58, maintained, financial information used within table on pages 26 and 27 we have built on our strong anti-corruption the business is reliable and the consolidated culture and our Anti-Bribery and Corruption accounts preparation and financial reporting The diverse range of economic, Policy, which includes specific policies process comply with all relevant regulatory geopolitical and accidental external global and a comprehensive training programme reporting requirements.
The system of events has prompted the start of a review called anti-bribery@work.
The programme internal controls is designed to manage, and updating of disaster management was rolled-out across the Group during rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to and business continuity which we are 2013.
At the end of the roll-out, over 2,800 achieve the business objectives.
planning to roll-out across the Group.
We also Senior managers in the EMEA Division The Board believes from its annual reviews ensure that all relevant new appointees were involved in a Eurozone scenario that the system of internal controls is undertake the training.
The training will be planning workshop externally facilitated by embedded in the business and regular refreshed on a regular basis.
The Group PA Consulting Group that considered the review allows for assessment of new and Legal function also makes face-to-face impact of countries leaving the Eurozone.
changing risks in the Groups business.
presentations throughout the Group on The objective was to improve the Groups business ethics.
preparedness in respect of this risk.
In pursuing these objectives, internal The toolkit developed is to be deployed by controls can provide only reasonable and The Committee has ensured compliance other operating companies not absolute assurance against material with centrally documented control misstatement or loss.
procedures on such matters as capital We have produced and issued a new expenditure, information and technology Sanctions, Embargoes and Restrictions As required by the UK Listing Authority, the security and legal and regulatory Policy and Guide to ensure compliance Group has complied throughout the year compliance.
We also followed up on with UN, USA and UK laws and regulations and up to the date of the Annual Report compliance with our Competition Policy, and Accounts with the Code provisions on We intend rolling-out a new Behavioural which was introduced in 2012, to ensure the internal controls.
Based Safety programme Group conducts its business in accordance All operating companies are required with the competition laws of all the countries We have reviewed and improved our annually to complete self-certification in which it operates.
global insurance cover with particular questionnaires regarding compliance with emphasis on lower deductibles and the policies, procedures and minimum Important developments in higher cover levels for our growing requirements for an effective system of the year international businesses.
Our risk management approach is subject The Committees analysis of the risks Self-certification is given by both the General to continuous review and updating to affecting the Group are shown in the Manager and the Finance Manager of take account of new and developing bubble diagram overleaf.
The size of the each operation.
issues which might impact our business bubble shows the impact of the risk on objectives.
The following actions have been the Group.
The colour shows the priority Internal audit undertaken during the year to address of the risk and the position of the risk significant developments: The Board has an established internal audit in the diagram is dictated by likelihood function which allows each of the Group on the X-axis and control on the Y-axis.
Completed the roll-out across the Group operating companies to be audited at This analysis informed the determination of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy least every three years and those judged ofthe principal risks set out on pages and anti-bribery@work programme and to be in higher risk territories are audited 26and27.
introduced a refresher programme more frequently.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
Strategic report 72 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Risk Management Committee continued Risk likelihood, control and impact No control 1 2 6 7 5 3 4 8 High level of control Low likelihood High likelihood low priority medium priority impact of the risk high priority Key risks for Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 1 Economic and political instability 5 Non-compliance with health, safety and environmental legislation 2 Significant exchange rate movements 6 Defined benefit pension deficit 3 Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory 7 Failure to respond to technological developments or customer needs 4 Breach of regulatory requirements 8 Failure to realise acquisition objectives Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee
