Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Nomination Committee Our main focus is on a strong and balanced Board and senior management with a range of skills, experience and diversity.
Bill Whiteley Chairman, Nomination Committee Ungroup Expand Pathfinder Trim those individuals demonstrating high potential Role of the Committee Delete white paths How the Committee spent its fulfilled through our Leadership Academy in The primary responsibilities of the Committee time during the year conjunction with Ashridge Business School are to make appropriate recommendations and our Aspire programme.
tothe Board for the appointment, The Executive Directors meet frequently to re-appointment or replacement of Directors: review organisational staffing requirements keep under review the structure and against career planning of high-potential leaders.
composition of the Board: recommend any The most recent review of succession planning proposed changes to the Board: and consider formed part of the strategic planning meeting succession planning arrangements for Directors held in June 2013. and, more generally, senior executives.
The Group seeks to have Directors who, in In recommending appointments to the Board, addition to relevant technical and commercial the Committee has regard to the overall balance expertise, meet the highest standards of of the skills, knowledge and experience of Board Succession planning 40% judgement, critical thinking and openness.
members against the current and perceived Furthermore, the Group recognises the Recruitment 30% future requirements of the Group and to the importance of diversity at all levels of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Diversity 15% Company as well as on the Board.
Board and Committee composition 15% Review of 2013 We believe that the Boards perspective and Following the announcement of Mr Vernons approach is greatly enhanced through gender, intention to retire, we recommended the age and cultural diversity and it is our policy to appointment of Mr Anderson as Chief Operating consider overall Board balance and diversity Membership and attendance Officer, with a view to him taking over as Group when appointing new Directors.
As illustrated on Chief Executive.
This appointment was part of page 62, the diverse range and nationalities of Committee member Attendance the Groups on-going succession planning and our Board is particularly relevant given the broad Number of meetings 4 followed a comprehensive nomination process.
international reach of the Group.
W. H. Whiteley 4 Mr Bullock advised the Board that he did not We are committed to a target of a minimum of 1 M. E. Vernon 4 intend to seek re-election at the AGM after 25% women on our Board by 2016.
This is a completing nine years as a Non-Executive key element of our Board succession plan and G. R. Bullock 3 Director and Senior Independent Director, therefore we are confident that this target can K. Rajagopal 4 which is the maximum period of tenure for be achieved.
We ensure that, when vacancies G. E. Schoolenberg 4 assured independence as set out in the Code.
arise, women candidates for Board positions are In consequence of Mr Bullock stepping down, actively encouraged as part of the recruitment C. G. Watson 4 the Committee recommended to the Board process.
Board appointments are, in the final 1 that Dr Rajagopal took over as Chairman of analysis, made on merit.
Finally, the We will also encourage the progress of females Committee is engaged in a planned succession in senior positions throughout the Group process to appoint a new independent and, during 2013, females were appointed as Non-Executive Director before the AGM.
President of Spirax Sarco Inc in the USA and Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, who do not Engineering Procurement and Construction have any other connection with the Company, Key Account Manager, Americas.
We are assisted with the appointment of Mr Anderson also constantly improving the intake of female and are assisting with the appointment of the professionals to ensure a better talent pipeline 2 new independent Non-Executive Director.
for senior leadership roles in the future.
We have given increased focus to leadership We have offered practical support for the development through robust succession Department for Business Innovation and Skills planning and a strengthened performance Women on Boards FTSE 250 initiative, 1 Retired 15th January 2014. management culture.
We seek to ensure that by nominating two females from our senior 2 Appointed to the Committee 16th January 2014. we have a high-performing workforce and management team to serve as non-executive that we better identify tomorrows leaders.
directors on other company boards.
We have a management development plan for Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
