60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Board of Directors The Board is chaired by Non-Executive Chairman, Bill Whiteley.
In addition totheChairman, the Board will continue with four Non-Executive Directors andfour Executive Directors.
Nick Anderson David Meredith BSc, MBA 53 FCMA, CGMA 54 Group Chief Executive Finance Director Committees: Committees: Nomination, Risk Management Chairman Risk Management Experience: Experience: Joined the Group in 2011 as Director EMEA for Joined the Group in 1988 as Group the Groups steam specialties business.
MrMeredith was appointed to Mr Anderson was appointed to the Board in the Board as Finance Director in 1992.
He early 2012, became Chief Operating Officer trained as an accountant with Redman Heenan in August 2013 and Group Chief Executive International, a specialist engineering group, in January 2014.
He has broad experience in and was appointed Accountant at their Heenan the industrial engineering industry and prior to Drives Ltd subsidiary.
Mr Meredith later joined joining Spirax Sarco, he was Vice-President of English & American Reinsurance Company John Crane Asia Pacific part of Smiths Group where he held finance positions prior to joining plc.
Before that Mr Anderson was President of the Group.
John Crane Latin America and he previously Bill Whiteley held senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in BSc, FCMA 65 Argentina and the Foseco Minsep Group plc Chairman in Brazil.
Committees: Nomination Chairman Experience: Joined the Group as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2002 and was appointed Chairman in 2009.
Until his retirement in 2008 Mr Whiteley was Chief Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a Director since 1984.
Heis Chairman of Brammer plc and Hill & Smith Holdings PLC.
Mr Whiteley has been awarded an honorary Doctorate ofEngineering by the University of Bath.
Gareth Bullock Krishnamurthy Rajagopal MA 60 FREng, CEng, FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Committees: Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Experience: Experience: Joined the Group in 2005 as an independent Joined the Group in 2009 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Bullock has had Non-Executive Director.
On completing his a career in banking, having retired from the Doctorate in 1980, Dr Rajagopal held senior Board of Standard Chartered PLC in 2010 positions in BOC Group plc prior to being named following roles in Technology and Operations, Chief Executive of BOC Edwards in 1998 and Strategy and Northeast Asia.
He was Executive Director of the BOC Group plc in 2000, responsible for Africa, Middle East, Europe and before retiring in 2006.
He was previously a the Americas as well as for the Risk function.
Non-Executive Director of Foseco Ltd and Dyson Mr Bullock currently serves as a Non-Executive Groupplc.
Dr Rajagopal is a Non-Executive Director Director of Tesco PLC, Global Market Group of WS Atkins plc, Bodycote plc, e2v technologies Ltd and Informa plc, and is a Trustee of the plc and, with effect from 1st April 2014, Porvair plc.
He also serves as Chairman of UMI Ltd. Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 Neil Daws Jay Whalen CEng, FIMechE 51 BA, MBA 57 Executive Director EMEA Executive Director WMPG Committees: Committees: Risk Management Risk Management Experience: Experience: Joined the Group in 1978.
Mr Daws has wide Joined the Group in 1991 as President of manufacturing experience within the Group, Watson-Marlow Inc. in the USA and was having held positions in production and design appointed to the Board in 2012.
Mr Whalen engineering prior to being named as UK Supply was named Sales and Marketing Director of Director.
Mr Daws was appointed to the Board the global Watson-Marlow pump business in in 2003 and was previously responsible for 2002 and in 2010 was appointed to his current Asia Pacific and Supply, including the Groups Group position of President, Watson-Marlow Supply operations in the UK and France, Pumps Group.
Prior to joining Watson-Marlow, Board composition together with the Groups health, safety and Mr Whalen was Vice-President Operations for environmental matters.
he was appointed as Director EMEA for the Chairman Groups steam specialties business.
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson PhD 55 B Comm Acc, ACA, CTA 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Committees: Committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Experience: Experience: Joined the Group in 2012 as an independent Joined the Group in 2009 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Watson is an is Director of Research, Development and Executive Director and Group Finance Director Innovation for AKZO Nobels Decorative Paints of Spectris plc.
He held several tax and finance Division and prior to that served as Vice-President roles before joining Black & Decker in 1988 as of Global Research & Development at Wrtsil Director of Tax and Treasury Europe, and was Oy.
Previously, she held senior management later appointed Vice-President of Business positions with Royal Dutch Shell plc and was Planning and Analysis in the USA.
He then Head of Strategy for Shell Chemicals.
joined Thorn Lighting as Group Finance Dr Schoolenberg is currently a Non-Executive Director before working for Borealis as Chief Director of COVA the Dutch strategic oil stocks Financial Officer and Executive Vice-President agency and Low&Bonar PLC.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities Ungroup Expand Pathfinder Trim Delete white paths 3.
