62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Corporate governance report Ungroup Expand Pathfinder Trim Delete white paths Board composition Mr Whiteley leads the Board as Chairman.
Dr Schoolenberg is an independent He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Chairmans other significant Mr Watson is an independent commitments are set out in his biography Non-Executive Director and Chairman of onpage 60. our Audit Committee.
Mr Anderson took over as Group Chief The Board is supported by Mr Robson, Executive on 16th January 2014 following who is the General Counsel and Mr Vernon's retirement.
Mr Anderson leads Board tenure Company Secretary.
the business and has Board responsibility 03 years 3 for the steam specialties business in the At the AGM to be held on 20th May 2014, Americas and Asia Pacific and the steam all Directors will offer themselves for 46 years 2 Ungroup specialties Supply operations in the UK re-election, with the exception of 79 years 1 Expand and France.
He also chairs the Risk Pathnder Trim Mr Bullock who is retiring and will not seek 10 years 3 Delete white paths Management Committee.
re-election as a Director after completing nine years, which is the maximum period Mr Meredith is the Finance Director.
The Nomination Mr Daws is the Executive Director for the Committee is engaged in a planned steam specialties business in Europe, succession process to appoint a new theMiddle East and Africa EMEA.
independent Non-Executive Director before the AGM.
Mr Whalen is the Executive Director for the Watson-Marlow peristaltic pumps business.
The Board acknowledges with gratitude the significant contributions made by Mr Bullock is an independent Non-Executive Mr Vernon and Mr Bullock to the Groups Director and Senior Independent Director.
Dr Rajagopal is an independent Details of the experience of the Directors, Board nationality Non-Executive Director and, after an biographical information and their roles are 1 British 7 orderly handover with Mr Bullock, became set out on pages 60 and 61.
1 Chairman of our Remuneration Committee American 2 in January 2014.
Dutch 1 1 Mr Anderson holds dual British and American citizenship.
Board attendance Details of the number of Board and Committee Meetings, and individual attendance by Director for 2013, are set out in the table below.
Nomination Remuneration Risk Management Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 4 4 3 2 W. H. Whiteley 7 N A 4 N A N A 1 M. E. Vernon 7 N A 4 N A 2 2 N. J. Anderson 6 N A N A N A 2 D. J. Meredith 7 N A N A N A 2 N. H. Daws 7 N A N A N A 2 J. L. Whalen 7 N A N A N A 2 G. R. Bullock 7 4 3 3 N A K. Rajagopal 7 4 4 3 N A G. E. Schoolenberg 7 4 4 3 N A C. G. Watson 7 4 4 3 N A 1 Retired 15th January 2014.
2 Absence due to attendance at the Advanced Management Programme at Harvard Business School.
N A means not applicable O Ou ur r go gov five er rna nan nc ce e Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Director development Board activities in 2013 Compliance with the Code Directors attend formal training seminars We aim to embed governance practices The governance rules which applied to update their knowledge and duties.
throughout the Group so that they become to the Group for 2013 are found in the The Board is regularly notified of changes to an integral part of running a successful Code.
The Groups compliance in 2013 relevant laws and regulations.
In the diagram below we have with each provision of the Code is set Directors are invited to attend Group set out how the Board spent its time during out in detail on the Groups website, conferences, which provide information on 2013.
The Board agendas are linked to the www.
com, under new product development and sales and fundamentals of a trusted brand, a clear the Governance section.
Business presentations strategic plan, strong leadership, motivated The Group complies with every provision are given at Board meetings to enable employees and satisfied customers, of the Code including provision B.
1.2 a review of new product development, together with the necessary checks and balance of the Board between Executive regional operations, business strategies and balances.
We focus on long-term plans for and Non-Executive Directors.
our businesses, the issues that matter on retirement of Mr Vernon and Mr Bullock, the ground, and what our management and An induction pack is provided to new and the forthcoming appointment of a people are doing day-to-day.
The Board appointees to the Board and induction new independent Non-Executive Director, spends 25% of its time ensuring the Groups procedures include site visits, briefings we will deliberately move to a position of operations and risk management controls by senior managers and meetings with compliance as the number of independent are effective.
In June 2013 the Board major shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors, excluding the devoted considerable time to the Groups Non-Executive Chairman, will be equal to the business and corporate strategy looking, During 2013 Mr Anderson attended the number of Executive Directors.
in particular, at the global competitive Advanced Management Programme and environment and emerging global markets.
Mr Whalen attended the Leadership Best The Board is committed to the Code During 2013 the Board also regularly Practices Executive Programme, both held provisions on board diversity and has set reviewed the Groups performance and at Harvard Business School.
measurable objectives to monitor progress.
satisfied itself that, despite difficult trading Diversity is discussed in more detail in the Approach to governance conditions, management was on track Nomination Committees report on page 69. in delivering the strategic business plan.
Governance helps us to: Annual Report and Accounts In addition, the Board concentrated its Ensure our shareholders receive a good efforts on succession planning, devoting In accordance with the Code, the Directors return on their investment much time to this important subject during confirm that they consider that the Annual its strategic planning meeting in June.
Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Behave with integrity as colleagues, The Board also regarded engagement with is fair, balanced and understandable making sure that each feels valued, shareholders on governance, remuneration and provides the information necessary motivated and rewarded and trading as a significant issue.
Ungroup for shareholders to assess the Groups Treat our customers, suppliers and local Expand performance, business model and strategy.
The Board adopted a Human Rights Policy communities properly Pathfinder Trim to support our values, which is explained in Respect the environment.
the Sustainability report on page 49.
Delete white paths Board focus during 2013 Strategy 30% Operations and risk 25% Governance and shareholders 15% Finance 10% New product development 10% People and succession 10% Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
Strategic report 64 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Corporate governance report continued Governance structure Our governance structure is best illustrated by the diagram set out below.
Audit Nomination Committee Committee Clive Watson Bill Whiteley Group Board Bill Whiteley Remuneration Risk Management Committee Committee Krishnamurthy Nick Anderson Rajagopal Chairmans responsibilities Group Chief Executives responsibilities Managing the business of the Board and facilitating the Managing the Groups business and the effective stewardship participation of each Director of capital, technical and human resources including senior management succession planning Safeguarding robust corporate governance processes and the development and maintenance of governance policies Ensuring appropriate internal controls for risk management Facilitating constructive debate and discussion on Board agenda Developing and recommending corporate and business strategy items and ensuring that alternative viewpoints are considered for Board approval Maintaining appropriate contact, in conjunction with the Maintaining direct contact with shareholders and dealing with GroupChief Executive, with shareholders and in stock market stock market related matters related matters Providing leadership to the Groups most senior executives in their Providing for regular evaluation and feedback of the performance management of functional activities of each Director and the Board Recommending to the Board major changes in the organisational Ensuring effective succession planning for Directors structure of the Group Interfacing with regulatory bodies which may require access to Ensuring that the Group complies with all appropriate legislation theChairman Directing the Groups internal and external communications Working successfully with the Group Chief Executive to ensure Performance of the Group in meeting its short, medium and performance objectives are achieved.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 The Directors attendance record at Board Governance structure Nomination Committee and Committee meetings is set out on The Board Committees and functions are Mr Whiteley page 62.
The Non-Executive Directors listed below together with an overview Recommends Board appointments and meet without the Executive Directors of their activities and the main person reviews succession plans.
present to discuss the Executive Directors responsible.
The terms of reference for the performance and other matters.
The Senior Risk Management Committee Committees are published on the Groups Independent Director Mr Bullock until website, www.
com, Mr Anderson his retirement on 20th May 2014, and as under the Governance section.
Ensures that risk management is meaningful, nominated is available to discuss concerns relevant and focused on improving with shareholders, in addition to the normal Group Board the business.
channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Mr Whiteley Executive or the Finance Director.
Remuneration Committee The Board relies on executive management The Board has a conflicts of interest policy to run the business and monitor Dr Rajagopal and has put in place procedures for the management activities and holds them Recommends remuneration strategy and disclosure and review of any potential or accountable against targets and standards.
framework to attract, retain and reward actual conflicts.
The Board also approves long-term senior executives, determines annual corporate and strategic plans after a full Executive Director and senior executive Committee composition review and assessment of market and remuneration and approves awards The Non-Executive Directors play an technology trends, business drivers and under the Performance Share Plan important governance role in the detailed risks.
Having a senior management team PSP.
The Committee also determines work they carry out on our Committees on that is capable of executing the strategic the remuneration policy set out in the behalf of the Board.
All the Non-Executive plans is a key focus.
Directors are determined by the Board to be The formal schedule of matters Further information on each of the independent in character and judgement, in reserved for the Boards decision Committees activities during the 12 month compliance with the Code.
is available on the Groups website, period to 31st December 2013 is set out in The General Counsel and Company www.
Secretary supports the Committee the Governance section.
Chairmen in making sure members are Board effectiveness Key Board matters include: equipped for informed decision-making In 2012, we commissioned an independently and that they allocate their time to the The approval of corporate and strategic facilitated Board effectiveness review right subjects.
business plans conducted by Dr Long of Boardroom Review Limited, in accordance with The Board has satisfied itself that at least The approval of the annual and interim the provisions of the Code.
The Board one member of the Audit Committee, results effectiveness review for 2013 focused namely Mr Watson, has recent and relevant Interim management statements on monitoring progress with Dr Longs financial experience and is confident that the recommendations.
As a result, the Board collective experience of its members enables Acquisitions disposals has actioned the following: it to be effective.
The Audit Committee also Major capital expenditure has access to the financial expertise of the Detailed strategic planning, which will Group, the external and internal auditors and Director appointments continue during 2014 can seek further professional advice at the Major litigation.
Reviewed succession planning and development of senior managers The Board has delegated specific The Non-Executive Directors provide responsibilities to the four Board Actively engaged in diversity through independent challenge and review, bringing Committees: the Audit Committee, the deployment of diversity training for wide experience, specific expertise and a the Nomination Committee, the Risk all UK employees and being involved in fresh objective perspective.
Management Committee and the senior succession planning, including The Board meets as often as is necessary Remuneration Committee.
the appointment of females in the roles to discharge its duties.
In 2013 the Board of President of Spirax Sarco Inc, in the met seven times.
All Directors are expected Audit Committee USA, and Engineering Procurement and to attend all Board meetings and relevant Construction Key Account Manager, Mr Watson Committee meetings unless prevented by Americas Monitors the integrity of the financial prior commitments, illness or a conflict of statements, ensures significant issues interest.
Directors unable to attend specific Formalised Committee feedback to have been addressed and reviews the Board or Committee meetings are sent the Board effectiveness of internal controls and the relevant papers and asked to provide external audit.
Reviewed the schedule of Board and comments in advance of the meeting to Committee meetings across the year.
the Chairman of the Board or Committee.
In addition, all Board and Committee members receive the minutes of meetings as a matter of course.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
