66 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Audit Committee During 2013, governance was paramount: we focused on processes to make our Annual Report and Accounts fair, balanced and understandable, considered information security risks, reviewed and resolved significant issues and tendered thestatutory audit.
Clive Watson Chairman, Audit Committee Ungroup Expand Role of the Committee Review of 2013 Pathfinder Trim How the Committee spent its Delete white paths time during the year The key responsibility of the Committee The Committee met four times in 2013. is to review the effectiveness of the Both the internal and external auditors attend Groups financial reporting and controls.
its meetings and have direct access to the Accordingly the Committee is authorised by Committee Chairman.
the Board to: The Committee reviews the effectiveness Monitor and review the integrity and of the internal audit, tracks the findings and the audit of the Groups financial the responsiveness of management to results statements any issues identified.
As a safeguard, the Advise the Board on the fair, balanced Committee holds separate meetings with and understandable status of the Annual the external and internal auditors, without Report and Accounts management present, to discuss their External audit 20% respective areas and any issues arising from Corporate governance 15% Oversee the Groups relationship with their audits.
Finance and tax reviews 15% its external auditor including the tender process for the appointment of a new During the year the Committee received Results review 15% auditor and reviewing their independence reports from external and internal auditors Internal audit 15% on the major findings of their work and the Agree the fees and terms of appointment Risk management and controls 15% progress of management follow-up.
of the external auditor including quality Information security 5% andeffectiveness Wereceived assurance on going concern, Membership and attendance pension valuation and risk management.
Consider the principal risks and the risk register Auditor Committee member Attendance Number of meetings 4 Review the Groups internal controls The effectiveness of the external auditor is vital in underpinning the Groups internal C. G. Watson 4 Consider the management letter from controls and the integrity of our systems.
G. R. Bullock 4 the external auditor on its review of the effectiveness of internal controls K. Rajagopal 4 Following revisions to the Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council FRC G. E. Schoolenberg 4 Agree the internal audit work plan and in September 2012 and, in particular, the review the resulting output from that plan recommendation to put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years, during Review all significant issues including the year the Committee approved an finance and tax matters Invitation to Tender ITT document which Review the Groups information security was sent to selected firms.
Review significant financial reporting judgements Set the policy on non-audit work.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 The ITT followed the FRCs guidance ii R&D and software costs Information security and coincided with the end of the current As set out in note 1 on page 111, The Group does not consider that it is high auditors five yearly cycle of partner rotation.
theGroups intangible assets include risk for information theft and assesses itself The service tendered was the year-end capitalised development and software as a low value opportunity for cyber-attack.
Other services, such as tax costs.
The Committee focused on the To date there have been no known compliance and advice, were not within the judgements made by the Company as to cyber-attacks on the Group.
the appropriateness of capitalisation of weremain alert at all times.
Particular attention was paid The objective of the ITT process was to The Group has identified the information to the costs incurred for the implementation benchmark service, fees and value, and to assets that are at risk to ensure the relevant of a new ERP system for Watson-Marlow, gain insight into new ideas and perspectives protection is in place.
which have been capitalised during the year.
that would contribute to the current risk and The Committee enquired as to the progress Over the past five years changes have control environment.
of the system implementation, examined the been made to strengthen our information nature of the capitalised costs and agreed The selection panel comprised the security including: that capitalisation is in accordance with the Committee Chairman, the Finance Director Anti-virus roll-out to mitigate global accounting standards.
and the Group Financial Controller, with virus threat consideration of both quantitative and iii Taxation qualitative measures including the: Implementation of a global operating There is judgement involved in the estimation company network Strength of the audit firms coverage of the Groups tax charge, in assessing the and reputation Penetration testing to assess the security risk of successful challenge by local tax of our network authorities and the recoverability of deferred Strength of the team tax assets.
The Committee considered A single provider to manage our network Depth of knowledge and understanding of reports by the Company, including those the business, industry and listed company An information security audit.
relating to transfer pricing arrangements.
requirements The Committee also considered the The penetration testing is aimed at ensuring appropriateness of recognition of deferred Service approach, quality and our global network remains secure.
tax assets, including those relating independence The testingis carried out by the Commercial to brought forward tax losses in the Fees and value added Arm of the Government Communications UK as a result of accelerated pension Headquarters, with a full test report provided payments.
The Committee reviewed, Transition plan.
listing any vulnerabilities found and how and is comfortable with, the forecasts Based on reports from the panel, the these can be addressed.
A follow-up test and assumptions supporting utilisation of Committee made a recommendation to the is subsequently carried out to ensure the these losses.
Board that, with effect from 20th May 2014, vulnerabilities are fully resolved.
iv Ensuring the Annual Report and Deloitte LLP be appointed as the external Accounts are fair, balanced and Our global network provider complies with auditor, subject to shareholder approval at understandable industry best practice and is Government the AGM.
and Ministry of Defence certified.
We carried out a full assessment and review We look forward to a constructive and to ensure the new more exacting standard Significant issues in relation professional relationship with Deloitte LLP, in was satisfied.
support of the Committees responsibility for to the financial statements oversight of financial reporting.
v Other judgements in the financial During the year the Committee considered statements significant issues in relation to the Groups The Committee, with the approval of the financial statements and disclosures Board, has put in place policies that restrict Pensions, provisions and acquisitions relating to: the types and the amount of non-audit were addressed.
work that can be carried out by the external i The carrying value of goodwill auditor.
The Committee is provided with a report of all non-audit work carried out by The Committee focused on the impairment the external auditor and a full breakdown of testing by the Company of the carrying fees related to non-audit work.
A summary value of goodwill, including the sensitivity of the fees is contained in note 6 on page analysis, and agreed with the conclusion 117.
The policies, restrictions and reporting reached that no impairments were required.
requirements allow the Committee to ensure The Committee agreed with the conclusion that auditor objectivity and independence that, following review, no re-allocation of is maintained.
goodwill was required in respect of Watson-Marlow acquisitions where the We will ensure that these policies and routes to market had been progressively requirements are satisfied with respect to changed from distribution to direct sales.
Deloitte LLP, following their forthcoming appointment as external auditor.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
Strategic report 68 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Audit Committee continued These issues were discussed with Matters considered Fair, balanced and management during 2013, and with the understandable report In 2013, the following matters were auditor when reviewing and agreeing the considered by the Committee and, andaccounts audit plan, and also at the conclusion of the where applicable, by the Board or audit of the financial statements.
One of the key governance requirements other Committees: is for the report and accounts to be fair, After reviewing the presentations and reports balanced and understandable.
The Global competitive environment and from management and consulting with the co-ordination and review of the Group-wide emerging global markets auditor, the Committee is satisfied that the input into the Annual Report and Accounts financial statements appropriately address Acquisitions disposals is a significant exercise performed within an the critical judgements and key estimates, exacting time frame, which runs alongside Operating company reviews both in respect of the amounts reported the formal audit process undertaken by the and the disclosures.
The Committee is also Annual forward plan external auditor.
satisfied that the significant assumptions Group product development used for determining the value of assets and Arriving at a position where initially the liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, Committee and then the Board are satisfied Return of capital to shareholders challenged and are sufficiently robust.
with the overall fairness, balance and Shareholder relations clarity of the document is underpinned by Review of financial the following: Board effectiveness statements Comprehensive guidance for contributors Succession planning During 2013 the Committee considered at operational level many components of business performance Diversity A verification process dealing with the in order to ensure it has a full understanding factual content of the reports Share plans and similar arrangements of the operations of the Group.
Comprehensive reviews undertaken at Executive compensation and benefits Examples of processes the Committee different levels in the Group that aim to uses include: Audit tender ensure consistency and overall balance Determining the position adopted in key Information security Comprehensive review by the senior judgement areas including pensions, management team.
provisions and acquisitions Anti-bribery and corruption The Directors statement on a fair, balanced Risk areas set out in the Risk Management Reprioritisation of principal risks and understandable Annual Report and Committee report Issue of new sanctions, embargoes and Accounts is set out on page 63.
Receipt of regular strategy reports from restrictions policy the Group Chief Executive and operational Global insurance renewal reports from the Divisional Directors Eurozone scenario planning workshop Requesting members of management to impact of countries leaving the Eurozone attend Committee meetings to provide updates on operational and strategic Corporate governance and significant matters legalmatters.
Reviews of the budget and operational plan Review of information security.
Through these processes and its monitoring of the effectiveness of controls, internal audit and risk management, the Committee is able to maintain a good understanding of business performance, key areas of judgement and decision-making processes within the Group.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee
