SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Board of directors 1.
Alex Walker Chairman Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit and Nomination Alex joined the Board in December 2006 and was appointed Chairman Committees of Rotork plc.
He chairs the Nomination Committee and attends other Committee meetings by invitation.
Alex is a Non-executive Director of Zotefoams plc.
He is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring that it operates in 2.
Eric Hutchinson Chief Executive Officer an effective manner.
As Chairman, he sets Board agendas and ensures Eric was appointed to the Board in January 2000 as Chief Financial sufficient time is available for discussing all agenda items, particularly Officer and appointed Chief Executive Officer in September 2013. key strategic issues.
He is also responsible for promoting a culture of openness and debate within the Board, ensuring constructive relations He is responsible for formulating the Groups objectives and strategy between the executive and non-executive directors and encouraging for approval by the Board.
Working with the Chief Financial Officer, he effective communication with shareholders.
sets the annual budget and medium term plan and is responsible for reporting performance against plan to the Board.
Eric also plays a key Until August 2006 Alex was Chief Executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc and role in identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals.
until April 2010 he was a Non-executive Director, Chairman of the 1 5 6 3 2 4 7 46 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Before this appointment, Eric had been Spirents Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining The Carlyle Group, Duncan served as Chief since January 2000, having joined the Company in 1983, working in Executive Officer and President of GTS Ebone, Managing Director various roles within the finance function.
of Equant NV and Chief Executive Officer at Granada Media Group and Mercury Communications.
Eric holds a degree in History from the University of Leicester and undertook postgraduate research in Contemporary History at Trinity After serving in Senegal for Voluntary Service Overseas, Duncan College, Oxford.
He is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified studied at Cambridge University and was also a visiting Professor Accountants and a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
of Business Management at Strathclyde University.
Rachel Whiting Chief Financial Officer Duncan is Chairman of NextiraOne EU and Workshare Limited, Rachel was appointed to the Board in February 2014.
Non-executive Director of euNetworks Group Limited and director of several other companies.
She is responsible for overseeing the financial operations of the Group and setting its financial strategy in conjunction with the Audit 6.
Tom Maxwell Independent Non-executive Director Committee and the Board.
She also oversees the overall framework for Tom was appointed to the Board in October 2007.
He is Chairman financial forecasting, planning, analysis and reporting.
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Before her appointment to the Board, Rachel was Company Secretary and Head of Group Tax and will continue to be Company Secretary until He has considerable fund management and investment trust a successor can be appointed.
She joined the Company in 1986 and experience and, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is worked in various roles within the finance function, before being responsible for developing the Companys policy on remuneration appointed Head of Group Tax in 2003 adding the role of Company of executive directors and other senior managers.
Until September 2007, Tom was Investment Director and Head of Rachel holds a degree in Economics from the University of Bristol.
She the UK Growth & Income Product Group at Martin Currie Investment is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales Management in Edinburgh.
He is a Member of the Chartered Institute and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation and of the of Bankers in Scotland and a Member of the Society of Investment Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Ian Brindle Senior Independent Non-executive Director Tom is a Non-executive Director of Foresight 3 VCT plc and is Chairman Ian was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
He is Chairman of their Audit Committee.
of the Audit Committee and serves on the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Sue Swenson Independent Non-executive Director Sue was appointed to the Board in February 2012.
She is a member As Senior Independent Director, he is responsible for meeting with of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
the other non-executives to review the Chairmans performance and is available to shareholders to discuss their concerns.
She has a wealth of international experience and expertise in the telecommunications and technology sector which she brings to the He was Senior Partner of Price Waterhouse from 1991 to 1998 and development of the strategic vision of the Company.
Chairman of Pricewaterhouse Coopers until 2001.
Ian was also a member of the Accounting Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 From March 2008 until her retirement in April 2011, Sue served as and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between President and CEO of Sage Software, Inc. the North American division 2001 and 2008. of The Sage Group plc.
Before joining Sage Software, she held positions as the COO of Atrinsic, Inc. formerly known as New Motion, Ian serves as a Non-executive Director of Elementis plc.
Inc., Ampd Mobile, Inc. and T-Mobile, was President and COO of Leap Wireless International, Inc. and President and CEO of Cellular One.
Duncan Lewis Independent Non-executive Director Duncan was appointed to the Board in July 2007.
He is a member of the Sue is a Non-executive Director of Wells Fargo and sits on their Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Audit and Examination Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee.
She also serves as Non-executive Director on the boards He has wide-ranging experience in the telecommunications industry of Harmonic, Inc. serving as Chair of the Nominating and Governance and provides advice and counsel to the Board on major strategic issues.
Committee and sitting on their Audit and Examination Committee, and Novatel Wireless, Inc. sitting on their Compensation Until March 2011, Duncan was Chief Executive Officer of Vislink plc and Committee.
In August 2012, Sue was appointed by the US National until October 2008 was Senior Adviser to The Carlyle Group, assisting Telecommunications and Information Administration as a founding them in developing strategy and identifying investments in the Board member of the First Responder Network Authority.
telecommunications and media sectors worldwide.
