STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee Responsibilities and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board The Nomination Committees main focus is on strengthening, balancing is maintained.
When discussions relate to the appointment of the and understanding the range of skills, experience and diversity of the Company Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director Board, its Committees and key roles below Board level.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at On 3 September 2013, when Bill Burns stepped down as Chief http: corporate.
com Governance Board Committees or from Executive Officer, the Nomination Committee considered the skills and the Company Secretary at the registered office.
experience of the Companys Chief Financial Officer, Eric Hutchinson, in particular his knowledge of the Company and its operations, and Composition of the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board his appointment as Chief At the date of this Report, the Nomination Committee comprises the Executive Officer.
Company Chairman, who also acts as Committee Chairman, and four independent Non-executive Directors.
After a period of adjustment and internal reorganisation, the Committee reviewed the role of Chief Financial Officer and generated a Meetings and attendance set of criteria upon which to base recruitment.
As an internal candidate, The Committee meets at least two times each year and at other times Rachel Whiting was already well-known to the Board and Committee, as necessary.
During 2013, three meetings were held, with individual however, in order to validate her skills and experience against the members attendance as follows: criteria, the Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to carry out a benchmarking process on her suitability for the role.
On receiving a Number of Number of formal report substantiating her suitability for the role of Chief Financial meetings held meetings attended Officer, the Committee was pleased to unanimously recommend her Alex Walker Chairman 3 3 appointment as Chief Financial Officer and to the Board.
Spencer Stuart 1 Ian Brindle 3 2 has no other connection with Company.
Duncan Lewis 3 3 Tom Maxwell 3 3 Following the internal reorganisation undertaken by the Chief Executive Sue Swenson 3 3 Officer in the second half of 2013, the Committee will be developing an updated succession plan in 2014 to take account of new roles and Note reporting lines.
1 Mr Brindle was unable to attend an ad hoc Committee meeting as it conflicted with a meeting already in his diary for another listed company.
Mr Brindle received all papers Diversity relating to the meeting and had the opportunity to discuss issues arising direct with the The Committee and, indeed, the Board, recognises the benefits of Chairman.
In this instance, he also appointed Alex Walker as his proxy for the duration having diversity across all areas of the Group and believes that this of the meeting.
contributes to the Companys strategic advantage.
Neither the Committee nor the Board sets specific targets or objectives for Committee activity during the period diversity.
However, when considering the optimum composition of the The Committee considered and made recommendations to the Board in Board, the benefits of a diverse Board are appropriately reviewed and respect of: balanced, where possible, including in terms of differences in skills, industry experience, business model experiences, gender, race, the appointment of Eric Hutchinson as Chief Executive Officer: disability, age, nationality, background and other contributions that the appointment of Rachel Whiting as Chief Financial Officer and to individuals may bring.
The Committee continues to focus on the Board: encouraging diverse skill sets, capabilities and experience, recognising the appointment of senior executives resulting from the Groups that directors from different geographical and cultural backgrounds internal reorganisation: may enhance the performance of the Board.
matters relating to succession planning in the light of the tenure of current non-executive directors: and When identifying suitable candidates, the Committee will seek the results of the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the candidates from a range of backgrounds, with the final decision being directors, including the review of the continued independent status based on merit over objective criteria.
With the appointment of Rachel Whiting to the Board on 1 February Appointment of directors 2014, women currently represent 29% of our Board: further details of There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the the gender diversity within the Company can be found in the Our appointment of new directors to the Board under which the Committee Employees section on pages 36 to 37 of this Annual Report.
interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing Board members or by an executive search firm.
The search for Committee performance evaluation candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against Having reviewed the results of the Boards and the Committees objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
performance evaluations, the Committee has confirmed to the Board When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Committee that the present Board and its Committees continue to operate proposes the appointment to the whole Board, which retains effectively and that all of the non-executive directors remained responsibility for all such appointments.
independent in accordance with the Code and should stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Careful consideration is given to ensure that proposed appointees for non-executive roles have enough time available to devote to the role 53
