SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors statement on corporate governance Compliance statement The Board fully supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the provisions Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in of the Code throughout the period under review except for Code September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or after Provision D. 1.5 in relation to Eric Hutchinsons fixed term contract, 1 October 2012 the Code and is available at www.
as described more fully in the Report on directors remuneration on page 64.
This Report describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
Governance framework Shareholders 3,557 shareholders as at 27 February 2014 Board Non-executive Chairman Two executive directors Four independent non-executive directors Nomination Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Non-executive Chairman Four independent Four independent non-executive directors non-executive directors Four independent non-executive directors Provides oversight and Agrees remuneration policy and governance over the Groups sets individual compensation Primary responsibility annual reporting, internal controls, levels for executive directors for succession planning, risk management and relationship and senior management Board director selection and with external auditors Board composition Committee report Committee report pages 58 76 Committee report pages 54 57 page 53 48 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Senior Independent Director Board The role of Senior Independent Non-executive Director SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the other Leadership non-executive directors, if needed.
The SID is also available to meet The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision with shareholders upon request if they feel that they have concerns which was reviewed and updated during the course of the year.
The which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or an Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term success of executive director has failed to resolve or for which such contact would the Company by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
The Board seeks to achieve this through setting out its strategy, monitoring its strategic objectives and providing oversight and Board activity during the period direction to the management team.
The Board considers the impact of At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer presents a its decisions on wider stakeholders including employees, suppliers and comprehensive update on the performance, strategy and business the environment.
issues across the Group and the Chief Financial Officer presents a detailed analysis of the financial performance of the business units.
Division of responsibilities Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of Board There is a clear division of responsibilities at the Company between the meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of running of the Board, undertaken by the Non-executive Chairman, and responsibility: this gives the Board access to a broader group of the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business, executives and helps the directors make assessments of the Groups which is in the hands of the Chief Executive Officer.
This division of succession plans.
The Board has a rolling programme of visits to roles is reviewed and approved by the Board.
business unit locations to deepen its appreciation of the different opportunities and challenges that each unit faces, in order that strategy discussions can reflect a greater understanding.
During the period under review, the Board in particular reviewed: Strategy identification and evaluation of strategic options for near and long Governance Shareholder relations term the Groups treasury investor feedback policy following investor the Groups tax policy presentations and the Groups risk appetite meetings Board evaluation Board and Committees Values and standards Financial updates on legal the Groups annual developments, budget and additional compliance and ethics investment in research training and development development and update of the Groups anti-bribery programme Business performance Diversity and talent operational performance talent management and of each business unit development across the Group 49 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Composition of the Board Board procedures During 2013, ten Board meetings were held.
The agenda is set by the At the date of this Report, the Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two Chairman together with the Chief Executive Officer and all members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate, clear and accurate executive directors.
information in a timely manner covering matters which are to be considered.
Minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members and, The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors contribute entrepreneurial leadership and external expertise and experience in subject to their agreement, approved at the following Board meeting.
areas of importance to the Company, such as strategic investments, corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance.
They Attendance The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings held during also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations, and assist in the development of the Companys 2013 was as follows: Number of strategy, scrutiny of the performance of management in meeting Number of meetings meetings held attended agreed goals and targets, and satisfying themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
Alex Walker Chairman 10 10 1 The Board believes that all of the directors devote sufficient time Bill Burns 5 5 and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
Eric Hutchinson 10 10 2 Ian Brindle 10 8 Independence Duncan Lewis 10 10 The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment and at Tom Maxwell 10 10 least annually with particular reference to the considerations set out Sue Swenson 10 10 in Code Provision B.
The Board determined that the non-executive directors are each independent in character and judgement: none have Notes 1 Mr Burns stepped down from the Board on 3 September 2013. been employed by the Company previously in any capacity or have any 2 Mr Brindle was unable to attend two ad hoc meetings of the Board as they conflicted material business relationship with any Group company.
Non-executive with meetings already in his diary for other listed companies.
Mr Brindle received all directors at Spirent receive no remuneration from the Company other papers relating to the meetings and had the opportunity to discuss issues arising than their fees detailed in the Report on directors remuneration on directly with the Chairman.
He also appointed Alex Walker as his proxy for the duration of the meetings.
page 65, and each non-executive director has confirmed that they do not represent any significant shareholder in the Company.
No Biographical details for each of the directors are set out on pages 46 individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making and Code Provision B.
1.2, stating that at least half of the Board and 47 and can also be found on the Companys website at http: corporate.
com About-Us Our Board of Directors.
excluding the Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors, is satisfied.
Re-election of directors In accordance with Code Provision B.
7.1, all directors will be subject to election or annual re-election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all directors retiring at the 2014 AGM on the basis that they are all effective directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of commitment in their respective roles.
1 1 1 2 3 2 2 1 1 1 Board composition Length of tenure of directors Gender diversity 1.
Executive directors 2 Note 1 At the date of this Annual Report.
50 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Service contracts and letters of appointment Board performance evaluation Every year, the Board and its committees Audit, Nomination and The terms of executive directors service contracts are disclosed in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 58 to 76.
Directors Remuneration evaluate their performance in accordance with Code Provision B.
In 2012, the evaluation was conducted by Useful interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 70.
Useful Thinking Ltd has no other connection with the Company.
The Board reflected on the points raised by the process and Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys during 2013 focused in particular on the development of strategic planning and increasing the diversity both on the Board itself and registered office and will be available at the AGM, which will take place on 23 April 2014. within the Companys executive team.
This year the process was managed internally in the form of a confidential questionnaire which Induction and development focused on all areas of Board and Committee activities.
The results were discussed by the Board and as a result of this years evaluation, Following the appointment of any new director, the Chairman and Company Secretary ensure that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Board intends to look at the following during 2014: the Company is made available.
The Company Secretary is on hand to answer any questions which may arise.
All directors receive regular to continue to review and advance strategic planning: updates on key administrative issues and changes in the law, corporate to provide more opportunities for non-executive directors to meet governance and best practice.
Directors are given the opportunity to with executives and senior managers below Board level to assist in highlight specific areas where they feel their skills or knowledge would the identification of internal talent for succession planning: benefit from development as part of the Board evaluation process.
to build greater visibility and connection with the business units to develop a mutual understanding of roles and challenges: and Company Secretary to strengthen the Board with the appointment of additional The Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is non-executive directors in order to ensure orderly succession for responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board appointments and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board.
on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive directors All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to assess Secretary and can take independent professional advice in respect performance and to discuss the performance of the executive directors of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Chairman has concluded that during the year under review the commitment and application of the nonDirectors indemnification executive directors was of a high standards, including each having In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a qualifying sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
third party indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each director.
The Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
These provisions are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
51 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The Senior Independent Non-executive Director met with the other Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective independent Non-executive Directors on 6 November 2013, in the investors covering the full-year and half-year results and the Company absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the After considering and discussing the tasks undertaken by the Chairman Companys governance policies and procedures.
The Strategic Report during the period under review, the independent Non-executive on pages 2 to 43 details the financial performance of the Company as Directors agreed that Mr Walker gave appropriate time and well as setting out the risks it faces.
commitment to his role as Chairman of the Company and was effective in that role throughout 2013.
The Company is always keen to hear the views of its private shareholders and we encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox Directors conflicts investor.
com for detailed enquiries and to access Under the Companies Act 2006, the directors have a statutory duty to our website www.
com for our Company reports and avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect business information.
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and Any concerns raised by shareholders, whether directly or expressed potential conflicts where appropriate, if the Articles of Association through voting patterns at the Companys AGM are discussed by the contain a provision to this effect.
directors and an appropriate response given.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and Annual General Meeting is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors The Companys AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 23 April of the Company.
2014 at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
The Board believes that the following process shown below and At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives an update on the established to monitor conflicts of interest is operating effectively.
positioning and outlook for the Company.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow up these Shareholder engagement discussions with directors on a one-to-one basis afterwards.
The The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with Chairmen of each of the committees of the Board and the Senior shareholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Independent Director will be in attendance and will be available Officer have regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders to respond to questions at the AGM.
in order to develop an understanding of their views which is then discussed with the Board.
All directors are offered the opportunity to The Board looks forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our 2014 meet with major shareholders to listen to their views and Executive AGM and to updating them on our business developments.
Directors receive regular reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm which provides comprehensive information relating to the Companys major shareholders.
Directors are responsible for Any conflicts identified are Directors are required to review notifying the Company Secretary presented to the Board for and approve a register of potential if they become aware of any consideration and, as appropriate, conflicts on appointment and actual or potential conflict authorised in accordance with the annually thereafter situations or a change in Companies Act and the Companys circumstances relating to an Articles of Association existing authorisation 52
