the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 41 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT the group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
the following section will detail how the uk corporate governance code has been applied during the year.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CODE i am pleased to introduce the corporate governance statement which contains the overall responsibility for the groups risk management and internal controls details of the activities of the board and its committees and how the group systems sits with the board.
this is an on-going process which relates to the complied with the uk corporate governance code 2012 for the 52-week period identification, evaluation, management and monitoring of significant risks.
this ended 28 april 2013. the annual report is regarded as the cornerstone of the complies with the uk corporate governance code.
this report is aimed at providing a the board is subject to the latest corporate governance code, which was clear understanding of the governance in the group.
issued in september 2012. the main principles of the code are: our diverse board remains committed to ensuring that corporate governance Leadership is maintained in the current challenging climate.
the structure of the board has remained constant for some time now, and the group has found that this has Effectiveness led to a higher degree of trust and uniformity when it has come to making tough Accountability business decisions.
Remunerations in line with the recommendations of the tyson report, the group wholeheartedly Relations with Shareholders agrees that board diversity should ultimately benefit shareholders.
following on from the davies report in february 2011, the groups board excluding the the board has reviewed the companys corporate governance processes and chairman is made up of 14% women.
this is in excess of the figures provided policies, and has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 28 april 2013 the from the cranfield report in april 2013 which stood at 13.3%, and also bears year the company complied with the provisions of the code except as set out comparison to the number of senior women in the public sector.
boardroom is a major consideration to the group, as is merit, and these will be provision b.
1.1 states the board should state its reasons if it determines that key objectives when appointing future board members as and when suitable vacancies arise.
however, due to the geographical locations, complexity, and a director is independent notwithstanding the existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its determination, including if the the nature of the operations of the group, ensuring that we have the correct level of relevant knowledge, skills and experience in the boardroom is the director: has received or receives additional remuneration from the company immediate priority.
apart from a directors fee, participates in the companys share option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the companys pension we are aware of the european commission proposal on 14 november 2012 scheme.
keith hellawell, the groups chairman, has the option to buy 50,000 for a gender diversity directive, which aims for 40% of board members to be shares for the nominal value of 0.10 per share in the group on an annual made up by women by 2020, and lord davies recommendation that ftse 350 basis.
the board and remuneration committee are satisfied that the additional companies should aim towards voluntary targets.
as a result of these, over remuneration does not impair his independence.
this year, as with last year, the forthcoming year we have set a voluntary target in line with the european keith hellawell has opted to waive his right to take the shares.
commission proposal, which is both fair and achievable.
however, we do not agree with the trades union congress proposal to impose compulsory quotas, THE BOARD as we feel that this will be both prejudicial to women and detrimental to businesses.
the board consists of a non-executive chairman, keith hellawell, the deputy chairman, mike ashley, two other executive directors, and four further nonacross the group we employ thousands of individuals from a wealth of executive directors.
the names, skills and short biographies of each member of backgrounds.
we aim to employ individuals based on relevant skills, knowledge the board are set out on pages 34 and 35. and criteria, rather than based on age, race or gender.
we are looking to replicate our success of women in the business to senior management and the size and composition of the board are regularly reviewed by the board to the boardroom.
ensure that there is the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
succession planning is extremely important to the group in order to mitigate risk Role of the Board and build on the strengths, skills and competencies which we currently possess.
the role of the board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the group.
although our current structure remains appropriate at present, we aim to share this is achieved through the review, development and implementation of the knowledge of key individuals in order that when they leave, the skills that the groups strategy.
the board also maintains responsibility for corporate they have learnt remain in the group.
under our forward-looking approach we responsibility, accountability and to ensure effective leadership is delegated to aim to utilise the resources from our own talent pool.
we offer a large variety management for the day to day running of the group and ensures an appropriate of activities, including site visits and specialised training, to improve personal strategy is in place for succession planning.
development and to progress our colleagues to the next step in their careers within the group.
current and future vacancies are advertised both internally and the board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its responsibility externally to ensure that the largest range of individuals view it and can apply, in of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the group within a the hope that the appointment is awarded to the most suitable individual.
framework of prudent and effective controls.
the group is actively considering how to make management roles more the board plans to meet on a formal basis six times during the year with up to attractive.
in future we are looking at how to attract the highest calibre of four additional strategy meetings at convenient times throughout the year when individuals, including exploring family-friendly working and graduate training broader issues concerning the strategic future of the group will be discussed.
we hope to encourage both men and women of all backgrounds to the board will meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
senior positions within the group.
during the year the board met on five occasions.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 42 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT continued THE BOARD continued a detailed agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate the company has entered into a relationship agreement with mike ashley, the documentation is provided to directors in advance of the meeting.
regular executive deputy chairman, whose wholly owned company, mash holdings board meetings provide an agenda that will include reports from the chief limited, currently holds approximately 64.40% of the issued share capital of executive, the group finance director, reports on the performance of the the company excluding treasury shares.
this agreement is described in the business and current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from directors report on pages 38 to 39. committees of the board and specific proposals where the approval of the board the chief executive is responsible for the running of the groups business for is sought.
the board will monitor and question monthly performance and review the delivery of the strategy, leading the management team and implementing anticipated results.
specific decisions made by the board to help meet shareholder expectations.
presentations are also given on business or strategic issues where appropriate, the chief executive reports to each board meeting on all material matters and the board will consider at least annually the strategy for the group.
minutes affecting the groups performance.
no one individual has unfettered power of the meetings of committees of the board are circulated to all members of of decision.
the board, unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all directors to have given the structure of the board, the fact that the chairman and chief executive oversight of those matters delegated to committees, and copies of analysts roles are fulfilled by two separate individuals and the terms of the relationship reports and brokers notes are provided to directors.
agreement with mike ashley, the board believes that no individual or small it is the responsibility of the directors to ensure that the accounts are prepared group of individuals can dominate the boards decision making.
having assessed the current annual report, along with the The Non-Executive Directors accounts, the directors confirm that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced the board consists of four non-executive directors and the chairman.
the directors authorise that these documents provide of the non-executive directors is to understand the group in its entirety and the necessary information in order for shareholders to assess the groups constructively challenge strategy and management performance, set executive performance, business model and strategy.
remuneration levels and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is Key Activities in place.
they must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy of financial information and that thorough risk management processes are in place.
ensuring the long-term success of the group the non-executive directors have excellent experience from a wide range of considering the obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders sectors.
the non-executive directors assist the board with issues such as considering the effect the groups activities have on the environment and governance, internal control, remuneration and risk management.
community in which it operates maintaining a high business reputation simon bentley is the senior independent non-executive director.
he supports the chairman and non-executive directors and is available to shareholders if maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the wider community they have concerns.
there is a formal schedule of matters that require board approval: they are The Non-Executive Directors External Appointments matters that could have significant strategic, financial or reputational effects on non-executive directors are required to disclose prior appointments and other the group as a whole.
significant commitments to the board and are required to inform the board of any changes to or additional commitments.
details of the non-executives Matters Reserved for the Board directors external appointments can be found on pages 36 and 37. sets budgets before accepting new appointments non-executive directors are required to monitors and reviews strategy and business performance obtain approval from the chairman, and the chairman requires the approval of approves acquisitions, expansions into other regions countries the whole board.
it is essential that no appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises the non-executive directors commitment and time spent with appointments and removal of board members the group in their existing appointment.
succession planning overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described The Non-Executive Directors Independence on pages 28 to 31 the group considers the non-executive directors to be independent in accordance with the 2012 uk corporate governance code.
The Chairman and Executive Directors the division of responsibilities between the non-executive chairman, the claire Jenkins had been a consultant for the company on an ad hoc basis for executive deputy chairman and the chief executive is in writing and has been approximately fifteen days each year between 2007 and 2010. notwithstanding agreed by the board however they work closely together to ensure effective this involvement, the board still believes that she is independent in character decision-making and the successful delivery of the groups strategy.
the chairman is responsible for leadership of the board, ensuring its Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Conflicts of Interest effectiveness and that all directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the board has set procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest that the company.
he ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear arise.
during the year the board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved information.
the chairman officiates effective communication with shareholders certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by directors, and and that the board understands the views of major investors, and is available to a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
the board provide advice and support to members of the executive team.
noted any transactional conflicts of interest concerning directors that arose and were declared.
no director took part in the discussion or determination of any the executive deputy chairman is an ambassador for the company.
he takes matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
the lead in the strategic development of the company, formulating the vision and strategy which he does in conjunction with the chief executive.
the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 43 Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Re-election all directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, the group complies with the 2012 uk corporate governance code and all and each director and each board committee may take independent professional directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
advice at the companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other non-executive directors and the company secretary.
the company maintains the board have determined that all directors must put themselves forward appropriate directors and officers insurance.
for election or re-election at the 2013 agm to comply with the uk corporate governance code.
retiring directors may seek reappointment if willing and Executive and Non-Executive Directors - Performance Evaluation eligible to do so and if so recommended by the nomination committee.
all there is a formal process in place for the performance evaluation of the board, directors appointed by the board are appointed after consideration of the its committees and individual directors.
each director is given the opportunity recommendations of the nomination committee, and those so appointed must to express their views on the organisation and operation of the board and its stand for reappointment at the following annual general meeting.
committees, their effectiveness and contribution to the business, and on any other matter they consider relevant.
details of executive directors service contracts and of the chairmans and the non-executive directors appointment letters are given on page 49. copies of the chairman holds regular development reviews with each director and an service contracts and of appointment letters are available for inspection at the internal board evaluation was facilitated by the chairman who provided the companys registered office during normal business hours and at the annual other members of the board with a confidential questionnaire.
the findings were general meeting.
Executive and Non-Executive - Training and Development the evaluation did not highlight any areas of concern and the directors are all newly appointed directors are provided with a tailored induction programme satisfied the board and its committees are operating effectively.
based on their existing skills and experience.
the board is also informed of any the board and the nomination committee will consider the output from the material changes to laws and regulations affecting the groups business.
evaluation programme in their evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of the board, and in formulating development plans.
BOARD COMMITTEES to assist the board with their duties, there are three principal board attendance by directors at board and committee meetings during the year and committees, being the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the the total number of meetings that they could have attended are set out in the nomination committee.
the committees are governed by terms of reference table below.
all directors attended all meetings of the board and of committees which provide detail of matters delegated to each committee and the authority of the board of which they were members unless prevented from doing so they have to make decisions.
full terms of reference are available on request and by prior commitments.
the board is satisfied that currently no one director on the companys website.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Committee Meetings keith hellawell 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 mike ashley 6 9 - 1 4 - simon bentley 6 9 2 3 3 4 2 2 dave forsey 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 claire Jenkins 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 charles mccreevy 9 9 3 3 2 4 2 2 bob mellors 8 9 3 3 4 4 - dave singleton 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 a number of audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee meetings were attended by board members who were not members of the committees.
the board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the committee members.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 44 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT continued AUDIT COMMITTEE attendance at meetings of committees is set out on page 43. reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditors and relationships with them and in particular agreeing and monitoring the extent directors who served on the committee during the year were: of the non-audit work that may be undertaken.
monitoring, making judgements and recommendations on the financial reporting process and the integrity and clarity of the groups financial simon bentley chairman statements.
dave singleton reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management policies and systems in place.
charles mccreevy monitoring the audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
claire Jenkins reporting to the board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
simon bentley, the chairman of the audit committee is a chartered accountant, What has the Committee done during the year?
has relevant financial experience and is supported by the rest of the committee.
monitored the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the all of the members of the committee are considered independent, ensuring that the interests of the shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial current economic climate and its likely impact on the group.
considered the reappointment of the auditors.
reviewed accounting policies, presentations and the financial statements.
in addition to the committee members, the external auditors are invited to approved policy for non-audit work.
attend meetings of the committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the committee reviews the performance of the auditors and when the committee is on an annual basis, the audit committee considers the reappointment of the having separate discussions with the group finance director, who also attends auditors and their remuneration and makes recommendations to the board.
the committee meets the auditors in the absence of executive auditors are appointed each year at the annual general meeting.
the committee management at least twice a year and the chairman of the audit committee consider the level of service provided by the auditors and their independence.
meets with the auditors as and when it is needed.
the committee recommend the reappointment of grant thornton uk llp for where requested by the board, the audit committee can provide advice on fy14.
the committee believes their independence, the objectivity of the external whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced audit and the effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to strong.
this is displayed through their robust internal processes, their continuing assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
challenge, their focused reporting and their discussions with both management and the audit committee.
the committee met on three occasions during the year.
the audit committee will meet not less than three times a year: this could be increased depending on to maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external auditors are the groups requirements.
required to rotate audit partners for the group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been in place for four years.
under the corporate the committees programme is pre-planned to ensure that each aspect of its governance code 2012, audit services must be put to tender at least every responsibilities is discharged as part of an annual cycle during the companys ten years or else we must explain why we have not done so.
auditors, namely grant thornton uk llp, have been in place since the listing The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: in february 2007. assisting the board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to the committee has approved a policy on the engagement of the external internal and external audits and controls.
auditors for non-audit work, in order to ensure that the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the groups financial statements is not or may not be seen to be agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual audit plan and impaired, and has established a process to monitor compliance.
the policy identified three categories of potential work.
Auditor Authority Type of Work work the auditor may not provide as the work includes the preparation of accounting entries or financial statements, it systems design and completing the task could create a threat implementation, management of projects and tax planning where the outcome would have a material impact to independence.
on the financial statements or where the outcome is dependent upon accounting treatment.
work the auditor may undertake with corporate finance services, acquisition due diligence, management consultancy and secondment of staff other the consent of the chairman of the than for the preparation of accounting entries or financial statements.
work the auditor may undertake.
there are services that the auditors may provide as the work is clearly audit related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
the company is satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements of the auditing practices board.
the business review Management & Governance financial statements & notes additional information 45 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE directors who served on the committee during the year were: The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: determining the companys policy on executive remuneration, including dave singleton chairman the design of bonus schemes and targets and payments made thereunder.
determining the levels of remuneration for the chairman and each of the simon bentley executive directors.
keith hellawell monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in respect thereof.
charles mccreevy agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any executive director.
claire Jenkins the remuneration committee meets at least three times a year and met on three occasions during the year.
the remuneration committee assists the board to ensure appropriate levels of pay and benefits are in place for executive and non-executive directors.
a key a report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 48 to 50. priority is to ensure that remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long term success of the group.
the committee ensures that it complies What has the Committee done during the year?
with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including the uk code whilst meeting shareholder and employee expectations.
all members of reviewed executive remuneration to include salaries and bonuses.
the committee are non-executive directors and are considered independent.
reviewed and approved the directors remuneration report contained on pages 47 to 50. full details of directors remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on pages 48 and 49.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE members of the nomination committee during the year were: The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: review the boards structure.
keith hellawell chairman review the composition and make up of the board, including evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the members of the board.
simon bentley give consideration to succession planning for directors.
dave singleton prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any board appointment.
charles mccreevy make recommendations to the board concerning the standing for reappointment of directors.
the nomination committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when appropriate.
the committee met on two occasions during the year.
identify potential candidates to be appointed as directors, and make all of the nomination committee members are non-executive directors and recommendations to the board as the need may arise.
the board has established a nomination committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
the composition of that committee and a description of its terms of reference are set out on the sports direct international plc website.
the nomination committee also determines succession plans for the chairman and the chief executive who are not present at meetings when the matter is discussed.
succession plans are reviewed by the nomination committee at least once a year.
dave forsey, the chief executive, will usually attend meetings of the nomination committee, unless the nomination committee is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
the board believes that the board and its committees as currently constituted are working well.
Sports Direct plc Annual Report 2013 46 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT continued UK BRIBERY ACT REMUNERATION following the introduction of the uk bribery act, all policies and procedures the remuneration committee is responsible for determining and reviewing have been reviewed to ensure that they comply with the act and measures are remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
see remuneration report in place to prevent employees accepting bribes.
on pages 47 to 50. BUSINESS MODEL SHARE DEALING CODE our business model, which sets out the basis on which the company generates the group has adopted the model code as published in the uk listing rules.
or preserves value over the longer term, and the strategy for delivering the anyone deemed to have insider information must seek consent before dealing objectives of the company can be found at page 5. in the groups shares.
WHISTLE-BLOWING the executive directors require the consent of the chairman or the senior independent director and the chairman requires consent from the chief the group has a formal whistle-blowing policy for employees who wish to raise executive and the senior independent non-executive director.
any other any issues or concerns relating to the companys or groups activities on a employees with insider information must gain the consent of the chief confidential basis.
executive or company secretary before dealing in the groups shares.
details concerning the share capital structure of the company can be found in GOING CONCERN the directors report on pages 38 to 40. the companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the business RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES review on pages 18 to 31. the key features of the groups system of internal control and risk management the financial position of the company, its cash flows, liquidity position and systems in relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the borrowing facilities are described in the finance directors review on pages group accounts are set out below or cross-referred to other parts of the annual 32 to 35. in addition, notes 27 and 28 of the financial statements include the report where relevant.
groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging the board of directors has overall responsibility for determining the nature activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control the company is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial systems, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
the risk management process resources.
the company continues to operate comfortably within its banking and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the facilities and covenants, which run until march 2015. the company is wellrisk of failures to achieve the companys objectives.
it should be recognised that placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
as a consequence, the directors believe that the company is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
the directors have a reasonable expectation that the ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the a system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is embedded within foreseeable future.
thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of the management processes throughout the group.
strategic risks are regularly accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary operating units are assessed continuously.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the groups business, the board recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
this and how the group seeks to mitigate these, can be found on pages 28 to 31. is done through the annual report and financial statements, interim statements and trading updates.
all directors are available at the annual general meeting when shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions.
by order of the board the chairman, chief executive and finance director regularly meet with the companys institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and Rebecca Tylee-Birdsall financial performance within the constraints of information already available to company secretary the public.
the senior independent non-executive director is also available to 18 July 2013 meet with shareholders.
keith hellawell, david singleton and claire Jenkins met with shareholders and institutions to discuss various topics throughout the year and to gain a better understanding of the views of shareholders.
the companys website is an important method of communication and holds all material information reported to the london stock exchange together with copies of financial reports, interim management statements and trading updates.
