Governance Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee Members and meetings reviewing the Companys financial reports and formal announcements assists the Board in Membership Attended scheduled to ensure they represent an accurate, the effective discharge clear and balanced assessment of the Richard Gillingwater 3 3 Companys position and prospects: of its responsibilities Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 monitoring and reviewing the for financial reporting Jeremy Beeton 3 3 effectiveness of the Companys and internal control, accounting systems, internal control Ren Mdori 1 1 policies and procedures and risk together with the Ren Mdori retired from the Committee on 25 June 2012. management systems: procedures for assessing and reviewing the the identification, I was pleased to take over from Ren effectiveness of the Companys internal Mdori and become Chairman of the audit function: assessment and Audit Committee in June 2012. monitoring and reviewing the objectivity reporting of risks.
and independence of the external The Board confirms that each member of Auditors taking into consideration the the Committee is independent and that the scope of their work and fees paid for membership meets the requirements of the both audit and non-audit services: Code.
The Board also confirms that I have monitoring and reviewing the significant recent and relevant financial experience risks identified by each business unit as as required by the Code.
Each of the other well as the mitigating action against non-Executive Directors on the Committee those risks: has, through their other business activities, monitoring and reviewing the significant experience in financial matters arrangements by which employees can see biographies on pages 62 and 63. in confidence raise concerns about any possible improprieties in financial and The Assistant Company Secretary is other matters: and Secretary to the Audit Committee.
reviewing the significant financial The Finance Director, Head of Group reporting issues and judgements.
Audit and the external Auditors attend and report at Audit Committee meetings.
Activities in 2012 13 The Company Chairman regularly The Audit Committee had three meetings attends Audit Committee meetings.
The key activities during the Senior management including the year are set out below: Director of Treasury and Operational Finance, Group Financial Controller and Financial statements Managing Director, Energy Portfolio The Committee reviewed: Management, are regularly invited to present reports.
the financial statements in the 2012 Annual Report and accounts and the During the year, the Committee met interim results.
As part of this review the privately with the external Auditors, and Committee received from the external separately with the Head of Group Audit.
Auditors reports on their audit of the As Audit Committee Chairman, I report Annual Report and accounts and their the outcome of Committee meetings review of the interim results: to the Board.
the impairment of assets and related accounting matters: and Role the annual and interim results The Audit Committee assists the Board in announcements.
the effective discharge of its responsibilities for financial reporting and internal control, Control environment and together with the procedures for the risk management identification, assessment and reporting The Committee reviewed: of risks.
The Committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and six-monthly reports by Group Audit information as well as to management setting out progress against the Internal and the external Auditors.
The Audit Audit Plan, the results of key audits and Committees remit, which is set out other significant findings, the adequacy in its terms of reference includes of managements response and the Richard Gillingwater responsibility for: timeliness of resolution of actions: 82 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
The Audit Committee considers that the As part of the Board evaluation process, the operation of relationship with the Auditors is working the Audit Committee was evaluated, and it was confirmed well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness, expertise and independence.
that the Committee was operating effectively.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to require the firm to re-tender for the audit work.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external Auditor.
The external Auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead the Internal Audit Plan for the year recommendations made partner has been in place for four years.
ending 31 March 2014 and agreed it: by the external Auditors and the six-monthly reports from Treasury setting adequacy of managements response.
KPMG Audit Plc has informed the company out strategy, market developments, any that they have initiated a process to significant risks and the controls in place Independence of Auditors streamline their two registered audit firms to mitigate these risks: The Committee reviewed: KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG LLP.
As such, six-monthly reports from Energy KPMG Audit Plc have notified the company Portfolio Management setting out changes in the Audit team: and that they are not seeking re-appointment.
strategy, market and financial regulation the extent of non-audit services provided Consequently, the Audit Committee developments, any significant risks by the Auditors in accordance with the has recommended, and the Board has and the controls in place to mitigate established policy where: approved, the resolutions to appoint KPMG these risks: a competitive tender process is LLP as Auditor of the Company and its six-monthly reviews from Group Audit required where non-audit fees subsidiaries, and to authorise the Directors on the Internal Control Risk Assessment exceed a threshold of 30,000 for to fix their remuneration, which will be setting out the Group Risk Map and general advice and 75,000 for proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Residual Risk Map: tax-related advice: reports on unbilled energy debtors, aged the Committee would be satisfied Evaluation energy debt and bad energy debt: that the work was best handled by As part of the Board evaluation process, a post-investment appraisal report on the external Auditors because of the operation of the Audit Committee was a Networks project: their knowledge of the Group: and evaluated, and it was confirmed that the reports under the Group Whistleblowing the Committee must be satisfied that Committee was operating effectively.
Policy and reviewed the implementation the objectivity and independence of of this policy: and the external Auditors would not be Richard Gillingwater a report on governance developments affected by the work.
Chairman relating to audit committees.
The Audit Committee continued to monitor External audit process the level of non-audit work undertaken by The Committee reviewed: the Auditors.
The non-audit work awarded during the year included: the effectiveness of the overall audit process for 2011 12, taxation advice including general meeting with the external Auditors consultancy, acquisitions and disposals: and management separately and to identify any areas of concern advice relating to landfill tax in the preparation of the financial compliances.
statements: the independence and objectivity Full disclosure of the audit and non-audit of the external Auditors and agreed fees paid during the year is made in Note 5 their terms of appointment, areas to the Financial Statements.
of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as set out External Auditor in the engagement letter for the Following a competitive tender, KPMG forthcoming year: Audit Plc has been the external Auditor of and agreed the audit fees, fees for the enlarged Group since 1999.
Under its non-recurring work and the regulatory terms of reference, the Audit Committee reporting fee: has responsibility for recommending to the internal control and key accounting and Board the appointment, re-appointment audit issues: and and removal of the external Auditors.
