Governance Board of Directors Lord Smith of Kelvin Ian Marchant Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Chairman Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Finance Director UK UK UK UK Nationality Non-Executive Director since Appointed Finance Director Appointed Energy Supply Appointed Finance Director Date of appointment June 2003.
Chief Executive since Director in 2002.
Ian is stepping and Supply Director since down from the Board on December 2010.
Alistair will become Chief Executive on 1 July 2013.
Chairman of the Nomination Member of the Nomination Committee Committee: Member of the Committee.
Lord Smith has held a Ian joined Southern Electric Alistair has over 16 years Gregor has over 22 years Background number of senior positions in plc in 1992 and was appointed service with the Group, having service with the Group, having a range of financial services Finance Director of that board joined Southern Electric plc joined Scottish Hydro-Electric organisations, including in 1996. in 1997. plc in 1990.
Morgan Grenfell Private He is a chartered accountant.
Previously he worked for HSBC He is a chartered accountant.
Equity, Morgan Grenfell Asset and the National Westminster Gregor currently has SSE Management and Deutsche Bank in corporate finance and Board-level responsibility for Asset Management.
Finance, Human Resources, He is a chartered accountant IT, Procurement and other Alistair currently has SSE and a past president of Group Services.
Board-level responsibility the Institute of Chartered for Generation, Energy He is the sponsoring Board Accountants of Scotland.
Portfolio Management, member for SSEs businesses He was a member of the Retail, Renewables and in Ireland and Chairman Judicial Appointments Board Energy Demand.
of 50%-owned Scotia Gas for Scotland and former Networks Ltd.
Chairman of the trustees of the National Museums of Scotland.
Chairman of: The Weir Group Chairman of the Scotland Director of Energy UK.
Non-Executive Director Key appointments plc: UK Green Investment 2020 Delivery Group.
of Stagecoach Group plc Bank plc: Glasgow 2014 from April 2013.
Senior Independent Director Limited, the organising of John Wood Group plc.
committee for the Non-Executive Director of Commonwealth Games.
Non-Executive Director of Standard Bank Group Ltd in South Africa.
Richard Gillingwater CBE Lady Rice CBE Thomas Thune Andersen Jeremy Beeton Katie Bickerstaffe Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director UK USA and UK Denmark UK UK Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director since May 2007.
Director from July 2007 to July 2012.
Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Safety, Member of Audit, Nomination Member of the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Health and Environment and Safety, Health and and Remuneration of the Nomination and Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit and Committees.
Richard was, most recently, As Chairman and Chief Thomas spent 32 years at Jeremy was the Director From 2008 to 2012, she served Dean of Cass Business School, Executive of Lloyds TSB the A. P. Mller-Mrsk Group General of the UK Government as Director of Marketing, London.
Prior to this he spent Scotland plc, Susan was with an international career Olympic Executive, the People and Property.
10 years at Kleinwort Benson, the first woman to head ending as CEO and President lead government body Previously Katie was Managing before moving to BZW, in due a UK clearing bank.
of Mrsks oil and gas for coordinating the 2012 Director of Kwik Save Ltd course, becoming joint Head company.
He also served London Olympics.
Previously she worked and Group Retail Director of Corporate Finance and, on Mrsks Board and its for Bank of Scotland and Previously Jeremy was and Group HR Director at latterly, Chairman of European Executive Committee from Natwest Bancorp in New York.
Principal Vice President Somerfield plc.
Investment Banking at Credit 2005 to 2009.
Previously he In her earlier career, she was of Bechtel Ltd, where he Her earlier career included Suisse First Boston.
He has worked for Mrsk in the a Dean at Yale and Colgate had responsibility for the roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc previously served as Chief Far East, USA and the UK.
management and delivery and Unilever PLC.
Executive then Chairman of the of Bechtels civil engineering Susan is a Chartered Banker.
He has projects in infrastructure and been a non-Executive director aviation business lines.
of P&O, Debenhams, Tomkins, Jeremy is a civil engineer.
Chairman of Henderson Managing Director, Lloyds Chairman of the Lloyds Member of the Court of Katie is currently Chief Group plc.
Register Group and Chairman Strathclyde University.
Executive, UK and Ireland of the Board of Trustees for Dixons Retail plc.
Non-Executive Director of Wm Non-Executive Director on Sits on the advisory boards the Lloyds Foundation.
the Court of Bank of England, of PwC and Macquarie, where and chair of its audit and risk Chairman of DeepOcean he is also a consultant.
Chairman of the CDC Group.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Director of J Sainsbury plc of Hiscox Ltd and Helical Vice Chairman of VKR Holding.
Non-Executive Director of Big Society Capital Ltd and Trustee of the British Council Petrofac Ltd. Scotlands Futures Forum.
and a member of the advisory Member of Scotlands First boards of TheCityUK and of Ministers Council of Economic the Association of Corporate Advisers and President of Treasurers.
the Scottish Council for Development and Industry.
Chairman of the Edinburgh International Book Festival and Edinburgh Festivals Forum.
