Governance Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Members and meetings reviewing the external commitments of the Directors and the time required to Committees role is to Membership Attended scheduled discharge their responsibilities effectively.
review the leadership Lord Smith of Kelvin 4 4 Before a Board appointment is made, needs of the Board and Thomas Thune Andersen 4 4 the Committee evaluates the skills, senior management, Jeremy Beeton 4 4 knowledge and experience of the with a view to ensuring Board to ensure that any new Katie Bickerstaffe 4 4 appointment complements these SSEs continued ability Richard Gillingwater 4 4 qualities.
Candidates from a wide range to compete effectively Ian Marchant 4 4 of backgrounds are considered and in the marketplace.
appointments are made on merit, with Lady Rice 4 4 due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The selection I chair the Nomination Committee.
process generally involves interviews with The membership also includes all of a number of candidates, using the services the non-Executive Directors and the of a professional search firm specialising Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary is in Board level recruitment.
Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The Committee also reviews succession As Company Chairman, I would not planning and leadership needs in the course chair the meeting if it was dealing with of its work taking into account the risks any matter concerning the chairmanship and opportunities facing the Company, of the Board.
In this case the meeting and from this identifies the skills and would be chaired by a non-Executive expertise required from the Board and Director elected by the remaining senior management team.
Members of the Committee do not take part in discussions when their Activities in 2012 13 own performance or when their continued The Nomination Committee had four appointment is being considered.
The business covered at the meetings included Role the following: The Nomination Committees role is to review the leadership needs of the a review of any declared conflicts Board and senior management, with a of interests of the Directors: view to ensuring SSEs continued ability the reappointment of Richard to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Gillingwater as a non-Executive Director The Nomination Committees remit, for a further three year period: which is set out in its terms of reference, the independence of Lady Rice as includes responsibility for: a member and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee given reviewing the structure, size her length of service: and composition of the Board succession planning of the Board and its Committees and making including the process for identifying the recommendations to the Board criteria for a new Chief Executive and the on any desired changes: recommendation for the appointment reviewing the succession plans for the of Alistair Phillips-Davies to that role: and Executive Directors: the instruction of a search for a new making recommendations to the non-Executive Director as part of the Board on suitable candidates to fill ongoing review of succession and vacancies for both non-Executive refreshment of the Board.
and Executive Directors: ensuring that the procedure The recommendation to reappoint Richard for appointing new Directors is Gillingwater was following a rigorous rigorous and transparent and that review of his continuing independence.
appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria, Lady Rices continuing independence was including independence and considered carefully by the Committee diversity of candidates: taking account of the fact she has been Lord Smith of Kelvin reviewing potential conflicts on the Board since 2003.
The Committees of interest of Directors: and clear view was that she remained 80 SSE plc Annual Report 2013 1.
The Committee also reviews succession planning and leadership needs in the course of its work taking into account the risks and opportunities facing the Company, and from this identifies the skills and expertise required from the Board and senior management team.
independent, she provides robust challenge, clear ability to learn from experience and her knowledge and experience as and to deliver change where needed a Remuneration Committee member is to meet the requirements of SSEs invaluable in a period of change of Executive stakeholders, especially customers: Directors roles and responsibilities, and a successful experience of carrying period of significant developments and in out a leadership role in a FTSE 100 the governance and reporting requirements company and an appreciation of the of remuneration matters.
She has agreed to accountability that goes with leading remain on the Board for one more year and a major UK-listed company: and intends to stand down in 2014. commitment to the dividend as the best means of remunerating shareholders for The Committee has undertaken a their investment.
search for a new non-Executive Director as part of the Board refreshment process.
It was the unanimous recommendation The specification for the proposed of the Committee that Alistair Phillipsrecruitment of a new non-Executive Davies be appointed as Chief Executive Director set out certain essential in succession to Ian Marchant.
The Boards policy on at this recommendation, the Committee diversity and progress on implementation considered the above criteria, the scale is explained in detail on page 71 of and profile of the post, and the fit with the the Corporate Governance report.
culture and leadership style of SSE.
Odgers Berndtson were appointed by the Committee to carry out the search Evaluation for a new non-Executive Director.
The As part of the Board evaluation process, the Committee was satisfied that Odgers operation of the Nomination Committee Berndtson had no other connections was evaluated and it was confirmed that with the Company which would give the Committee was operating effectively.
rise to a conflict of interest.
Lord Smith of Kelvin The process for Chief Executive succession Chairman involved the appointment of Sam Allen Associates to carry out an analysis of the role, development of a profile, and a benchmarking review of potential candidates, including external candidates.
The Committee was satisfied that Sam Allen Associates had no other connection with the Company that would give rise to a conflict of interest.
In considering who should succeed Ian Marchant, the Board set clear criteria.
SSEs Chief Executive should have: detailed understanding of the energy markets in Great Britain and Ireland and of the increasingly global context in which they operate: 81
