Governance How the Board works The UK Corporate Governance Code It was most recently reviewed The Executive Directors have specific This report explains how the Company at the Board meeting in March 2013. executive responsibilities.
As Board members applies the main principles of The UK their duties also extend to the whole of the Corporate Governance Code the Code The Board also has overall responsibility Groups operations and activities and are issued by the Financial Reporting Council for risk management, which is reported not limited to their specific executive roles.
in June 2010 available on the FRC website.
The Board confirms that the Company Executive Directors other directorships has, throughout the period under review, The roles of Chairman Executive Directors may be invited to complied with all provisions set out in and Chief Executive become non-Executive Directors of other the Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive companies.
Approval may be given to accept are separate and clearly defined.
They such invitations recognising the benefit to Leadership were most recently reviewed at the Board the individual and to the Company.
Any meeting in March 2013. such appointments are included in the The role of the Board biographical information set out on page The Board is collectively responsible The Chairman 62 and any fees earned during the year to the Companys shareholders for The Board is chaired by Lord Smith of are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
the long term success of the Group Kelvin.
The Chairman is responsible for and for its overall strategic direction, the operation, leadership and governance The role of the non-Executive Directors its values and its governance.
It provides of the Board ensuring that it operates The non-Executive Directors are chosen the leadership necessary for the Group effectively while providing appropriate for their diversity of skills and experience.
to meet its business objectives whilst challenge and debate.
He ensures Each non-Executive Director is appointed ensuring that a sound system of constructive relations exist between the for a fixed term of three years subject to internal control and risk management Executive and non-Executive Directors.
He identifies individual Director training term may then be renewed by mutual needs and oversees the performance agreement.
The non-Executive Directors The powers and duties of the Directors evaluation.
The Chairman meets with appointment letters are available on the are determined by legislation and by shareholders, analysts and other SSE website.
the Companys Articles of Association, representatives of institutional investors, which are available on the SSE website.
and participates in both the interim The non-Executive Directors: scrutinise, and annual results presentations measure and review the performance of A formal schedule of matters is specifically and the AGM.
management: constructively challenge reserved to the Board for its decision, and assist in the development of strategy: including: The Chairman regularly meets with review the Group financial information managers and employees at various and ensure systems of internal control Group strategy: locations throughout the Group.
and risk management are appropriate annual budget: and effective: through the Audit approval of interim and final The Chief Executive Committee, review the relationship financial statements: Ian Marchant is the Chief Executive, with the external Auditor: through the interim dividend payments and leads the other Executive Directors, Remuneration Committee, review the and recommendation of final the Managing Directors and the remuneration of the Executive Directors dividends: management team in the day-to-day and senior management: and through significant changes in accounting running and operations of the Group.
He is the Nomination Committee review, policy and practice: responsible for implementing the strategy the succession planning for the Board.
the Groups corporate governance and policy set by the Board.
He represents and system of internal control: the Company to external stakeholders, The Chairman and non-Executive Directors Board and Committee membership: including shareholders, customers, met twice during the year without the major acquisitions, mergers, disposals suppliers, regulatory and government Executive Directors being present.
and capital expenditure: authorities, and the community.
changes in the capital and structure Role of the Senior Independent Director of the Group: In discharging his responsibilities, the Richard Gillingwater is the Senior significant changes in consumer Chief Executive is advised and assisted by Independent Director.
He acts as a prices: the Management Board and its Committees sounding board for the Chairman, and approval of key policies such as safety, which oversee the operational and financial serves as intermediary to other Directors health and environment: and performance of, and issues facing, the when necessary.
He carried out the regulatory matters including approval Company.
The Management Board and Chairmans performance evaluation, of Price Control Reviews proposed its role is explained on pages 64 and 65. together with the other non-Executive by Ofgem.
Directors and with input from the Executive The role of the Executive Directors Directors.
He also undertook meetings The Schedule of Reserved Matters The biographical details of the Executive with investors and management visits is reviewed regularly by the Board Directors and details of their relevant during the year.
His other responsibilities and is published on the SSE website.
experience, are set out on page 62. include being available to shareholders 69 Governance How the Board works continued if they have any concerns which contact Attendance at Board meetings on the SSE website.
Membership through the normal channels of Chairman, The table below sets out the attendance is determined by the Board on the Chief Executive or Finance Director has of the Directors at the scheduled Board recommendation of the Nomination failed to resolve or for which contact is meetings during 2012 13.
In addition to Committee and in consultation with inappropriate.
these and the other meetings described each Committee chairman.
Minutes of above, the Chairman and non-Executive Board Committee meetings are included The role of the Company Secretary Directors undertake site visits and other on the agenda of the next Board meeting The Company Secretary reports to meetings related to the Company.
the Chairman on board governance Attended scheduled matters.
He is responsible to the Board The relationship between the Board, its for compliance with Board procedures Committees and the management of Lord Smith of Kelvin 6 6 and, through the Chairman, for advising the Company is summarised in the chart Gregor Alexander 6 6 and keeping the Board up to date on all below.
The Board Committee reports are Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 corporate governance developments.
He facilitates the Directors induction Jeremy Beeton 6 6 programme and assists with professional The Management Board Katie Bickerstaffe 6 6 development as required.
The advice, The Management Board is responsible services and support of the Company Richard Gillingwater 6 6 for implementing policy and strategy Secretary are available to all Directors.
set by the Board and for the operational Ian Marchant 6 6 management of all SSEs businesses.
Ren Mdori 1 1 Board and Committee meetings The Management Board comprises three The Board has six scheduled Board meetings Executive Directors and eight Managing Alistair Phillips-Davies 6 6 each year.
These start with an evening Directors representing the key areas Lady Rice 6 6 meeting when the Board is often given a of the business.
The Chief Executive presentation by senior management on a Ren Mdori retired from the Board on 25 June 2012. of SGN also attends meetings of the particular topic.
Occasionally the evening Management Board.
The Management meeting is used to meet with external Board Committees Board meets monthly and the minutes stakeholders.
The Board meeting then There are four standing committees of the meeting are provided to the continues the following day and is routinely of the Board.
The terms of reference of Board for information.
There are followed by a meeting of one of the Board these committees are set by the Board, five standing committees of the Committees such as the Remuneration are reviewed regularly, and are available Management Board.
Committee or the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee.
In addition to the scheduled meetings the Board has an update conference call which is held in the month between the biGovernance structure monthly scheduled Board meetings.
These calls usually last for around one hour and are used to update the Board on business Board of Directors performance and to brief the Board on any current issues.
A Board decision or approval may be required at the update conference call if the matter cannot wait until the following scheduled Board meeting.
In these Safety, Health Audit Nomination Remuneration and Environment circumstances the decision of the Board is Committee Committee Committee Advisory Committee recorded by written resolution or minute.
There is normally full attendance at Chief Executive Board and Committee meetings, although occasionally there may be non-attendance due to unforeseen circumstances or prior commitments which could not be Management Board rearranged.
If unable to attend a meeting, the Director will provide comments and feedback to the Chairman, Committee Chairman or Company Secretary who ensures that the comments received are Major Projects Safety, Health Business Disclosure and Risk and Trading Standards raised at the meeting.
Members of the and Environment Development Governance Committee and Delivery Committee Committee Committee Management Board are invited to attend Committee Board meetings on a rotational basis.
Lady Rices service with the Board diversity, by age Company enables her to provide an effective The composition of the Board and vigorous challenge to management 45-54 years old 4 The composition of the Board and its because of her extensive knowledge of 55-64 years old 3 Committees is regularly reviewed to the Companys business.
Her experience 65-70 years old 2 ensure that the balance and mix of skills, and expertise in Remuneration matters knowledge and experience is maintained.
is important in this period of scrutiny of Executive remuneration, change in reporting On 25 June 2012 Ren Mdori resigned requirements, and change in Executive from the Board.
On 24 July 2012 Richard roles within the Company.
She is a valuable Gillingwater took over the role of Senior member of the Board, and contributes Independent Director from Lady Rice.
significantly to the Boards deliberations.
Alistair Phillips-Davies, currently Deputy The Board is currently undertaking a search Board diversity, by gender Chief Executive, will become Chief Executive for a new non-Executive Director as part on 1 July 2013 in succession to Ian Marchant of its refreshment programme, and Lady Male 7 who is stepping down after over 10 years in Rice intends to step down from the Board Female 2 the role.
Gregor Alexander, Finance Director during 2014. will have an expanded role in supporting the Chief Executive in the running of the Boardroom diversity operations of the group.
The Davies Report, Women on Boards, published in March 2012 contained a review Following these changes, the Board will on the progress made by FTSE Company comprise the Chairman, two Executive Boards in relation to gender diversity.
Directors and five independent nonThe recommendation of the Davies Report Executive Directors.
This gives the Board is that FTSE 100 Boards should aim for a Board diversity, by sector a good balance of independence and minimum of 25% female representation experience, ensuring that no one individual by 2015.
Female representation on the Corporate finance 2 or group of individuals has undue influence SSE board is currently 22% and when Major projects 1 over the Boards decision-making.
Ian Marchant steps down from the Board Retail 1 on 30 June 2013 female representation Natural resources 1 Succession planning on the Board will be 25%.
The Company Banking 1 The Nomination Committee report sets out is committed to the approach on Utilities 3 the process carried out during the year to diversity set out in the Davies Review, verify the continuing independence of the and will continue to take diversity non-Executive Directors and succession matters into account for future Board plans for the Board.
The succession plans appointments whilst appointing on for management positions are reviewed merit.
The Boards statement on diversity Board diversity, by nationality each year by the Executive Directors to is set out on the Companys website, ensure management roles are refreshed and is as follows: USA UK 1 with the best candidates, taking account Denmark 1 of a range of factors such as background, The Board comprises three Executive UK 7 experience, qualifications and gender.
The Directors and five non-Executive Directors process also identifies the high potential plus the Chairman.
Female representation individuals and their development needs.
The Davies Review into Women on Boards recommended FTSE 100 Board balance Boards should aim for a minimum of The Board considers that the Chairman 25% of female representation by 2015. was independent on appointment and all SSE endorses this recommendation and non-Executive Directors are independent we expect to be at least broadly compliant for the purposes of the Code.
We will continue to appoint takes into account the need for progressive independent and objective judgement of Executive and non-Executive Directors refreshing of the Board.
the non-Executive Directors was confirmed to ensure diversity of background and on as part of the annual Board performance the basis of their skills and experience.
Director induction, training evaluation process.
and development Terms of Appointment of the Meetings, briefings and site visits were Lady Rice has served on the Board since July non-Executive Directors arranged for the non-Executive Directors 2003.
The Board recognises and understands The non-Executive Directors are during the year.
The briefings covered investor concerns over long-serving nonappointed for specified terms subject subjects such as operational activities and Executive Directors and has considered the to annual re-election.
Any term beyond major projects, and the visits included major length of service of Lady Rice, and continues six years for a non-Executive Director is project sites, power stations, customer to view her as independent in character subject to particularly rigorous review and service centres, and gas storage facilities.
71 Governance How the Board works continued On joining the Board, Directors receive a is required where the cost of such advice and as such all Directors other than Ian comprehensive induction course tailored to is likely to exceed 10,000.
Any advice Marchant who is stepping down from their individual requirements which includes obtained shall be made available to the the Board on 30 June 2013 will stand for meetings with the Executive Directors and other members of the Board, if the Board re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Biographical senior management, visits to key sites, and so requests.
This procedure was not required details for all the Directors are set out on meetings with key stakeholders.
It also to be used during the year.
pages 62 and 63. covers a review of the Groups governance, policies, structure and business including Evaluation of the Board, Committees Indemnification of Directors details of the risks and operational issues and Directors and insurance facing SSE.
The Board, its Committees and the individual The Directors have the benefit of the Directors participate in an annual evaluation indemnity provision contained in the As part of the annual Board evaluation of performance.
They process the training and development also have been granted a qualifying third needs of individual Directors are reviewed An externally facilitated evaluation process, party indemnity provision which was by the Chairman.
The Company makes the every three years is recommended by in force throughout the financial year necessary resources available should any the Code, and the Board and Committee and remains in force.
The Company also Director require training.
evaluation process this year was purchased and maintained throughout facilitated by PwC.
The evaluation took the financial year Directors and Officers The Company operates performance the form of individual meetings with liability insurance in respect of itself and coaching for some of the Executive each of the Directors and members of for its Directors and Officers.
Directors and for other members of the Management Board.
The outcome senior management which is designed of the evaluation process was considered Directors conflicts of interest to develop and enhance individual and at the Board meeting held in January During the year a review of the Directors Company performance.
The outcome was positive, interests and appointments was carried however there were recommendations out by the Company Secretary and a report Information and briefings for further consideration.
These included was provided to the Nomination Committee The Directors receive detailed financial and increasing the profile of the Board within for review and recommendation to the operational information to allow them to SSE, more training and briefings for the Board.
The full Board then considered monitor effectively the performance of the non-Executive Directors in certain areas, and authorised each Directors reported business.
Board and Committee papers are specific development plans for each actual or potential conflicts of interest issued for review in advance of meetings.
Boardmember, and reviewing the at the Board meeting in January 2013.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive process for identifying significant In accordance with the Companys Articles presents an update report on any major future adverse events.
of Association and relevant legislation, current matters from the Groups business: each Director abstained from approval the Finance Director presents a report PwC provide ad hoc professional services of their own position.
The Board continues on financial performance and the Board to the SSE Group, such as tax, systems and to monitor and review potential conflicts receives a detailed business report from general financial consultancy.
Given the of interest on a regular basis.
The Board also level and nature of work carried out, there receives regular updates on the progress was not considered to be any potential Accountability and performance of investments, and a conflict of interest in carrying out the detailed key performance indicator report.
Financial and business reporting In its reporting to shareholders, the During the year, the Board and The Directors also participated in detailed Board recognises its responsibility to Committees were kept up to date with reviews of individual performance which present a balanced and understandable developments through a programme of were carried out in separate meetings with assessment of the groups position and briefings by Executive Directors and senior the Chairman.
The process for evaluating prospects.
This responsibility covers the management on the full range of business the Chairman was managed by the Senior Annual Report and Accounts and extends areas.
Specialist briefings and presentations Independent Director which involved a to interim and other price sensitive public were given on areas such as corporate separate meeting with the non-Executive announcements and reports to regulators governance, regulatory development, risk, Directors and included feedback from the as well as to information required to be strategy, energy trading, health and safety, Executive Directors.
The major projects, and SSEs major business Business Review on pages 1 to 102 sets activities generally.
Separate more informal The Board evaluation process also out explanations of the basis on which meetings were also held between individual confirmed that the performance of the Company generates or preserves Directors and senior management.
the Directors continues to be effective value over the longer term and the and that they continue to demonstrate strategy for delivering the objectives of the Independent professional advice commitment in their respective roles.
This Annual Report is intended There is an agreed procedure for Directors to provide the information necessary to to be able to take independent professional Annual re-election of Directors enable an assessment of the companys advice, if necessary, at the Companys The Board has agreed that each Director performance, the business model and expense.
The prior approval of the Chairman shall be subject to annual re-election its strategy.
The Audit Committee to time to gain a first-hand understanding public policy goal at present is to ensure The Audit Committee Report, which of key issues.
that there is in place a framework to enable describes the work of the Audit Committee it to invest in secure and lower-carbon in discharging its responsibilities, is set out Richard Gillingwater, the Senior Independent supplies of energy in the UK and Ireland.
Director, is available to shareholders if they In pursuing public policy goals, SSE always have concerns that contact through the aims to deploy evidence and arguments Relations with shareholders normal channels has either failed to resolve that are consistent with its purpose, values and major stakeholders or is deemed inappropriate.
Together with and strategy as outlined in this Report the Chairman he had separate meetings and to do so in a way that is appropriate Disclosure and Governance Committee with some institutional shareholders.
The Disclosure and Governance Committee A range of topics were covered at the is a Committee of the Management shareholder meetings including the plans Communications with investors Board.
It is responsible for overseeing the for continued refreshment of the Board.
SSEs website contains up-to-date Companys framework for the identification, information for shareholders and other release and control of announcements and Communications with other stakeholders interested parties including share price other information of interest to shareholders The Directors have a programme of information, announcements and news and the investment community as well as events to meet with a range of external releases, investor and analyst presentations, maintaining high standards of corporate stakeholders representing the public sector, and a section containing information on governance.
The Committee assists in investment community, environmental shareholder services.
The Companys Annual developing the investor relations strategy affairs, and consumer interests.
The Report and other shareholder circulars are and reviews and implements governance purpose of these events is to discuss the also published on the SSE website.
The Committee comprises: Companys position on a range of business, the Chief Executive: Finance Director: policy and public interest issues and to Shareholders have a choice of how to receive Company Secretary: Managing Director, learn more about stakeholders views, their Company communications such as the Corporate Affairs: Head of Investor Relations hear their suggestions and address any Annual Report.
The Company recognises and Analysis: and the Assistant Company areas of concern.
the benefit of electronic communications Secretary.
The Committee meets as required and encourages shareholders to receive and had six meetings in the year.
More generally, working with public policy electronic communication.
In recognition makers is a vital area for the Company, of the reduced cost and environmental Dialogue with shareholders given the high profile of energy and impact of this form of communication, The Company continued to maintain an environment related issues in the UK the Company, on behalf of shareholders, effective dialogue with shareholders, based and elsewhere.
The Company engages makes a donation to WWFs International on a mutual understanding of objectives.
with stakeholders in several ways: Forest Programme for every shareholder The Board believes that this is fundamental that elects for email communication or to ensuring that the Companys strategy constructive engagement where receives Company documentation via the is understood and that any questions or appropriate with Ofgem, which is SSE website.
issues are dealt with in a constructive way.
responsible for promoting competition, and regulating the regional monopoly Annual General Meeting 2013 The Company maintains regular contact companies which run the gas and The 24th AGM of the Company will be held with institutional shareholders, fund electricity networks: on 25 July 2013 at 12 noon at the Perth managers and analysts through a ongoing dialogue with Ministers Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ.
programme of dialogue, meetings, and officials in the UK and Irish The Notice of Annual General Meeting presentations, events and site visits governments, and in the devolved 2013, which contains full explanations of led by the Chief Executive and Finance administrations in the UK: the business to be conducted at the AGM, Director.
The Head of Investor Relations submissions to government and is set out in a separate shareholder circular.
and Analysis has day-to-day responsibility Parliamentary consultations and for communications with institutional inquiries: The AGM provides an opportunity for the shareholders.
Brokers reports and analysts meetings with, and briefings of, elected Board to meet with shareholders and briefings are distributed to the Directors.
members of all parties in legislatures: provide an update on the performance and The Board receives regular reports on engagement with local authority plans of the Company.
Shareholders are the various issues raised by institutional elected members and officials: invited to ask questions at the AGM and to shareholders, fund managers and analysts active participation in relevant trade meet the Directors and senior managers.
which allow the Directors to form a view associations and bodies: and of the priorities and concerns of the discussions with non-governmental Companys stakeholders.
organisations and other relevant organisations such as charities.
The Chairman participated in the Companys results presentations in May The Companys objective is to ensure 2012 and November 2012.
The Chairman that it is able to perform its core purpose meets major institutional shareholders and of providing the energy people need in a institutional shareholder bodies from time reliable and sustainable way.
