Corporate governance report of the Groups business and reports to the Chairman and to the Board directly.
5.1 Introduction All other members of the executive management team report either directly The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups or indirectly to the Chief Executive.
activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance Garry Watts remains the Groups Senior Independent Director and is available practices within the Group.
This section of the report sets out Stagecoach to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the Chairman, Groups corporate governance arrangements.
It also includes the disclosures Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such recommended by the Financial Reporting Council FRC UK Corporate contact is inappropriate.
Governance Code the Code, and describes how the principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the Code have been applied.
In line The composition of the Board is as follows: with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of the Audit Date of Independent Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and Environmental appointment Nonif later than Executive Other Committee and Remuneration Committee.
1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director The Stagecoach Board is committed to maintaining a corporate governance structure appropriate to the Group and its strategy.
Good corporate Sir Brian Souter governance remains central to delivering the Groups objectives.
As explained Chairman later in this report, we have again reviewed the effectiveness of the Board and Gregor Alexander its Committees and we consider the corporate governance structure to Non-Executive Director remain appropriate for the Group.
Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director 5.2 Compliance with the Code Helen Mahy The Code issued in June 2010 applied to the Companys financial year from Non-Executive Director 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2013.
The June 2010 Code is available on the FRCs Garry Watts website at https: www.
uk getattachment b0832de2-5c94-48c0- Senior Independent Director & b771-ebb249fe1fec .
The Directors Deputy Chairman believe that throughout the year ended 30 April 2013 the Group complied Phil White with all of the recommendations of the June 2010 Code.
The Group also Non-Executive Director complies with the corporate governance requirements of the Financial Will Whitehorn Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Non-Executive Director In September 2012, the FRC issued revisions to the Code.
The revised Code Ann Gloag will replace the June 2010 edition and is available on the FRCs website at Non-Executive Director http: www.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UKMartin Griffiths .
The September 2012 edition of the Code Chief Executive applies to the Companys financial year that began on 1 May 2013.
Where Ross Paterson appropriate, this report sets out changes made to comply with the September Finance Director 2012 Code.
The Code suggests that independent non-executive directors should make up 5.3 Composition of the Board at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout the period The following Board changes took effect from 1 May 2013.
Sir George from 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2013, the Board considers that it complied with Mathewson retired as Chairman of the Group and Sir Brian Souter, former this Code requirement.
The current position, shown in the above table, is that Chief Executive, was appointed Chairman of the Group from that date.
Martin two thirds of the Board members excluding the Chairman are independent.
Griffiths, former Finance Director, became the Groups Chief Executive and In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board Ross Paterson, former Company Secretary and Director of Finance, was considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the appointed to the Board as Finance Director.
following questions: In order to further strengthen the Groups corporate governance Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive arrangements, Garry Watts, the Senior Independent Director, has been management?
Gregor Alexander has been appointed as an Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and additional independent non-executive director of the Group and will take viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
over Garrys role as Audit Committee Chairman from 1 July 2013.
Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the The Board is aware of investor concerns regarding a former Chief Executive Board and its Committees?
becoming the Chairman of the Group and has taken steps to address these.
Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for The Board has appointed Garry Watts in the newly created role of Deputy the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans and Chief Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the Executives responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been approved Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy by the Board.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to the Board and executive managements running of the business?
and has responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance.
The Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration of matters is Ewan Brown, one of the six independent non-executive directors, has served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble Grossart, in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts of interest.
No which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
understands investor concerns over longer-serving non-executive directors The Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring that it is the Board that but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan determines the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Chief Browns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and Executive is responsible for proposing and developing that strategy with effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed support and guidance from the Chairman.
In this way, the Group is able to knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes draw upon the talent, knowledge and entrepreneurial skills of Sir Brian that Ewan Browns length of service, when taken in the context of the Board Souter, in his new role as Chairman, while maintaining a strong board, as a whole, enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he independent of executive management.
This also allows a continuation of remains independent in character and judgement.
Six of the nine members the succession planning, with the new Chief Executive having all executive of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the Board to be responsibility but with the ability to draw on Sir Brians experience in that role.
Even if Ewan Brown is not treated as independent, the balance In his role as Chairman, Sir Brian Souters key responsibility is the running of of executive and non-executive directors complies with the the Board.
The Chief Executive, Martin Griffiths, is responsible for the running recommendations of the Code.
page 32 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:03 Page 33 In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better independence, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Committee control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the All directors stand for election or re-election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any 5.4 Operation of the Board concerns leading to his or her resignation.
The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled 5.5 Operational management of the Group Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Chief Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact with Executive and Finance Director Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
With effect from 1 May The Directors biographies appear in section 3 of this Annual Report and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board 2013, the Managing Director of the Groups London Bus operations reports to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an directly to the Group Chief Executive.
Accordingly, there are four principal independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
operating divisions UK Bus London : headed by a Managing Director, UK Bus regional operations : headed by a Managing Director, North America: headed The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of by a Chief Operating Officer and UK Rail: headed by the Group Chief Executive experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business units, each decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the day-toperiodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
supported by his her own management teams.
Two of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail Group and Twin America LLC, are All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the managed independently of the Group.
Each is headed by its own Chief Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and Executive.
The Group has two representatives on the Board of Virgin Rail Group may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense and three representatives on the Board of Twin America LLC.
The other trading where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as joint venture in which the Group has an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal is a matter Limited, has a joint board.
The Group is responsible for the day-to-day for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board management of that business.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep 5.6 Performance evaluation abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews the Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Company The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, social and governance matters.
Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of the The number of full Board meetings during the year was 7.
The full Board performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Nontypically meets once a year at an operational location and regular Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and operational Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance issues.
In June 2012, the Group held a conference of senior management from each of its divisions and combined this with Board and Committee meetings in of the Board and other Board members this involves the completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior London.
This gave the Board members an opportunity to see the preparations then being made for the services that the Group provided to the London Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual Olympic and Paralympic games.
In April 2013, the Board met in Chicago and director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken visited the Groups operations in that area and met management from across to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
The June 2010 code, which applied to accounting periods commencing on or Some of the Directors also attended health and safety meetings of operating after 29 June 2010, introduced a recommendation that board performance companies during the year.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
visits operating locations around the Group to gain greater understanding of From the effective date of the Code, the Group plans to use external how the Group addresses health, safety and environmental matters.
facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every third The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with year.
principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are each committee of which he or she is a member.
The assessment of proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or effectiveness included consideration of: disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: considered during the year ended 30 April 2013 included: The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of Approval of the October 2012 private placement of US$150m loan notes the Group: Consideration of invitations to tender for rail franchises The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Safety processes at Megabus, North America Board and its committees: Review of the decision to award the West Coast rail franchise to First Group The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and Potential business acquisitions by the Groups UK Bus and North American divisions The composition of the Board and its committees.
Group-wide strategy and succession planning The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve and constructive manner.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 33 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 12:37 Page 34 Corporate governance report 5.7 Composition of Committees The composition of the various Board Committees is summarised below: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of members of Committee: 4 Number of members of Committee: 3 All members are independent non-executive directors.
All members are independent non-executive directors.
Chairman and designated member with recent Chairman and relevant financial experience Phil White Garry Watts Other members Other members Garry Watts Gregor Alexander Will Whitehorn Helen Mahy Phil White Gregor Alexander will take over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 July 2013.
Nomination Committee Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Number of members of Committee: 3 Number of members of Committee: 4 All members are independent non-executive directors.
Chairman Chairman Helen Mahy Garry Watts Chairman from 1 May 2013 Other members Other members Martin Griffiths Ewan Brown Ann Gloag Will Whitehorn Phil White 5.8 Reports from the Committees Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out on pages 37 to 51 of this Annual Report.
5.9 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2013: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Sir George Mathewson 6 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Sir Brian Souter 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 7 7 n a n a n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Gregor Alexander 1 1 1 1 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Ewan Brown 7 7 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Ann Gloag 7 7 n a n a n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Helen Mahy 7 7 2 3 n a n a 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Garry Watts 7 7 3 3 3 3 n a n a 1 1 1 1 Phil White 7 7 3 3 3 3 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Will Whitehorn 6 7 n a n a 2 3 n a n a 1 1 1 1 page 34 | Stagecoach Group plc 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:03 Page 35 responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these 5.10 Relations with shareholders processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division financial media.
The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and annual report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through of the Groups overall goals.
briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders recommended by the external auditors.
where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to resolve concerns.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business risk All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual General management processes through representation on the boards and in the case Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
Stagecoach management the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer representatives also meet regularly with representatives of joint ventures to questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for ensure that they follow appropriate risk management procedures.
shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose 5.12 Internal control a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
Resolutions are taken on a show of hands and details of all The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, proxy votes lodged for and against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of are given to the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on the the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during the Groups website at http: www.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: services agm.
The Company and its registrars have established procedures to an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
5.11 Risk management reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and section 2.3.
6. business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing competition policy.
and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach significant risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with representation on the boards of the entities together with regular contact appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and between Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential senior management based on agreed financial and other performance severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated by the Group.
significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a fourThe Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the weekly basis.
businesses for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2013 and up to the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, environment and such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that processes are in place to treasury management policies and procedures.
ensure that risks are appropriately managed.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate acquired or divested.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 35 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:03 Page 36 Corporate governance report each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures 5.14 Pension schemes appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate annually by the management of each business confirming that they have from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom year.
three are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and basis and two are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the which is subject to regular monitoring.
principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected monitoring.
representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and Scheme, of which he is the Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group identified in the year to 30 April 2013 have resulted in any material losses, and UK Bus executives.
contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Ewan Brown, and also 5.13 Process for preparing consolidated financial comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
statements The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, internal financial controls periodically.
risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
Management regularly monitors and considers developments in accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key By order of the Board finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such developments.
A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each Mike Vaux business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been Company Secretary reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that 26 June 2013 the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and obtains explanations for any material differences.
The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external auditors on significant judgements, changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to external audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
