Nomination Committee report a whole and at senior management level, which is currently defined as those 7.1 Composition of the Nomination who receive awards under the Groups 2005 Executive Participation Plan.
The Committee latest data showed the following: The membership of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section 5.7.
Population % male % female The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive Board 80.0% 20.0% Directors, as necessary.
Senior management 88.0% 12.0% Whole workforce 85.8% 14.2% 7.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, 7.4 Succession planning arrangements knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the description of the role and the required attributes for each particular longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
units, both in the UK and North America.
The appointments process takes account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender diversity and in identifying suitable candidates the The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate Committee will consider candidates from a range of backgrounds.
The succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination appointment of Ross Paterson to the Board and the appointment of Martin Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers Griffiths to the position of Chief Executive were considered and recommended to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without to the Board by the Committee taking account of the succession plans that significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The Committee had been developed over recent years.
believes that it is important to develop and promote existing talent from Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist within the organisation.
The Committee was pleased to be able to recommend compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates Martin Griffiths to succeed Sir Brian Souter as Chief Executive of the Company and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection and to retain Sir Brians knowledge and experience of the industry in the role of the directors appointed to the Board over the last two years were made of Chairman.
As part of the Committees succession plan, Ross Paterson was following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment identified from within the Groups existing management team as the preferred consultants and the consideration of a number of candidates.
The Company candidate to join the Board and succeed Martin Griffiths in the position of used Russell Reynolds Associates, an external search consultancy, in Finance Director.
connection with the recent appointment of Gregor Alexander to the Board.
Following the recent Board changes, the Committee is developing new There is no other connection between Russell Reynolds and the Company.
succession plans to anticipate future management changes.
Given the Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
No director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments about nom.
pdf Garry Watts Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7.3 Board diversity 26 June 2013 The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from comprising talented people with a range of perspectives and from differing backgrounds and the terms of reference of the Committee reflect this in the criteria for identifying suitable candidates for nomination to the Board.
The Committee notes that the Davies Review recommended that Chairmen of FTSE 350 companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to have on their boards by 2013 and 2015.
The Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a listed company it has had at least one woman on its Board and for more than the last ten years, at least two.
There are currently ten directors of the Company.
While the Board had nine members, the Board stated its aspiration to maintain the percentage of women on the Board at 22%.
By increasing the size of the Board to ten directors, the proportion of women has decreased from 22% to 20% of the Board..
The appointment of an additional director to the Board brings the benefit of an increased diversity of opinions and knowledge to the Board.
The percentage of women on the Board is now 20% and the Board aspires to maintain this percentage in the future.
In addition to board diversity, the Company believes in promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation.
Gender data has been collated across the Groups business for the workforce as Stagecoach Group plc | page 39
