Audit Committee report auditors independence and objectivity, taking into consideration relevant 6.1 Composition of the Audit Committee laws, regulations and professional requirements.
The assessment involves The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 5.7.
Garry considering all relationships between the Group and the auditors, including Watts is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered the nature and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from Accountant, a former audit partner, a former finance director and chief the auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, executive of FTSE 350 companies and is also a member of the audit employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that could committee of a large quoted NYSE listed company.
He is competent in both affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account of relevant accounting and auditing matters.
The designated Committee member with Ethical Standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit Committee their policies recent and relevant financial experience is therefore Garry Watts.
and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance As previously announced, Gregor Alexander will take over as Chairman of the with relevant requirements.
Gregor is the Finance Director of SSE plc, The latest version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code will be a FTSE 100 company.
He is a Chartered Accountant and will be the effective for the Groups year ending 30 April 2014 and thereafter.
The Code designated Committee member with recent and relevant financial recommends that FTSE 350 companies retender their audits at least every experience.
Phil White is a former finance director and former chief executive ten years.
of a FTSE 350 company and is also a Chartered Accountant.
Helen Mahy is a Barrister, an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute and was the The Group last tendered its audit in 2002 and appointed Company Secretary and General Counsel of a FTSE 100 company.
 PwC as auditors in place of Arthur Andersen.
Since 2002, PwCs effectiveness has been annually assessed by the Audit Committee, which has not considered it necessary to require the firm to 6.2 Operation of the Audit Committee tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years, retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee should attend its and the current audit partner took responsibility for the Group and subsidiary meetings but generally invites the following to attend: audits from the year ended 30 April 2012.
The Finance Director: The suggested transitional arrangements are that where a company has put The Group Financial Controller: its audit to tender or changed audit firm in or after 2000, the tender process The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: might be deferred for five years on expiry of the current audit engagement Representatives from the external auditors: partners tenure.
While that would allow the Group to defer tendering the audit until as late as 2021, the Group does intend to tender the audit earlier Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to present to the Committee at least annually.
Ongoing deliberations by other bodies such as the UKs Competition Commission and European Union might result in further requirements or Other directors are also welcome to attend meetings of the Committee and recommendations on audit rotation or tendering.
We therefore intend to do so from time to time.
await the results of these deliberations before making any firm decisions on The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the the timing of tendering the audit.
Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements external auditors.
and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
0.8m 2012: 0.8m for  LLP and non-audit related The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups fees of 0.1m 2012: 0.3m were discussed by the Audit Committee and website at considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments about  The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does Nov-2012.
pdf not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used 6.3 Review of external auditors where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the 6.4 Policy on the auditors providing external auditors.
non-audit services Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in place to Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups policies on nonGroup and the auditors.
This review includes: audit services are: the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval Audit related services These are services that the auditors must undertake of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: services include formalities relating to interim reporting, bank financing, the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which generally provide all such services.
have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each or offices of the same firm are involved: and specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis.
This assessment includes consideration of the work being undertaken.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 96142 STC Front PRINT 96142 STC Front V14 02 07 2013 11:03 Page 38 Audit Committee report General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an The appropriateness of liabilities held in respect of legal cases and in advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the particular, the amount, timing and classification of the legal costs expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general recognised in connection with the litigation relating to the Groups joint consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work venture, Twin America.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general The determination of acquisition-date fair values of assets and liabilities consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are relating to the acquisitions of businesses during the year and in particular, satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the the acquisition of businesses from Coach America in July 2012. audit teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be The Committee has considered a wide range of other matters at its three effectively mitigated.
meetings over the last year and received various reports and presentations as follows: 6.5 Review of Risk Assurance function The Committee has received several updates from Deloitte, which manages the outsourced Risk Assurance function.
Deloitte attended all The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on meetings of the Committee.
the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director on the Groups disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the tax affairs, significant tax accounting judgements and tax risks.
The Group Risk Assurance Function.
Treasury team presented on the Groups treasury affairs and management The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship of treasury risks.
between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a The Committee has considered and made changes to the Groups consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the announcements of its interim and preliminary financial results, as well as quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the its Annual Report.
The Committee also reviewed the evidence that context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
supported the conclusion that the Group remained a going concern.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the function on an annual basis.
Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates 6.6 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy on litigation involving the Group, although with the exception of the litigation relating to the Groups joint venture, Twin America, there were The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Conduct no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit separate disclosure and use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a mechanism for in the Annual Report.
employees with serious concerns about the conduct of the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee ensures that appropriate As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately upon a management and the external auditors updated the Committee on complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular interest in developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, guidance for any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any known audit committees, the Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Committee.
Governance Code and legislation affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory developments and guidance.
The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin 6.7 Focus over the last year Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee considered the principal judgemental As described in section 6.6, the Groups Code of Conduct and Speaking Up accounting issues affecting the Group based on reports from both the Policy were reviewed by the Committee.
Groups management and the external auditors.
The external auditors Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of attended all meetings of the Committee and presented on its audit plans and management were shared with the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
The main accounting judgements that the Committee considered in respect Overall, the Committee considers that it has continued to operate effectively of the financial results for the year ended 30 April 2013, included: during the year.
The appropriateness of the judgements made in preparing the financial statements in respect of the matters detailed in section 2.6.
15 of this report, critical accounting policies and estimates, including the judgements in determining the amount of tax balances, insurance provisions, contract provisions, pension assets and liabilities, the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and balances in respect of rail Garry Watts contractual positions.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The appropriateness of the judgements made in determining the amount 26 June 2013 of the token redemption provision.
Which items should be reported as exceptional items in the consolidated income statement.
The timing of recognising the refund to the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, of bid costs incurred in bidding for the aborted West Coast Trains franchise.
