Corporate Governance Report Year ended 28 February 2013 Above all other objectives, the Board is there to ensure that the Group provides long term and sustainable growth for its shareholders.
Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this growth Senior Independent Director by ensuring that there is effective authority and accountability Alan Kelsey was the Senior Independent Director of the Group throughout the organisation.
The base that the Group uses for this for the financial period.
His role was to: is the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Code issued Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which by the Financial Reporting Council and appended to the Listing cannot be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive Rules and which sets out best practice of how a company should Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with Chief Executive Officer and his team.
the Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, explain the Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at reason for non-compliance.
least once a year without the presence of the Chairman or The Directors believe that the Group has complied throughout the the Executive Directors in order to review the Chairmans period with the code provisions set out in the 2010 Code.
performance in his her role and also the Chairmans Printed copies of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance relationship with the Chief Executive Officer.
and the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable for financial years commencing on or after 29 June 2010 can be obtained free Post Year End of charge from the Financial Reporting Council FRC Publications Avril Palmer-Baunack stood down from her role as Executive by emailing customerservices@cch.
co. uk, by telephoning Chairman on 2 April 2013 and left the Group on 15 May 2013.
Paul Orchard-Lisle has been appointed as Interim NonExecutive Chairman on 15 May 2013.
A search is underway for The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer a new Non-Executive Chairman.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held Alan Kelsey resigned from his position on 23 April 2013 and by different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles.
Stobart Group are currently working to secure a replacement The Chairmans role is to manage the Board of Directors, Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director.
ensure that the Non-Executives are committed to their positions and are able to contribute to the management of the Group as Company Secretary and Independent Advice a whole.
The Company Secretarys role is to act as advisor to the Board The Chief Executive Officers role is to implement strategy laid on matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in conjunction down by the Board of Directors and to manage the Group and with the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between its operations.
The Board of Directors is collectively responsible the Board, its various committees, the Non-Executive and for the success of the Group.
Executive Directors and senior members of the Executive Team.
Board Balance and Independence The Non-Executive Directors have access to his advice and services in addition to independent, professional advice if As at 28 February 2013 the Board consisted of eight individuals required at the Groups expense.
four of whom were independent Non-Executive Directors and four including the Chairman were Executive Directors.
Over the past Matters Reserved for the Board and how it Operates year this Board has had the appropriate balance and skill set to In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal advise on the Groups growth.
schedule of matters requiring its decision.
In summary, those On 28 June 2012 Jesper Kjaedegaard stepped down from his matters reserved to the Board include: position as Non-Executive Director.
On 18 September 2012 Avril Strategy of the Group.
Palmer-Baunack was appointed as an Executive Director and Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and their Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
Also on this date William Stobart potential consequence on the Group and the environment in was re-appointed as an Executive Director.
On 21 January 2013 David Beever resigned from his position as Non-Executive Director.
Avril Palmer-Baunack was appointedContinuing review of Group performance against its forecasts.
Executive Chairman also on 21 January 2013.
Consideration and approval of financial results, dividend Both the Executive and NonExecutive Directors in position at the policy and payments.
date of this report offer themselves for re-election on an annual Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group.
Approval of financial and other commitments above those delegated to the Executive.
Monitoring internal control and risk management.
Appointment of the Executive Directors on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 47 The Board has met for eight scheduled meetings during the When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the course of the 12 months under review and attendance at such Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will Chair the Board Meetings by individual Directors is set out below.
There Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has were two additional meetings to discuss the proposed share buyfound a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will back scheme, interim management statement and verification make the proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the statement.
responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
The agenda and relevant briefing papers are distributed by the Company Secretary on a timely basis, usually a week in advance Information, Induction and Professional Development of each Board meeting.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive In addition, the Board met with members of the senior management comprehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to team on 3 October 2012 to discuss the Groups vision and strategy perform their duties properly.
and review business planning and risk mechanisms.
New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the Board, Director No.
meetings typically including meeting members of the senior management attended eligible to attend team and visits to operational sites.
All Directors have access to Rodney Baker-Bates 10 10 the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are Avril Palmer-Baunack 44 complied with.
Andrew Tinkler 9 10 Board and Governance Evaluation Ben Whawell 10 10 An internal Board and Governance Evaluation of Stobart Group Michael Kayser 9 10 was conducted in 2011 12.
At the outset of this process, the Jesper Kjaedegaard 34 Board stated their commitment to delivering improved performance as a result of any findings.
William Stobart 23 The evaluation process commenced in September 2011 and David Beever 9 10 reported back to the Board in May 2012 with a summary of Alan Kelsey 10 10 actions, all of which have now been satisfactorily concluded.
In line with UK best practice as outlined in the UK Governance Paul Orchard-Lisle 9 10 Code, the Board will be conducting an independent external audit during 2013.
This year Stobart Group Board Governance Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the NonEvaluation will be conducted by external consultants who have Executive Directors to challenge performance of the various already been appointed.
We are confident that this exercise will Divisions against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions help us to build on our existing strengths and to optimise the which have taken place since the preceding meeting and to contribution of the Board to the future success of our business.
receive reports from the Boards committees.
Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with which permit any Director to record their views if they have any Executive Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions concerns which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve.
No about their performance with them, as does the Chairman with such concerns were voiced during this period.
The Board undertakes a regular cycle of training on Corporate Governance Matters.
Appointments to the Board Corporate Social Responsibility The Board has established a Nomination Committee which is required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so required, Chief Financial Officer, Ben Whawell takes Board level in order to make recommendations to the Board on the responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups composition, balance and membership of the Board.
policy and approach for Corporate Social Responsibility.
This includes its arrangements for matters relating to people, The Nomination Committee society and the environment.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year.
The The Audit Committee Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, size The Audit Committee is mandated to establish formal and and composition of the Board and succession planning for transparent arrangements for considering how to apply the Directors and Senior Executives.
financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain The Committees members are the Non-Executive Directors.
For an appropriate relationship with the external auditors.
new potential Non-Executive Board members, the Nomination The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial Committee meets and agrees to appoint an external consultant statements, internal financial controls and internal audit functions.
to assist with the selection of a shortlist of potential NonThe Committee also makes recommendations to the Board in Executive Directors.
relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
Once this shortlist is presented, the Nomination Committee The objectivity and independence of the auditors is reviewed meets and undertakes a formal, rigorous and transparent and considered to be safeguarded.
The non-audit fees paid to procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
the auditors are expected to be less than the Group audit fees.
Careful consideration is given by the Nomination Committee to Excluded work includes lead advisory mergers and acquisitions ensure that any appointees to the Board have enough time transaction type work.
available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 48 Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Membership develop an understanding of their views which are periodically fed back to the Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Kayser and its other Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts and member was Alan Kelsey, both of whom were fully independent investors covering the annual and half year results.
David Beever was a member of the members of the Board meet with institutional investors and Audit Committee until 21 January 2013.
Following Alan Kelseys analysts on a periodic basis.
resignation from the Board, Rodney Baker-Bates has joined the Audit Committee until another Non-Executive Director is recruited The Company Secretary generally deals with enquiries from and to ensure the quorum is present at meetings.
com Secretary acts as its secretary.
contains published information and press releases.
Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and the Nomination Whistleblowing Policy Committee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has prepared and approved a whistleblowing policy which has been circulated within the Group.
This policy includes The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two arrangements for employees to raise concerns about possible members.
The Chief Financial Officer and the Groups external improprieties in financial or other matters.
Arrangements include auditors will normally be invited to attend meetings.
independent investigation of such matters and appropriate At least once a year, the Audit Committee will meet with the follow-up action.
external auditors without the Chief Financial Officer or any other Executive Directors present.
Internal Control and Risk Management Attendance at Audit Committee meetings The Directors responsibilities in connection with the financial statements are set out in the Directors Report on page 44.
The The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from December Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Groups 2011 which are available on the Groups website require it to system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
meet at least three times per year.
During the period under The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of review, the Audit Committee met on nine occasions, with mitigating actions and internal control to be fundamental to attendance as set out in the table below: achieving the Groups strategy.
Internal control gives the Board Number of Audit Committee meetings in the period 9 reasonable but not absolute assurance.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Director No.
meetings significant risks faced by the Group and maintains a risk register.
attended eligible to attend The system of internal control is based upon: Michael Kayser 99 The Boards overall responsibility.
David Beever 79The Groups organisational structure, with established lines of accountability, as well as clearly defined levels of authority.
Alan Kelsey 89 Regular, and at least annual, review by the Board and the A summary of issues dealt with by the Audit Committee during the Audit Committee.
year is set out below: Compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
Findings from the external audit for the year ended 29 Support by company policies in other areas such as finance.
Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to Findings from the external review of the interims by the Auditors.
It can also only provide Presentation by the Auditors of the planning documents in reasonable and not absolute assurance against material respect of the Audit for the year ended 28 February 2013. misstatement or loss.
Review of the internal audit procedures and consideration of The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the their adequacy.
effectiveness of internal control including financial, operational Review of related party transactions.
and compliance controls together with risk management in Audit tender process and appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as accordance with the Code over the period of this report, and auditors.
to the date of its publication and confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified.
If they had been, Review of the feedback of external shareholder representatives the Board confirms that the necessary actions would have been regarding the disclosures in the Annual Report 2012. taken to remedy them.
Considered and approved the external auditors independence.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence of the auditorsApproval of other non-audit services by the external auditors.
at the interims and at year end.
The Audit Committee has a Approval of policy regarding non-audit services performed by policy of reviewing the status of the auditors after five years and the auditors and related fees.
Appropriateness of the level of dividend payment.
The Group has a business systems internal audit function which Shareholder Relations reviews performance against the agreed policies and procedures.
The Board has considered extending this to all The Company is committed to maintaining good communications aspects of financial controls and procedures and concluded with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, that it is not necessary.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have ongoing dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to Michael Kayser I Chairman of the Audit Committee Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 49
