Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, which it reviews and agrees annually, but also delegates specific The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board SEB Governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Specific responsibilities reserved for the The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good Board include: governance and this report together with the Remuneration report set out on pages 40 to 50 describe how the Board has applied the main Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy, strategic principles of good governance set out in the Code during the year business plan and the annual operating budget: under review.
Approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, interim The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has been in dividends and recommendation of the final dividend: compliance with the conditions of the Code up to the date of this Approval of any changes to the Companys capital structure including report except where any non-compliance is disclosed and explained.
the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the Companys The following statements set out the principles and methods to which shares: they adhere.
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of 5 million: Report and the financial statements is set out in the Directors report on page 32.
Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another company greater than 5% of the Companys share capital: The Board As at 31 March 2013, and as at the date of this report, the Board of Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess Directors was made up of five members, comprising a non-executive of 10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than 2.5 million: Chairman, two further non-executive Directors and two executive Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of 10 million: Directors.
R E Lerwill retired from the Board as Chairman with effect from 7 June 2012.
D K Nichol took up the role as Chairman with effect from Major changes in the rules of the company pension schemes, 7 June 2012.
Notwithstanding that D K Nichol has been a non-executive or changes of trustees or fund management arrangements: Director since November 2002, the Board believes D K Nichol is Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive independent for the purposes of the Code.
He brings to the Board schemes and the allocation of executive share options: significant experience of the wider health sector and by his conduct has displayed the highest Corporate Governance standards.
Finally, the All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of Board believes that D K Nichol will play a pivotal role in the development communications to the Stock Exchange: and succession planning of the Board, particularly given the relatively Establishing Board membership and powers including the recent appointments to the Board.
All of the non-executive Directors are appointment and removal of Board members and the Group considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of Company Secretary: any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Establishing Terms of Reference and membership of the Board committees: The Board is actively seeking to recruit a further non-executive Director, who will also act as the Senior Independent Director.
The Company has Approval of all Related Party Transactions: engaged Odgers Berndtson to assist with the appointment of a further Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making non-executive Director.
The recruitment process is being managed by recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors: D K Nichol supported by the Group Company Secretary.
Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on page by insurance: 31.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Directors is detailed Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter in the Remuneration report on page 40. into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and authorising bank facilities including bank borrowing, other loans and The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination internal rate swaps, and approval of all foreign currency transactions Committee section below.
in excess of 5 million: The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness: as required.
The Board met 12 times during the year, and attendance for each is set out on page 38.
Other matters including health and safety and risk management.
The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to conduct to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives in In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and attendance for certain sessions as appropriate.
ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings are understood and met.
by means of an electronic Board Pad facility, which provides greater flexibility for the Directors to access papers and also have access to the advice and services of the Companys advisers.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 35 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Group Company Secretary is charged with ensuring that the Board Although the non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of compliance is implemented throughout the Group.
Together with the the annual and interim results is encouraged.
Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Company Secretary, the The formal Terms of Reference for the main Board committees Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed and approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist in the consulted on all issues reserved for it.
discharge of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate are also listed on the Companys website.
The Terms of Reference and clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing of the main Board committees are reviewed annually and updated and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans principal responsibilities where necessary.
are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the Senior Executive Board effective running of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive Officers The SEB is the key management committee and comprises the principal responsibility is leading the SEB in the day-to-day running of Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, Group the Groups business.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary, Group Commercial Director and the CEOs meet regularly between meetings.
of each of the four geographic regions of the Group and meets In accordance with best practice the Chairman addresses the regularly and at least monthly.
developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to developing The SEB is primarily responsible for: its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
In addition, The management of all the Groups businesses: the Board received a training and development seminar on key Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets governance issues and legal updates from its external solicitors.
which have been signed off by the Board: During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own Implementing Group policy: performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees by means of a written questionnaire to ensure that they Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed continue to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates business plan and strategy: commitment to his or her respective role and has sufficient time to Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : meet his or her commitment to the Company.
The evaluation focused on several areas including Board structure, meeting administration, Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system meetings and their content, strategy, Board committees, of internal control on a day-to-day basis: and communication and information, and governance.
The results of the Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 evaluation were considered and discussed by the Board.
evaluations, including skills brought to the Board and the contributions each Director made to it, were carried out for each Director.
Board committees In view of the Board changes and the active search for a new Senior Remuneration Committee Independent Director, and the development of the Americas region At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises during the year, and in order to allow such changes to bed in, an C F Baroudel Chairman and the two non-executive Directors, independent external evaluation was not carried out during the year, D K Nichol and E A Hewitt, all of whom were independent, subject to but will be carried out during the year ending 30 March 2014 in the comments above in respect of the independence of D K Nichol in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
accordance with the definition set out in the Code.
The Committee met The non-executive Directors also held formal meetings to consider the five times during the year and Directors attendance for each meeting is Chairmans performance.
shown in the table on page 38.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Meetings between the non-executive Directors both with and without the questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
presence of the Group Chief Executive Officer, take place regularly.
The Board has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business locations The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
Reviewing and making recommendations on the Companys This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the framework of executive remuneration and cost including all opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors emoluments, pension entitlements and other benefits of the on more informal occasions.
The non-executive Directors are also invited executive Directors and as appropriate other senior executives.
to attend the Groups Leadership Conference, which is held annually.
This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid: Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for a Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive Directors committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third remuneration by reference to individual performance and market data: of the Directors will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors submit Setting and confirming the rewards under the Groups Long Term themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
New Directors may Incentive Plan LTIP and the LTIP Co-invest plan: and be appointed by the Board, but are subject to election by shareholders Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and the at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all Directors, including visits to key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the SEB and other key executives.
The induction also covers a review of the Group Governance policies, structures and business, including the details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
36 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements In addition during the year the Remuneration Committee: In addition, the Audit Committee during the year: Reviewed the possible adoption of a Bonus Banking Plan to replace Reviewed the Committees effectiveness: the current LTIP arrangements: Reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference: Reviewed and approved dual contracts for R M Steeves to reflect Reviewed tax and treasury policies: the substantial amount of time R M Steeves will spend in the US: Received and considered reports from the risk management function: Reviewed the position of the Groups three Defined Benefit Pension Schemes and endorsed the recovery plans in place: Received and considered reports on the Groups investment in new ERP systems, and their global implementation.
Undertook a review of the proposals required to comply with the Governments automatic enrolment proposals.
The Committee has primary responsibility for oversight of the external auditors.
This includes deciding whether to seek to re-tender the audit Meeting agendas are linked to events in the Companys calendar.
and making a recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, Audit Committee re-appointment or removal of the external auditors by assessing, on an annual basis, their qualifications, expertise, resources and independence At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised E A Hewitt and the effectiveness of the previous audit process.
Chairman and also the two non-executive Directors D K Nichol and C F Baroudel who, subject to the comments above in respect of the KPMG Audit plc were appointed as Auditors to the Company in 2006, independence of D K Nichol, are independent in accordance with and are re-appointed annually by shareholders.
KPMG Audit plc also the definition set out in the Code.
audits the subsidiaries of the Group.
To ensure objectivity, key members of the audit team are periodically rotated off the audit.
The Board considers that E A Hewitt is suitably qualified to chair the Committee in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
During the year, the Committee reviewed KPMG Audit plcs fees, effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee also from senior executive levels.
The expertise and the experience of the considered the audit plans robustness, the degree to which KPMG members of the Committee are summarised on page 31.
Audit plc was able to assess key accounting and audit judgements, Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding the recommendations of the external auditors in connection with of the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting, including internal controls, and the content of the management letter.
the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, finance, internal control auditors are set out below: mechanisms and matters that require the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts as well as the role of the external auditors.
Deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit: The Committee met three times during the year and the Directors Provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 38. a timely basis: Meeting agendas are linked to events in the Companys financial Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects calendar.
Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings and local risks and materiality.
provide reports as and when considered appropriate.
The Committee meets with external auditors without management present at least The Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that once during the year.
The Committee has direct access to the the relationship and effectiveness of the external auditor be kept Groups auditors and liaises with executive management to review under review.
the effectiveness of internal controls.
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors, The Audit Committee has the following key duties: which is reviewed by management, the Committee considers cost comparisons to ensure that it is fair and appropriate.
The total fees To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to paid to KPMG Audit plc in the year ended 31 March 2013 were approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, 647,000 2012: 435,000 of which 178,000 related to non-audit major judgemental areas, significant audit adjustments, going concern work 2012: 58,000. and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange and legal requirements: The Committee reviewed and revised its policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their continued To monitor the Groups systems of internal control: objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied that the To monitor the effectiveness of the external audit process: provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
The Committee has approved the range Litigation and contingent liabilities: of services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc.
These include Tax matters including compliance with statutory tax reporting transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance on projects.
obligations: Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services require prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the Chairman of To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the including allocation of non-audit fees to ensure that their Audit Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any independency and objectivity is maintained: shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
To meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues The Audit Committee is allowed to obtain, at the Companys expense, arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise: and outside legal or other professional advice on any matter within its terms To review the Groups corporate review procedures and any statement of reference.
No external independent advice has been considered on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board.
necessary or sought in the year to 31 March 2013.
There have been no changes to the Audit Committees terms of reference in the year.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 37 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Company has further reviewed and updated its policies in light Directors conflict of interest of the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010.
The Company remains There are procedures in place to deal with Directors conflict of interest committed to the highest standards of business conduct and insists arising under the Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have all its employees act accordingly.
operated effectively during the year.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and updated the Companys ethics Articles of Association and whistleblowing policies and the policies are available on the The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Special Companys website.
Resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
Nomination Committee Internal control The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of this The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the report comprised D K Nichol Chairman and also the non-executive Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of Directors E A Hewitt and C F Baroudel.
With effect from 7 June 2012, those controls.
D K Nichol, took up the role of Chairman of the Committee when R E Lerwill stepped down from the Board.
Only members of the The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Code, Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has invited by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure Board in relation to potential appointments.
It meets as and when Board to achieve the Groups objectives.
The systems provide reasonable, not appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made.
absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures circumstances.
to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations and appointments to the Board.
The Committee has access to such The Group have appointed Grant Thornton with effect from 1 June 2013 information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the to provide internal audit services across the Group, focusing initially upon cost of the Company, as it considers necessary.
This may include the transactional and financial reporting risk.
Once established, it is expected appointment of external executive search consultants where considered that this service will provide assurance across a wider spectrum of risks.
The Committee met once during the year.
The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group For the proposed new Senior Independent Director role, the Company Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure engaged a firm of external search consultants, Odgers Berndtson to objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information.
handle the search and recruitment process.
The Nomination Committee The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional will be fully involved with both the recruitment and assessment of finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and potential candidates.
A shortlist of candidates will be put through a commercial support when required.
rigorous assessment process and final candidates will be interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee.
Assessment of business risk Existing and emerging business risks have been identified, assessed The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs and evaluated during the year as part of the Groups management of the Group to enable it to compete effectively in the market place.
processes, the formal risk management framework led by the Group The Nomination Committee also advises the Board on succession Director of Risk Management ensures that risks are effectively and planning for executive Board appointments although the Board is consistently managed and reported on.
The corporate risk management itself responsible for succession generally.
system is covered in the report of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board Committees.
The Board regularly reviews strategic risks.
Directors attendance record Control environment The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for Committees was as follows: reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: Audit Remuneration Nomination The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise.
Board Committee Committee Committee Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major capital Total number of meetings 12 3 5 1 projects: 1 R E Lerwill 0 of 5 0 of 2 A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are R M Steeves 12 of 12 produced at least twice a year: G Hill 12 of 12 A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational D K Nichol 12 of 12 3 of 3 5 of 5 1 of 1 level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet and C F Baroudel 12 of 12 3 of 3 5 of 5 1 of 1 cash flow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts and prior year with major variances explained: E A Hewitt 12 of 12 3 of 3 5 of 5 1 of 1 A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any Notes new risks arising and management of existing risks.
1 R E Lerwill stepped down from the Board on 7 June 2012.
38 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review Relationship with shareholders of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered The Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director and the by the Board.
The annual review gives a comprehensive update on Group Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective the previous years report and outlines actions taken to redress any communication with shareholders.
The Company places considerable weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions.
importance on communication with the shareholders, including its The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been employee shareholders.
implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee.
with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report and Financial Control procedures Statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper form Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been or electronically and can be accessed via the Companys website.
developed for each of the Groups businesses.
The implications The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements of change in law and regulations are taken into account within issued by the London Stock Exchange, are published on the those procedures.
Monitoring process The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders through a combination of analysts briefings throughout the year There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls.
but particularly at the interim and year end results stage.
The significant components are: Business at the Companys Annual General Meeting will cover the Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls by Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Remuneration report, the Director of Risk Management, the Groups quality managers, the the declaration of a final dividend, election and re-election of Directors, Head of IT, senior finance managers and the Group finance team: political donations and political expenditure, authority to allot shares, Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company of its assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work own shares, notice period for general meetings, and the appointment of external audit and direct access to Group and operational and remuneration of auditors.
Our auditor, KPMG Audit plc, has instigated an orderly wind down The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the of business.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial appointed as auditor, and a resolution concerning their appointment year and up to the date of this report.
will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Compliance statement Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code for the Notice of Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as period under review and has throughout the year complied with the well as abstentions, are counted before the Annual General Meeting and detailed provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors, KPMG the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have Audit plc, are required to review whether the above statement reflects voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
All results, statements and the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Code specified for Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the its review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if Groups website.
it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2013 39
