Governance Corporate governance Application of the Code The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: Report from the Chairman Dear Shareholder Leadership and effectiveness Corporate governance was a primary focus for your Operation of the Board Board throughout 2013 as a result of the requirement The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board to comply with and report on the new Directors which, during 2013, comprised two executive Directors and Remuneration Report regulations and the September seven non-executive Directors until the 2013 Annual General 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code for the first time Meeting after which the number of non-executive Directors in this annual report.
A project was initiated in the first reduced to six.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive quarter of the year to meet the requirements for officer are clearly divided between Mr Johnson who heads reporting on Directors remuneration and a full report the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and on the work undertaken by the Remuneration Mr A M Whiteld who has responsibility for the running of the Committee in this regard is given in the Remuneration Companys business as Chief Executive officer.
executive Directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of business sectors.
The Nomination Committee was tasked with the process of identifying candidates for lling the The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which independent non-executive Director position left vacant includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the by the departure of Ishbel Macpherson in May 2013. strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies I was very pleased to announce the appointment of in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment Brendan Connolly at the start of 2014 who has agreed and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject to take over from me as Chairman of the Remuneration to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, Committee next month.
financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement The Audit Committee expanded the scope of its remit of litigation.
in 2013 and will return to full compliance with the composition requirements of the Code from March 2014.
During 2013 the Board held eight scheduled meetings to review current and projected performance and to determine Your Board continues to review and develop its strategic issues with a half day dedicated to an annual governance policies and processes and to seek to report strategy development review.
The Directors receive in advance to shareholders in a meaningful and clear manner.
I am full information on all matters to be discussed at Board pleased to present our full statements on compliance meetings as well as a detailed review of performance prepared and application of the Code in 2013 in the rest of this by the Chief Executive officer.
The Board has established report which I hope you nd informative.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees which are discussed below.
Neil Johnson In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board Chairman to visit up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local management.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual non-executive Directors on request.
During 2013 the Board held a meeting in Marl, Germany and in Filago, Statement of compliance Italy at the ofces of its businesses.
In conjunction with those The Company considers that it has complied throughout the Board meetings presentations were given by local senior financial year ended 31 December 2013 with the provisions management and the Directors were given the opportunity set out in the Code except in relation to the composition of to visit the Groups plants.
the Board and its Committees in that: the Board lacked one independent non-executive Director The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive officer in order to be balanced: responsibility for the development and preparation of the the Audit and Remuneration Committees each comprised business plan for the Group and the annual Group budget two independent non-executive Directors instead of three: for recommendation to the Board.
As the senior executive the Nomination Committee was not composed of a Director, the Chief Executive officer is responsible for all majority of independent non-executive Directors.
aspects of day-to-day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive officer Further details on these matters and how they have been has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose addressed are set out in this report.
other members are the Chief Financial officer, the Chief Operating officer, the Chief Counsel and Company Secretary, the Vice President Human Resources, the Vice President Europe, Middle East & Africa, the Vice President South-east Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 25 Corporate governance continued Asia, the Vice President Finance and the Vice President Induction and training Operational Excellence & Engineering to assist him in the Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure performance of his duties and which meets once a month.
new Directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on The Chairman has available to him the minutes of the appointment.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training Executive Committee and all Directors receive a monthly and development needs of the Directors and the skills and trading summary and commentary from the Chief Financial knowledge of the Board as a whole are updated by briengs officer and an update report from the Chief Executive officer.
provided by the Companys internal resources and materials and seminars offered by external advisers.
Board membership and balance The Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Senior Performance evaluation Independent Director are identied on page 24.
The Chairmen Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and and members of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration its Directors were carried out in the last year by the following Committees are identied below.
The Board considers internal processes: Mr J K Maiden, Dr J J C Jansz, Mr J Chen and an assessment of the performance of individual nonMr B W D Connolly are independent in accordance executive Directors is carried out by the Chairman through with the provisions of the Code.
a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions using performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for For some seven months of 2013 the Company was not in those discussions.
Every non-executive Director is compliance with the requirement of Code provision B.
1.2 assessed in this way once a year: for half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise the performance of the executive Directors was reviewed independent non-executive Directors.
Following completion in August 2013 at a meeting of the non-executive Directors of a recruitment exercise in 2013 which culminated with the chaired by the Chairman: appointment of Mr B W D Connolly in January 2014 the a meeting of the non-executive Directors in the absence Board has returned to compliance with this requirement.
of the Chairman chaired by the Senior Independent Director was held in September 2013 to evaluate the The Board held a total of eight meetings in 2013.
In addition performance of the Chairman, taking into account the the Chairman held one separate meeting with the nonviews of the executive Directors: and executive Directors without the executive Directors being the Board and its Committees carry out an annual present to appraise the performance of the executive self-assessment of performance led by the Chairman and management.
The non-executive Directors also met once the Chairman of each committee respectively.
The results without the Chairman to appraise his performance.
of assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen were reviewed by the relevant committees and The table below shows the number of meetings the Board and were shared with and discussed by the of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Board as a whole at its meeting in November 2013.
Committees held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
Where a Director is unable to The Board has not introduced an externally facilitated Board attend a Board or Committee meeting his views on agenda evaluation process during 2013 but continues to keep the items are canvassed in advance of the meeting and benets of doing so under review.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms.
Number of All Directors submit themselves for annual election at each meetings held Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Annual General Meeting.
84 41 Number of meetings Board committees attended The Board has formally established Nomination, Audit, D C Blackwood 8 8 N A N A N A and Remuneration Committees, each with their own terms A G Catto 8 8 4 4 N A N A of reference which set out their respective roles and the authority delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the N A Johnson 8 8 N A 4 4 1 1 terms of reference are available upon request from the Lee Hau Hian 8 8 N A N A N A Company Secretary and can also be downloaded from J K Maiden 8 8 4 4 4 4 1 1 the Companys website.
All non-executive Directors have A M Whiteld 7 8 N A N A 0 1 a standing invitation to attend Committee meetings unless J J C Jansz 8 8 4 4 4 4 N A 1 they are notied otherwise.
I J S Macpherson 1 5 N A N A N A J Chen 7 8 N A N A N A Two meetings were held to deal exclusively with remuneration matters.
26 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Audit Committee membership since 1 January 2013: Audit Committee Chairmans statement Jez Maiden Chairman Dear Shareholder Just Jansz During 2013 the Committees work focused on Alex Catto from 6 March 2013 implementation of the changes to narrative reporting and Ishbel Macpherson until 7 February 2013 the corporate governance environment which applied to the Group with effect from the start of the year, in addition to our normal support of the Groups internal The role of the Audit Committee control and external audit work.
Throughout 2013 the Audit Committee was chaired by Mr J K Maiden and comprised at least two independent At the request of the Board, the Committee has extended non-executive Directors together with one non-independent its remit to include a review of the content of the annual non-executive Director.
Following the appointment of report and accounts in order to advise the Board on its Mr B W D Connolly to the Committee with effect from statement required by Section C. 1.1. of the UK Corporate March 2014, the Committee will revert to comprising three Governance Code described below.
The Committee has also reviewed how it reports to the Board and to independent non-executive Directors.
Mr Maiden is shareholders on the discharge of its responsibilities and considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial continues to seek to enhance reporting to both.
experience for the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 of the Code due to his current financial role outside the Group.
Following the external audit tender process undertaken in 2012 which resulted in the appointment of The Committee has established a detailed remit regarding the  LLP in July that year the application of financial reporting and internal control principles, Committee has monitored the effectiveness of the audit which covers: process and is pleased to recommend their re-appointment at the 2014 annual general meeting.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating The second year of our three year work plan relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing to co-sourced internal audit services was successfully significant financial reporting judgements contained completed in 2013.
The result was that all the Groups in them: operating companies have now been visited by KPMG UK reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and LLP, the co-sourced internal auditor, or received visits from the Companys Head of internal Audit and senior members the Groups internal control and risk management of the head ofce finance team to review controls, and in systems: the case of larger operating companies they have received monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the both visits.
Groups internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board regarding The Committees work during the course of the year also the selection and appointment of the external auditor involved discharging its other responsibilities for those and approving their remuneration and terms of matters delegated to it by the Board under its remit and engagement: which is reported on in the following section of this report.
reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness Alex Catto served on the Committee during the year on an of the audit process: and interim basis and will be replaced by Brendan Connolly in developing and implementing policy on the March 2014.
I would like to thank Alex for his work and engagement of the external auditor to supply welcome Brendan to the Committee.
The Board has during the year extended the Jez Maiden Committees remit such that the Committee now also: Audit Committee Chairman advises the Board, in connection with its obligation under Section C. 1.1 of the Code, on whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance of the Group, along with its business model and strategy: ensures that the external audit services contract is put out to tender at least once every ten years: and reports on the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 27 Corporate governance continued The Chief Financial officer and senior members of his Auditor objectivity and independence department attend meetings of the Committee as part of the With regard to seeking to ensure the independence and review of the Groups interim and annual financial statements objectivity of the auditor, the Audit Committees policy, which prior to their submission to the Board and as part of the was reviewed and revised during the year, is to ensure that internal audit process.
The Committee meets periodically the auditors integrity is not compromised, by restricting their with the Companys auditor without management present to involvement in the provision of non-audit services where a discuss the adequacy of the Groups financial management, conict of interest, real or perceived, may exist.
The policy internal controls and information systems and to review splits the approval of non-audit work into three categories: the terms of the auditors engagement, effectiveness, services which are prohibited independence and objectivity.
services which are pre-approved subject to limits services which require specic approval on a Activities during the year case-by-case basis.
The Committee met formally four times during 2013 and carried out the following main activities in addition to the items Prohibited services include: mentioned in the Chairmans overview: maintaining or preparing accounting records and Reviewed the financial statements in the 2012 annual financial statements: report and the 2013 interim statement: the design and implementation of financial information Reviewed the scope and effectiveness of the external audit: systems or financial controls: Reviewed the Groups Risk Register: secondments to the Group: Monitored the effectiveness of internal controls and recruitment and remuneration related services for key risk management: management positions: Received reports from the external auditor on the major appraisal, valuation and actuarial services: findings of its work: tax services which require interpretation of tax law Approved the annual external audit plan and the basis or reliance on accounting treatments: on which the auditor assesses materiality: legal services unrelated to the audit.
Received a report on the Groups tax provisions and restructuring: A full copy of the policy on the provision of non-audit services Approved a new policy on the provision of non-audit by the external auditor is available on the Company website.
services by the external auditor: Reviewed the remit and effectiveness of the Committee: In addition the auditor has been requested not to provide Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements: services to executive Directors or senior executives except Reviewed the Groups internal audit plan: and where approved by the Audit Committee.
Non-executive Received detailed reports and presentations from KPMG, Directors are required to disclose any relationship they have the co-sourced internal auditors, and the reviews with the auditor.
Prior to appointment in July 2012 undertaken by senior members of head ofce finance  LLP were providing and have team.
Reviewed reports relating to the implementation continued to provide personal tax advice to the Chief of recommendations from internal audit visits to enable Executive officer and expatriate tax services to the Groups the Committee to assess the improvements in the Groups senior managers who are required to work outside their home controls and reporting and where further actions are country.
The Committee do not consider that the provision of required.
Considered and approved the plan for 2014 these services creates any conict of interest as they are of a internal audit reviews which will complete the initial three minor nature and are provided by individuals and teams who year cycle under which all Group companies will be visited are not involved in the audit and accordingly have approved by KPMG and senior members of Group finance during their continuation.
Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor in 2013 In addition the Chairman of the Committee had regular are set out in note 6 on page 71.
Non-audit fees principally dialogue with the external auditor during the course of the year.
relate to tax compliance and tax advisory services and due diligence work in relation to potential acquisitions.
28 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Assessment of effectiveness of the external audit Nomination Committee During the year the Committee evaluated the performance, Nomination Committee membership since 1 January 2013: independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
As part of this process feedback was obtained from head Neil Johnson Chairman ofce and operating company staff involved with the external Jez Maiden audit together with the Committees meetings with the Adrian Whiteld external auditors.
The Committee assessed the robustness The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size of the audit, the quality of delivery of the audit against the and composition of the Board and the making of recommendations with agreed plan and the competence with which the auditors regard to any changes: leading the process for Board appointments and handle key accounting and audit adjustments.
Considering nominating candidates for non-executive positions: and considering succession planning.
all of these factors the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
Since 17 May 2012 the Nomination Committee has not Financial reporting and significant judgements complied with the composition requirements of Code As part of their monitoring of the integrity of the financial Provision B.
2.1 in that a majority of its members are not statements, the Committee reviews whether suitable independent non-executive Directors.
The Board considers accounting policies have been adopted, whether management that the current composition of the Nomination Committee has made appropriate estimates and judgements and also provides it with the exibility and speed of decision making seeks support from the external auditors to assess them.
that is necessary in connection with the interview process required for making nominations to ll Board vacancies.
The main issues reviewed in the year ended 31 December Accordingly the Board does not currently intend to 2013 are set out below: make any changes to the composition of this Committee.
The Committee led the process for nominating Provisions for uncertain taxation positions: Mr B W D Connolly for appointment as an independent significant judgement is exercised by management, non-executive Director.
This process involved a thorough with advice from appropriate tax advisors, to arrive at review of a range of candidates put forward by an the amounts provided for tax as the final tax outcome of independent recruitment consultancy, Heidrick & Struggles several transactions is uncertain and may not be known with which the Company has no other connection which for several years.
As part of their audit the external auditor conducted an extensive search process.
The diversity reviewed the judgements that had been made, using tax including gender of the Board was taken into account specialists as appropriate, and provided the Committee by the Committee when making this nomination.
with an assessment of the appropriateness of management judgements.
The Committee also reviewed senior management succession planning within the Group during the course of the year.
Dened benefit pension accounting: The Group operates a number of dened benefit schemes The Nomination Committee held one formal meeting during which have significant liabilities as outlined in Note 25 to 2013 and a number of informal meetings and telephone calls the Group Financial Statements.
Although the UK schemes as well as several interviews in connection with the nomination are closed to future accrual they are sensitive to changes process referred to above.
During their audit, the external auditor evaluated the assumptions and methodologies The Board adopted a policy on diversity in March 2013. used by the Groups actuarial advisors and management This policy seeks to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense and assessed whether the assumptions made were is taken into account in the process of making appointments appropriate and not materially different from external on merit against objective selection criteria.
The external auditors reported to us that policy is available at www.
Further details they were satisfied with the assumptions used and with on the Companys approach to diversity is contained within the way that the schemes had been accounted for.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 29 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee A report on the approach to internal control is set out below.
All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and The Directors endeavour to make the annual report and remuneration are covered in the Remuneration report, financial statements as informative and understandable set out on pages 32 to 48. as possible.
Relations with shareholders Internal control Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the basis by the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial Groups system of internal control and sets appropriate officer and meetings take place following the announcement policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal of interim and full year results and at other times according control are met.
The system of internal control deployed to circumstances.
within the Group is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication eliminated.
The internal control system adopted can principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
about meeting such business objectives or against material These principles require the Chairman to be present with mis-statement or loss.
the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer at sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
consolidation processes are designed under the supervision Alternatively the Chairman is also available for meetings with of the Chief Financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the major shareholders at their request.
preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes in The Chief Executive officer reports on shareholder relations at each Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders accordance with IFRS.
relating to corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman with the assistance of the Chairmen of the An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks faced by the Group has been Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Written reports on all meetings between non-executive Directors and in place since 2000.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into the businesses and to institutional shareholders and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at the first opportunity following such enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes and information, and has been operated throughout 2013 and meetings as is all correspondence with them.
up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal The system is applied across the Group on a functional channels of the Chairman or the Chief Executive officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
and regional basis and a bottom up risk prole is created by evaluating the information at an operational and Group The Board seeks to encourage participation of all level.
Individual senior managers within Synthomers businesses identify and assess key risks associated within shareholders, and in particular private investors, at the Companys Annual General Meeting and endeavours to their area of responsibility based on formal management information and interaction with colleagues, customers, ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination suppliers and other parties.
Committees are available to answer questions.
The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and agreed by the Executive Committee.
A business risk report The Company makes use of its website www.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy and takes account of key internal and external factors.
Risks are and full year results, Company announcements, share price and corporate governance and other investor information.
prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and Accountability discussed by the Audit Committee.
An explanation of the Directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements, their report that the business is a The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed every six months, out of which a revised report is submitted going concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor are set out which identies changes in the risk environment.
Statements by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 52 to 55 and 95 to 96 respectively.
30 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2013 Governance The process was last reviewed by the Synthomer Board of Environmental matters Directors in February 2014.
The nature of the risks identied The maintenance of high standards of environmental as a result of this process during the year primarily relate to together with health and safety protection is central to the matters of an operational and financial nature and the most Companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health significant of those which faced the Group in 2013 are and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the reviewed in the Strategic report.
annual report for a number of years.
The Corporate social responsibility report statement on pages 20 to 23 includes Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, a report on the initiatives the Company has adopted by the nature of the Groups business, always of the utmost regarding sustainable development.
concern and the corporate social responsibility report on pages 20 to 23 reviews the Groups performance in this Social, community and human rights matters connection in 2013.
The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach The processes which are used by the Board either directly to risk identication, covers areas which encompass social or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review and ethical matters.
the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems including in relation to the financial reporting process The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities and the process for preparing consolidated accounts include in which the Groups businesses operate and encourages the following: local engagement by management which includes supporting environmental, health and education initiatives.
a review of the external audit work plan: consideration of reports from management and external The Board is also aware of the reputational and legal risks parties, including the internal and external auditor, on the associated with social and ethical issues and has a Groupsystem of internal financial control and any material control wide code of business conduct on corruption and antiweaknesses: competitive activities, which is available on the Companys a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental website and upon request from the Company Secretary.
performance: The purpose of this code is to ensure that the Groups discussion with management of the actions taken on employees have a clear understanding of the principles that any possible problem areas for the business identied are important in these areas when conducting the Groups by Board members or in the audit report: business.
The application of the code is explained to senior consideration of a consolidated risk management report management at regular intervals and they are charged with setting out the main conclusions from the internal control its communication throughout their businesses supported process: and by internal and external training.
A compliance procedure a biannual report from the internal audit function.
involving annual certication by regional senior management and a procedure for maintaining a register of, and where In addition, the Board: appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, entertainment receives copies of the minutes from all Audit and corporate hospitality operates throughout the Group.
Committee meetings: A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the considers the role of the Group insurance programme: code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
receives regular written and oral reports from management on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk The Groups operating activities are highly regulated in management matters: and all territories and largely carried out in countries that have in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code established legislation on human rights issues.
As such the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness information on human rights issues is not considered to of the Groups system of internal controls.
be necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business.
The Group The Board confirms that a review of the effectiveness of the has nonetheless adopted a policy on equal opportunities, Companys risk management and internal control systems diversity and human rights which is available at was carried out in 2013. www.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
