Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Corporate governance Introduction The Board is committed to the highest standards of thechanges to the Board composition, this has beenthe situation for all of FY13.
corporate governance and in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Board The following changes to the Board have been confirms that the Company has throughout the year announced during the year: Roger Taylor stepped down and as at the date of this Annual Report, complied in July 2012, and Sir Howard Stringer and James Powell withthe provisions set out in the UK Corporate were appointed as Non-Executive Directors with effect Governance Code the Code.
On 4 March 2013, it was announced This section of the Annual Report, together with that Stephen Makin will become an Executive Director theDirectors Report and Directors Remuneration with effect from 31 May 2013, replacing Amy Stirling Report, provides details ofhow the Company has whowill step down.
His biographic details will be made applied the principles and complied with the available at the 2013 AGM, where he will stand for election.
In particular, this section The Chairman and Executive Directors have service summarises the Boards compliance with the five contracts that can be terminated by either the keyprinciples of the Code, namely: leadership, Company or the Director on twelve months notice.
effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have three year periodsof appointment, all of which commenced Board balance and independence from20 January 2010, with the following exceptions: The Board has ten members, six of whom, excluding the Ian West 8 February 2011 : Sir Howard Stringer Chairman, are considered independent Non-Executive 26July2012 : and James Powell 26 July 2012.
These are John Gildersleeve, the Senior these periods end, their appointments become Independent Director, John Allwood, Brent Hoberman, rollinguntil each AGM where they stand for re-election.
Ian West, Sir Howard Stringer and James Powell.
All the independent Directors have a three month Therefore, at least half of the Board excluding the notice period with no compensation for loss Chairman are independent and, notwithstanding of office.
Leadership How the Board operates The Board has reserved certain matters, and delegated others, to the Groups Executive Committee, which comprises Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer, Amy Stirling Chief Financial Officer, David Goldie Group Commercial Director and other senior employees drawn from across the Group.
Reserved matters include approving the Groups strategy, annual budgets and other longer term planning.
Number of meetings attended Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 6 3 6 1 Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Sir Charles Dunstone, Chairman 6 Dido Harding 6 Amy Stirling 6 1 David Goldie 5 2 Roger Taylor 2 1 John Gildersleeve 6 3 6 1 Ian West 6 3 6 1 John Allwood 6 3 Brent Hoberman 6 6 3 Sir Howard Stringer 3 3 4 James Powell 4 1 1 David Goldie was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a prior business commitment.
2 Roger Taylor stepped down as a Director on 26 July 2012.
3 Sir Howard Stringer was appointed on 26 July 2012 and was unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness.
4 James Powell was appointed on 26 July 2012.
He was unable to attend one Audit Committee meeting due to personal reasons.
17 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Corporate governance continued As a result of this performance evaluation the Leadership continued Chairman confirms that each of the Directors As well as the formal meetings during the year, the seekingre-election at theAGM continues to be Board met at other times appropriate for approving effective and has demonstrated theappropriate certain announcements to shareholders.
It is important to the Board that Non-Executive The Senior Independent Director also met with the other Directors have the ability to influence and challenge Non-Executive Directors to assess the Chairmans appropriately.
To this end all Non-Executive Directors effectiveness, taking into account the views of are given a thorough induction to the Group and take Executive Directors.
All Directors receive papers in advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports In line with the Code, an external performance evaluation and members of the Groups executive team are invited ofthe Board will be conducted during FY14.
to present at Board meetings so that the Non-Executive The Company Secretary ensures that the Board Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
ismade aware of new laws, regulations and other The Chairman meets regularly with just the Non-Executive information appropriate to the Group to ensure that Directors prior to every other Board meeting.
This ensures allDirectors continually update their skills, knowledge that any concerns can beraised and discussed outside and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
The Senior Independent Additionally each Director has access to the advice Director also attends these sessions where it is possible, and services of the Company Secretary and also has if required, to discussany matters with the other the ability to take independent external advice if required.
Board Committees The Senior Independent Director also takes responsibility The Board has established five Committees: Audit, for performance evaluation of the Board: succession Remuneration, Nomination, Regulatory Compliance planning for theChairman: and chairing Non-Executive and Television: the first three are as required by the Director only meetings.
Inaddition, he is an alternative Code, the fourth is to ensure the compliance of the point of contact for shareholders inthe event that Group within the regulatory environment in which it normal executive channels are not appropriate.
Details operates, and the fifth is to focus on the Groups work of the Senior Independent Directors role are set out on in relation to its television offering.
Audit Committee It is important to the Group that all Directors understand The Committee currently comprises the following external views of the Group.
To this end regular reports independent Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood are provided to the Board by the Groups Investor Chairman, John Gildersleeve, Ian West and James Relations Director, covering broker reports and the Powell with effect from July 2012.
Roger Taylor output of meetings with significant shareholders.
wasnot a member but attended the Committee by invitation until he stepped down on 26 July 2012.
As stated below, the Board has also delegated certain matters toa number of Board Committees.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board onany significant issues that may have arisen at the Effectiveness Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
Inaddition, the Chairman ofthe Committee is happy Performance evaluation and continued development tomake himself available to investorson request.
Each Board member has been subject to an internal During the year, all requirements of theCode in respect performance review during the year, where the balance of the Committee were met.
The work undertaken by of skills, knowledge andexperience of each Director the Committee is described within the following was reviewed.
This was undertaken by each member sections of this report.
ofthe Board completing detailed questionnaires.
The results of these were analysed by the Chairman, Senior The Groups Chief Financial Officer as well as Independent Director and the Board as a whole against representatives of the Companys external auditor the broad criteria of overall Board effectiveness and andother senior executives from Finance, Tax and individual contributions.
Treasury, Legal and Business Assurance also attend these meetings by invitation of the Committee.
The As part of the performance review the ability of each external and internal auditors have direct access to Director, inparticular the Non-Executive Directors, theCommittee during formal meetings and time is todemonstrate the required time commitment to setaside for them to have private discussion with the therole was assessed.
Committee, inthe absence of management attendees.
18 Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 The Committees remit requires it to report to the Effectiveness continued Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it Board Committees continued considers that action or improvement is needed and Audit Committee continued tomake recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
John Allwood remains the member of the Committee with relevant and recent financial experience as The actions taken by the Committee over the last recognised by the Consultative Committee of twelvemonths include: Accountancy bodies, although all members are review of the financial statements in the Annual expected to be financially literate and have an Report 2012 and received reports from the external understanding of: auditor on the same: the principles of, contents of and developments review of the non-audit work undertaken by the infinancial reporting, accounting standards and external auditor during the year and the non-audit statements of recommended practice: fees paid to the auditor: key aspects of the Companys operations: review of the external auditors performance: matters that influence or distort the presentation receipt of reports on internal audit work undertaken, ofaccounts and key financial information: key findings and implementation of actions and the principles of, and developments in, key approval of the internal audit plan for the year: applicable company law and other legislation review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal relevant to the Company: controlsand disclosures made in the Annual Report the role of internal and external auditing and onthismatter: and riskmanagement: review of updates on Group accounting, tax and the regulatory framework of the Companys treasury matters, including going concern, goodwill business: and impairment review and tax.
environmental and social responsibility best The Committee is responsible for the development, reportingpractices.
implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which assigns responsibility During the year, the formal calendar of items considered for monitoring the independence, objectivity and at each Audit Committee meeting withineach annual compliance by the external auditor to the Committee.
cycle embraced the Code requirements to: The policy relating to the provision of non-audit monitor the integrity of the financial statements services by theexternal auditor specifies the types ofthe Company and any formal announcements ofwork from which the external auditor is excluded: relating totheCompanys financial performance, forwhich the external auditor can be engaged without including reviewing significant financial reporting referral to the Committee: and for which a case by case judgements contained in them: decision is required.
In order to safeguard the auditors review the Companys internal financial controls and objectivity and independence, the ratio of non-audit its internal control and risk management systems fees to audit fees is monitored by the Committee.
and to make recommendations to the Board: Anywork proposed in excess of 50% of the audit fee isreferred tothe Committee.
Amounts below this review the Companys arrangements by which arediscussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
employees may raise concerns in confidence: A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from monitor and review the effectiveness of the the external auditor during the period is set out below: Companys internal audit function: 2013 2012 make recommendations to the Board in relation to m m the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Fees payable to the Companys external auditor and to approve its remunerations auditor for theaudit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 and terms ofengagement: Audit of the Group and its review and monitor the external auditors subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.6 independence and objectivity and the Audit services provided effectivenessof the audit process, taking to all Group companies 0.5 0.7 intoconsideration relevant UK professional Taxation and other services 0.1 0.3 andregulatory requirements: and Total Group auditors review the Companys policy on the engagement of remuneration 0.6 1.0 the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
19 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness continued Accountability Board Committees continued Nomination Committee Audit Committee continued During the year the Committee comprised the following In the current year, the Group incurred non-audit fees Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, of 53,000.
Fees relating to tax services of 39,000 Roger Taylor until 26 July 2012, when he stepped down principally comprised technical advice associated with and was replaced by John Allwood and Ian West.
relevant UK and international fiscal lawand regulations.
The Committee is responsible for succession Other fees of 14,000 mainly represented advice for planningat Board level, overseeing the selection corporate restructure projects and HR consultancy.
andappointment of Directors, regularly reviewing Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related thestructure, size and composition of the Board and work, theCommittee has satisfied itself that the making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists services undertaken during the year did not prejudice inevaluating the commitments of individual Directors the external auditors independence.
and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and onthe Board.
considered reports on risk and business assurance The Committee has overseen the appointment of onthe status of the Groups risk management systems, SirHoward Stringer and James Powell as Non-Executive findings from the internal audit function concerning Directors and also the appointment of Stephen Makin as internal controls, and reports on the status and anExecutive Director and Chief Financial Officer with recommended necessary actions for the remedying effect from 31May 2013, when Amy Stirling will stand ofany significant failings or weaknesses in internal down as an Executive Director and Chief Financial controls identified by the internal or external auditor.
All will stand for election at the 2013 AGM.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board Boardfollowing each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are The Committees terms of reference, which are available available on request from the Company Secretary on request from the Company Secretary and are published andare published on the Groups website on the Groups website www.
In light of the assessments and review undertaken, Regulatory Compliance Committee theCommittee recommended to the Board that The members of this Committee are John Gildersleeve Deloitte LLP be retained as the auditor of the Company.
Chairman, Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer, This recommendation wasendorsed by the Board.
David Goldie Group Commercial Director and Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue TimMorris Company Secretary.
in office as auditor andaresolution to re-appoint Other senior executives of the Group attend by Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board Remuneration with visibility of how the Group remains compliant with Remuneration Committee those regulations affecting its businesses from time The Committee currently comprises the following totime.
Its members therefore include those senior independent Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve executives who are operationally responsible for Chairman, Brent Hoberman, Ian West and Sir Howard implementing permanent changes necessary to Stringer with effect from July 2012.
Roger Taylor ensure the Group remains compliant.
Such members are accountable to the Committee and the Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
Other Directors including the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary, the Group Human Resources This Committee meets at least four times a year and Director and advisors attended by invitation of the reports to the Board accordingly.
A detailed description of the Committees operates a weekly Compliance Committee made up of remit and work during the period is contained in the those senior executives including the Chief Executive Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 28.
Officer responsible for all key areas of compliance across the Group and is chaired by the Company The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board Secretary.
Targets set at these meetings are monitored following each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website www.
20 Directors report: Overview Directors report: Performance review Directors report: Governance Financial statements Other information TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual report 2013 eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Accountability continued objectives.
They can onlyprovide reasonable and not Television Committee absolute assurance against material errors, losses, The Board has established a Committee, which is delegated fraud or breaches of lawand regulations.
with managing the Groups television proposition.
The Board retains strategic decision making capacity in The Board has conducted an annual review of the relation totelevision.
The Committee is chaired byIan effectiveness of the systems of risk management and West and its members are drawn from the Executive internal control in operation during the year and up to Directors and other senior executives of theGroup.
the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
This was Terms of reference for the Committee are available approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The from the Company Secretary on request.
Audit Committee also adopts an internal audit charter each year in accordance with international internal Risk management and internal control auditing standards.
The Company has established a risk management programme that assists management throughout the This is supported by the Business Assurance and Company to identify, assess and mitigate business, Internal Audit function through an ongoing process financial, operational and compliance risks.
The Board foridentifying, evaluating and managing the risks views management of risk as integral to good business facedby the Group.
The programme is designed to support managements decision making and to improve the Relations with shareholders reliability of business performance.
The Board believes it is important to explain business To ensure that all parts of the Group have a good developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders and to understand any shareholder understanding of risk, members of this team have conducted risk workshops and reviews within each concerns.
Theprincipal communication media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases ofthe main functions in the past year, culminating in anassessment of key business risks by the Executive including results announcements and Company publications.
In all such communications, care is taken Directors and key management.
These risk assessments have been wide-ranging, covering risks arising from to ensure that no price sensitive information is released.
theregulatory environment, strategy, counterparties The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer andorganisational change associated with major have lead responsibility for investor relations.
Therisk management process operates supported by a dedicated Investor Relations Director throughout the Group, being applied equally to the who, amongst other matters, organises presentations main business units and corporate functions.
A risk for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full report and update is provided at each Board meeting.
programme of regular meetings and dialogue with major institutional shareholders, fund managers, The output of each assessment is a list of key strategic, analysts, retail brokers and credit investors, upon financial, operational and compliance risks.
Associated which the Chairman ensures that the Board receives action plans and control to mitigate identified risks are regular updates at Board meetings.
TheBoard also put in place where this is possible and to the extent receives periodic reports on investors views ofthe considered appropriate by the Board taking account performance of the Company.
All the Non-Executive ofcosts and benefits.
Changes in the status of the key Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior risks and updates on mitigation are reported regularly Independent Director, are available to meet with major at each Board meeting.
shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The The Directors have overall responsibility for the Company plans also to communicate with shareholders Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing through the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an their effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive account of the progress of the business over the last management the responsibility for designing, operating year, andareview of current issues, and provides the and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based opportunity forshareholders to ask questions.
on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and include the risk management processes The Companys AGM provides all shareholders withtheopportunity to vote on the resolutions put set out above.
toshareholders whether personally or by proxy.
The systems of internal control were in place throughout Information relating to votes cast will, following the period and up to the date of approval of the Annual theAGM, be available on the Companys website Report.
The effectiveness of these systems is periodically www.
reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with Further financial and business information is available the revised guidance inthe Turnbull Report.
These on the Groups website www.
systems are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than 21
