Governance Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee Report Number of agreed specifications for two new nonDirectors as at Dear Shareholder Number of meetings executive directors, one who could 31 March 2013 meetings attended strengthen the Boards understanding Along with the usual matters we review, Sir Peter Gershon of the Chinese market and one who such as diversity and the performance Committee Chairman 6 6 would also serve on the Remuneration of members of the Executive Committee, Javed Ahmed 6 6 Committee.
The Committee agreed to we focused on two key areas during the Liz Airey 6 6 retain two external search consultants to year: Board composition and executive William Camp 6 4 focus on one role apiece, given the nature succession planning.
Douglas Hurt 6 4 of the two specifications.
Egon Zehnder 1 During the year, we recommended Virginia Kamsky 2 2 and KornFerry Whitehead Mann were the appointment of two new directors.
Both Details of our process are set out below.
Dr Ajai Puri 6 6 organisations have a good understanding of the Groups business: Egon Zehnder Robert Walker 6 6 We also addressed a key action arising assists in the indentification of individuals Former directors from the 2012 Board effectiveness review, 2 to fill other senior executive roles and namely executive succession planning Evert Henkes 4 4 KornFerry Whitehead Mann assists the and we also enhanced our processes 1 Joined the Board on 1 December 2012.
Group with talent management activities.
relating to succession planning for 2 Ceased to be a director on 30 November 2012.
In line with the Boards stated policy, both key non-executive Board roles, in are signatories to the Executive Search particular the timelines for agreeing The Committee has a formal calendar of Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct.
Both successors for the chairmanship items for consideration at each meeting consultancies then prepared a long list of the Boards Committees.
and meets at least twice a year.
comprising a diverse range of potential During the year, I led a review of the candidates meeting the specification.
effectiveness of the Committee which Main responsibilities of the The search consultants and the Chairman indicated that the Committee was then identified a subset of this long list to Nominations Committee functioning effectively, and the rolling meet with the Chairman.
Following these The main responsibilities of the programme of items for consideration initial interviews, the Chairman Committee include: was modified in light of a number of recommended a short list of candidates recommendations made during the Reviewing the size and composition to be interviewed by the Chief Executive review process.
of the Board, including succession and two other members of the Committee.
planning, and the leadership needs Sir Peter Gershon The Committee subsequently discussed of the Group generally: Chairman of the Nominations the results of these interviews and also Recommending candidates for Committee reviewed the candidates anticipated ability appointment as executive and nonto provide the necessary time commitment executive directors and as Company The Nominations Committee comprises to Tate & Lyle.
The Committee Secretary, taking into account the the Chairman of the Company, the Chief recommended that Virginia Kamsky and balance of the Board and the required Executive and all of the non-executive Anne Minto be appointed as additional blend of skills and experience, bearing directors.
Its terms of reference, which are non-executive directors.
This in mind the need for diversity: reviewed annually, are available on the recommendation, together with the Making recommendations on the Companys website, www.
Committee memberships proposed for process for the appointment of both directors, was approved by the Board the Chairman of the Board: and The Committee met six times during the and Virginia Kamsky and Anne Minto joined Reviewing annually the performance year.
Membership of the Committee and the Board on 1 December 2012. of each member of the Group attendance during the year were as follows: Executive Committee and reporting Succession planning on that review to the Remuneration The Committee reviewed succession plans Committee.
for Executive Committee roles and the progress of action plans to address any gaps.
The Committee will continue to Work undertaken during the year review progress regularly.
During the year and up to the date of this Performance evaluation Annual Report, the work undertaken by the The Committee undertook a performance Nominations Committee included: evaluation of each of the members of the Group Executive Committee and reported Board composition its conclusions to the Remuneration Following the review of the Boards Committee.
composition, the Committee drew up and Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 48
