Governance Governance Statement from the Chairman We are committed to strong governance which we believe is the key to maintaining the trust that our investors and customers place in us Sir Peter Gershon Chairman To maximise the potential of this talent, we The Groups innovation pipeline: and Dear Shareholder put in place tailored induction programmes Talent management and succession As Chairman, I am responsible for to help the new non-executive directors planning.
ensuring the Board operates effectively.
contribute effectively as soon as possible Throughout the year, we have continued after joining the Board.
More information on Further information on the Board to develop our practices and change our the recruitment process and the induction effectiveness review is on page 43. focus, reflecting the evolution of the programmes can be found on pages 48 Groups business transformation.
In addition, I continued to hold a short discussion with the non-executive In my statement last year, I explained Having undertaken an  directors collectively both immediately that we had undertaken a review of the review of Board effectiveness in 2011, I led before and after each scheduled Board composition needs of the Board in light the review process again this year.
These sessions help to continue of the Groups strategy and the length of of the process, we agreed key areas of to ensure that the Board operates tenure of our directors.
Dr Ajai Puri joined focus for the Board during the year ending effectively and to provide timely feedback the Board on 1 April 2012 and during the 31 March 2014, being: where appropriate.
year, we undertook further refreshment of the Board, a process which culminated Safety: Sir Peter Gershon with the appointment of two new The performance of the Speciality Food Chairman non-executive directors, Virginia Kamsky Ingredients business unit: 29 May 2013 and Anne Minto, on 1 December 2012.
Strategic initiatives, including acquisition opportunities: I am very pleased that we have been able Customer engagement: to attract strong and diverse talent to the Board over the past 14 months.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 37
