Governance Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Report The Chief Financial Officer, VP Group Audit Dear Shareholder Main responsibilities of the and Assurance, Group VP Finance and AuditCommittee Control, Executive VP General Counsel During the year, in addition to our usual The main responsibilities of the and representatives of the external auditors matters, including the financial results Committee include: are normally invited to attend each meeting.
for the full year, half year and the interim The Chairman of the Board and Chief management statements, applicable Overseeing the Groups financial Executive also attend meetings of the accounting policies and going concern reporting process and monitoring the Committee by invitation.
In addition, the assumptions, we continued with our integrity of the financial statements Committee seeks to further enhance its practice of conducting in-depth reviews and formal announcements relating exposure to the business through its of key topics.
The key topics we to the Groups financial performance: programme of key topics for review, which reviewed included risk management, Reviewing significant financial reporting involves operational and other key senior controls in the Speciality Food issues and accounting policies and managers presenting to the Committee.
Ingredients business unit and Group disclosures in financial reports: financial control standards.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the The minutes of each meeting are circulated Groups internal control procedures Our policy on auditor independence to the Board.
The VP Group Audit and and risk management systems: states that the lead engagement partner Assurance and the external auditors have Reviewing the effectiveness of the is required to rotate after a term of five direct access to, and meet regularly with, internal audit function: years.
The current lead engagement the Chairman of the Committee outside Overseeing the Groups relationship partner, Paul Cragg, will reach the end formal Committee meetings.
with the external auditors including of his five-year term at the forthcoming the level of fees: AGM.
In the year, the Committee The Committee maintains a formal Reviewing and monitoring the oversaw a process during which a calendar of items for consideration at each external auditors independence number of potential successors were meeting and within the annual audit cycle and objectivity and the effectiveness considered and then endorsed the to ensure that its work is in line with the of the audit process: and appointment of a new lead engagement requirements of the Code.
Making recommendations to the Board partner, John Waters.
A robust transition on the appointment or reappointment programme has been agreed and as part Independence of the external of the Groups external auditors.
of this, John has attended Committee auditors meetings since autumn 2012.
The Groups external auditors are I also led a review of the Committees  LLP PwC The Committee met five times during the effectiveness which concluded that the and the Committee operates a policy year.
Membership of the Committee and Committee was operating effectively to safeguard their objectivity and attendance during the year were as follows: and identified some areas for increased independence.
This policy sets out certain Number of focus.
As part of this process, we disclosure requirements by the external Directors as at Number of meetings agreed the topics for our programme 31 March 2013 meetings attended auditors to the Committee: restrictions on of detailed reviews including a review the employment of the external auditors Liz Airey of the operation of the global Shared former employees: partner rotation: and Committee Chairman 5 5 Service Centre in dz, Poland and IT procedures for the approval of non-auditDouglas Hurt 5 5 1 security.
We also updated the terms of related services provided by the external Anne Minto 2 2 reference to reflect changes in practice auditors.
During the year, the Committee Former directors at Tate & Lyle and the UK corporate reviewed the processes that the external 2 Evert Henkes 3 3 governance landscape.
auditors have in place to safeguard their 1 Joined the Board and the Audit Committee on independence and also received a letter Liz Airey 1 December 2012. from them confirming that, in their opinion, Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 Ceased to be a director and a member of the Audit they remained independent.
All the Committee members have extensive The Committee closely monitors the level The Audit Committee comprises three management experience in large international of auditand non-audit-related services non-executive directors, and oversees organisations.
It is a requirement of the they provide to the Group.
Non audit the Groups financial reporting and internal Code that at least one Committee member related services are normally limited to controls and provides a formal reporting has recent and relevant financial experience.
assignments that are closely related to the link with the external auditors.
Its terms Two of our members meet this requirement: annual audit or where the work is of such of reference, which are reviewed annually, Liz Airey was an investment banker and a nature that a detailed understanding of are available on the Companys website, former finance director of Monument Oil the Group is necessary.
and Gas plc and Douglas Hurt is Finance engagement of the external auditors to Director at IMI plc.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 46 Governance Governance supply non-audit-related services sets out and appropriate at this stage of the recommended to the Board that PwC these arrangements.
In the case of Whitefox, the continue to act as auditors to the Group.
Group has received an offer to settle in PwC have indicated their willingness to The policy on auditor independence was its favour and consequently the broughtcontinue in office, and a resolution that reviewed and updated during the year.
forward provisions have been released.
they be reappointed will be proposed at The Committee also reviewed and The Committee reviewed the the AGM.
The Committee has discussed approved a number of proposals falling assumptions advised by the Groups the provisions of the September 2012 under the remit of this policy including the external actuary which have driven an iteration of the Code which applies to the engagement of PwC in respect of the increase in the pension and healthcare Companys next reporting period and review of certain disclosures contained in net liability and accepted these to be includes a provision to tender the external the statement on Corporate Responsibility reasonable.
The Committee also audit at least once every ten years, and on page 33 and the appointment of a reviewed and agreed managements intends to comply with this provision.
proposed method of accounting for the The Committee is mindful of the FRCs November 2012 partial buy-in of the UK commentary regarding the timing of A breakdown of the fees paid to the Group defined benefit scheme, relying tender processes and has already had external auditors in respect of auditand on calculations performed by the initial discussions on the likely timing non-audit-related work is included in Note8 external actuary.
The total amount The value of intangible assets, goodwill, paid in respect of the Group audit, audit of and tangible assets were reviewed Internal audit subsidiaries and the half-year review was against managements expectation of The Committee reviewed the remit, 1.9 million and 0.3 million was paid in future performance of the underlying organisation, annual plan and resources respect of non-audit-related services.
business units, including discussion of of the internal audit function and undertook the discount rates used, and forecast a review of its effectiveness.
The review assumptions and sensitivities.
concluded that the function continued to Work undertaken during the year The Committee was satisfied that strengthen and make a significant In addition to the activities outlined in the no impairment charges, or reversal contribution to the internal governance statement from the Committee Chairman, of impairments, were required.
A number of areas for during the year and up to the date of this The key judgements made in estimating improvement in processes were identified Annual Report, the work undertaken by the Groups tax charge including and following the review, the internal audit the Committee fell under four main areas: provisions relating to certain territories charter was revised to reflect the functions financial reporting, oversight of the external where the Committee reviewed the responsibilities to the Corporate auditors, oversight of the internal audit status of ongoing discussions with the Responsibility Committee.
function and internal control and risk tax authorities and supported management.
The Committees work in managements position as reasonable.
Internal control and risk management each of these areas is described below.
The Committee continued to receive and External audit consider regular reports from management Financial reporting PwC or its predecessor firms has been and the VP Group Audit and Assurance At each of its meetings during the year the Companys auditors since 1989. on the effectiveness of the Groups risk the Audit Committee reviewed accounting Following the conclusion of the audit for the management system.
The reports from papers prepared by management and year ended 31 March 2012, the Committee the latter included the findings from reviews determined, with the support of the conducted an internal review of the of internal financial controls and actions external auditor, the appropriateness effectiveness of the auditors the last to address any weaknesses in controls.
of accounting policies, estimates, and external review having been undertaken Throughout the year, the Committee judgements.
The main areas of focus in 2010.
As part of the process, the focused in particular on the impact of the are listed below: Committee reviewed the auditors implementation of a new IS IT platform performance against criteria set at the in Europe and associated changes to the Managements judgement of the level of start of the audit, together with feedback control environment together with any provisions required in respect of ongoing from management and the Public Report potential impact on financial reporting litigation, in particular claims by American on the 2011 12 Inspection of processes.
It also reviewed the Group Sugar Holdings ASR relating to the  LLP issued by assurance map outlining the key risks and sale of the EU Sugars business, and by the FRC in June 2012, and concluded that associated assurance processes.
The Whitefox Technologies Limited in respect the external audit process was operating Committee also reviewed the output from of the ongoing commercial dispute.
effectively and PwC continued to provide a the annual review of the effectiveness of In the case of EU Sugars, based on good service to Tate & Lyle: the Committee internal financial reporting controls and legal counsels assessment of formal subsequently agreed that there was no then reported to the Board on this review.
proceedings served by ASR, the need to undertake a tender at present.
Committee was satisfied that Accordingly the Committee has managements provision is reasonable Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 47
