Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Audit Committee Report We assist the Board in continually seeking to further strengthen all elements of the Groups governance framework.
The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the Groups In 2013 the Company has: internal control framework, internal audit process, risk management, financial reporting practices and external audit process.
Concluded the review of the effectiveness of the project management I am pleased to be able to take this opportunity as Chairman of the Audit Committee to and the impact on the overall control summarise the ongoing objectives and responsibilities of the Committee: the work that has environment of the business, of the been carried out during 2013: and the priorities established for 2014. implementation of the One Business, Following a review in December 2013, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee were One Solution, Enterprise Resource amended to reflect its three key new responsibilities introduced by the UK Corporate Planning 1B1S ERP system, across Governance Code Code, namely: the UK business.
to develop suitable processes to enable the Committee to advise the Board that the Ensured common systems are Annual Report and Accounts meets the requirements of Code provision C. 1 to provide a embedded across the UK business fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects: in order to support and gain maximum to review significant issues considered in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts: and benefits from the completed 1B1S ERP system.
to undertake an assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Introduced the new Internal Audit A key requirement of the Audit Committee remains that it should evaluate its performance approach to auditing in the new 1B1S ERP against its key objectives on an annual basis.
The 2013 performance against objectives was environment across the UK business.
formally assessed at the meeting of 24 February 2014.
Developed suitable processes to meet During 2013 the Audit Committee: the requirements of the UK Corporate satisfied itself that the implementation of the new 1B1S ERP system had been successfully Governance Code provision C. 1.1. concluded throughout the UK business and that the Internal Audit approach had been appropriately amended to reflect the new operating regime: and Priorities for 2014 are to: introduced and monitored processes to meet its three key new responsibilities set out above.
Embed the 1B1S ERP processes and A key priority for 2014 is to ensure that the 1B1S ERP system is delivering maximum benefit review new governance structures for IT.
together with a process of continuous improvement supported by a targeted Internal Audit approach to auditing in the new environment.
Enhance business reporting including the utilisation of 1B1S data.
The Committee will continue to focus on ensuring that all the relevant codes and regulations are complied with to ensure that the business is operating in a controlled and managed environment.
Focus on the process areas to optimise value in an improving market.
Yours sincerely Review processes designed to meet the new governance responsibilities of the Committee.
Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 55 Audit Committee Report continued Audit Committee In addition, at each meeting, the Committee also reviewed its other The Audit Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the areas of responsibility, including: Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required by the internal control framework: the Code.
The Board has determined that Rob Rowley, who currently the internal audit process: chairs the Audit Committee at moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, proper investigation of all incidents of whistle blowing: has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
progress on embedding systems and processes necessary to The Chairman of the Company and other Non Executive Directors, the Executive Directors, Head of Internal Audit and other senior executives maximise the benefits of the new 1B1S ERP system: attend Committee meetings by invitation.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the checking for any incidences of fraud, actual, alleged or precautionary, external auditor, is also invited to attend Committee meetings.
The and ensuring proper controls and a response plan are in place: and Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte during financial reporting practices.
at least two Committee meetings per annum, which normally take place The Audit Committee has been in constructive dialogue with the around the time of the full and half-year financial statements, in order to Financial Reporting Council FRC through the current and prior year, discuss any matters which the auditors may wish to raise without any following their review of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Executive Directors other than the Secretary being present.
FRC identified certain areas, including the presentation and disclosure During the year, the Committee was strengthened by the appointment of profits arising on the realisation of impaired inventory, where they of Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, as the fourth believed the Companys reporting and disclosure could be improved.
member with effect from 25 February 2013.
These improvements were agreed with the FRC and have been reflected in the 2012 and 2013 annual reports.
Consequently, the The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
Details of FRC has concluded its review.
the attendance of each Director are set out in the table on page 53.
The meetings around the full and half-year results are typically also attended In carrying out these activities, the Committee places reliance on by the Non Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee.
regular reports from executive management, Internal Audit and the external auditors.
In monitoring the financial reporting practices, the At these meetings, the Committee carried out its remit which Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, areas of judgement, primarily includes: the going concern assumptions and compliance with accounting at its February 2013 meeting, reviewing the final draft 2012 Annual standards and the requirements of the Code.
During the year, the Report and Accounts together with details of risk management Committee reviewed, prior to publication, other statements affecting process and any significant accounting and audit issues thereon: the Group concerning price sensitive information as necessary.
considering issues of materiality and the external auditors report External auditor on the progress of the audit: conducting a formal compliance check: Re-appointment and reviewing the draft Preliminary Announcement of the Groups Deloitte LLP is the Companys external auditor.
Their performance is 2012 results: kept under regular review by the Board and the Audit Committee and, at its July 2013 meeting, reviewing the final draft half-year statement as stated above, the Committee undertook a formal assessment of for 2013 together with details of the risk management process and their performance during their audit of the Companys 2013 results any significant accounting issues thereon: considering issues of and their suitability going forward.
materiality and the external auditors report on its review of that statement: and This review took the form of a checklist and questionnaire issued at its December 2013 meeting, the priorities for 2014: approval of to Directors: executives involved in the detailed stages of the audit process: and a representative sample of employees in regional updates to the Audit Committee framework: the external auditors interim report on the progress of the audit: considering its two new business units which were subject to audit.
The responses were augmented by external feedback on the relative performance of additional responsibilities of monitoring the processes whereby it auditors generally, and from regulatory sources.
A summary of the ensures that the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts meets the findings was prepared by Internal Audit and considered by the Audit requirements of Code provision C. 1, and advising the Board of its Committee at its 24 February 2014 meeting.
assessment of the performance of the external auditor together with a recommendation as to whether their re-appointment should be The outcome of the review was that the Committee recommended to recommended at the 2014 AGM.
the Board, which in turn is recommending to shareholders in Resolution 11 on page 132, that Deloitte be re-appointed at the 2014 AGM.
56 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Tender The Audit Committee fully recognises and supports the importance of A formal competitive tender process was carried out with regard the independence of auditors.
Its review of the auditors performance to the appointment for the 2008 audit, following which Deloitte was during 2013 included non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied selected to continue as external auditor to the Company.
The current that the carrying out of the above work did not, and will not going lead engagement partner is Colin Hudson and 2013 is his fifth and forward, impair the independence of the external auditor.
It also final year in that role.
Under Deloittes partner rotation scheme, his recognises that, from time to time, there is a clear commercial successor, Ed Hanson, was involved in the 2013 external audit, to advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in using the familiarise himself with its scope and detail in preparation for taking Companys auditors.
As a result, mainly, of work carried out relating responsibility for the audit of the Companys 2014 results.
The Code to the pensions merger, the level of non-audit services work was requires that FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit 0.263m in 2013 2012: 0.327m as set out in Note 6 to the Accounts contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The Company also notes on page 98. the guidance issued by the FRC by way of transitional arrangements.
Internal Audit Therefore, having gone out to tender in 2007 2008 the Company The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency intends to defer tendering until completion of Ed Hansons rotation of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, in 2019, but will of course keep the matter under regular review, taking to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor into account the annual performance review to be conducted by the the activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
Committee as well as other relevant factors.
There are no contractual Following each review an Internal Audit report is provided to both restrictions on the Companys selection of its external auditor.
the management responsible for the area reviewed and the Group Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services Management Team GMT.
These reports outline Internal Audits The Audit Committee has a policy on whether to employ the external opinion of the management control framework in place together with auditor to provide services other than audit services.
This policy actions indicating improvements proposed or made as appropriate.
The requires that there should be a competitive tender process except Chief Executive, the GMT and senior management consider the reports in narrowly defined circumstances where it is considered that, based on a regular basis and are responsible for ensuring that improvements on confidentiality, past knowledge and other commercial reasons, are made as agreed.
A database of audit recommendations and there is an advantage in using a single tender procurement procedure.
Follow-up and escalation processes ensure that such improvements are implemented and The Committee has determined that the following assignments should fully embedded in a timely manner.
not be undertaken by the auditors: We belong to and participate in industry-wide forums and other bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records initiatives aimed at combating fraud within the construction industry.
or financial statements: Summaries of all key Internal Audit review and activity and resulting internal audit outsourcing services: reports are provided to the Audit Committee for review and discussion.
the provision of advice on large Information Technology systems: and services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, recruitment The Internal Audit function also reviews proposed related party or remuneration.
transactions, such as purchases by executives from Group companies, to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance are undertaken in accordance with the formal policy in place.
of auditor independence and objectivity.
The most recent independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit Non-audit services in 2013 predominantly related to work undertaken function was carried out on behalf of the Audit Committee during 2011 as a result of Deloittes role as auditors, or work resultant from by PwC and its finding was that Internal Audit is operating effectively.
knowledge and experience gained as part of the role.
Other assurance services related to advisory services relating to pension liability A number of initiatives were progressed during 2013 to ensure the management consultation.
Tax services included advisory services Internal Audit function continues to meet both current best practice for Taylor Wimpey plc and its subsidiaries.
and the evolving needs of the Group.
The Internal Audit Charter, which codifies the aims, modus operandi and outputs of Internal Audit, was reviewed by the Committee for ongoing appropriateness.
Following this assessment of control and process risk, particularly in relation to revised systems and processes associated with the new 1B1S ERP system now used throughout the UK Group, and how that assessment influences Internal Audit review priorities, the Charter was updated and enhanced by the Committee to ensure its continued alignment with the Groups risk management framework.
co. uk 57 Audit Committee Report continued The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Chairman of the In compliance with the Code, the Board regularly reviews the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing and the other Executive Directors.
a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, Risk management and internal control compliance and assurance controls which include risk management.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk management and internal control applying principle C. 2 of the Code.
The Board is This process is based principally on reviewing reports from management responsible for the effectiveness of the system of internal control, which to consider whether significant risks are correctly managed and has been designed and implemented to meet the requirements of the controlled as part of managing the Groups operations.
The Board is Group and the risks it encounters.
assisted in the assessment of risks by the Audit Committees review of risk management procedures for appropriateness and effectiveness Internal control is managed according to a framework which consists see Audit Committee remit on page 53.
Throughout 2013 and into of clearly defined processes and objectives which are assigned to 2014, the Audit Committee continued to assess the Groups risk individuals.
This framework defines the way the Company operates management and internal control framework by reviewing the business and how it is managed on a day-to-day basis.
In the UK Group this change issues and Internal Audit activities across the Group.
is achieved through an established Operating Framework supported by functional manuals covering the main disciplines.
Compliance At its half-year and year-end meetings the Board reviewed the risk profile of the Group and the mitigating factors identified with the with policies, processes and procedures is required and monitored to ensure business effectiveness and efficiency.
Every employee is significant risks.
At the year-end meeting in February 2014 following the annual review by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal required to comply with Group policies and specific responsibilities and accountabilities are identified at each process level, yet the governance controls and a formal half-year assessment of risk, which included a detailed risk assessment by the GMT, the Board completed its annual framework also supports and encourages individual and team initiatives.
The control framework in place establishes procedures to identify, assessment of risks for the year end 31 December 2013.
The key risks affecting the Group were identified and agreed with the Board together evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
These procedures define and limit the nature and extent of the significant risks with processes for their elimination or mitigation and actions required to reduce the likelihood of each risk to the Company and the Group.
the Board is willing to take in achieving the Companys strategic objectives.
They seek to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure A detailed review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and Group is set out in the Strategic Report.
See Principal Risks and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group Whistleblowing to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The risk management framework The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process consists of risk registers at all organisational levels which detail the risks that includes an externally facilitated hotline through which any faced by the Group, its operating companies and the central service person, including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, teams.
The registers identify key operational and financial risks while raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other strategic risks are identified as part of the business planning process, operational matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the work although it is expected that strategic risks will be included on risk place.
All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the Head of Internal registers.
The risk registers take into account the significance of Audit, Group Health and Safety Director where appropriate, Group environmental, social and governance matters of the Company Human Resources Director and or the Secretary depending on the and use a standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
nature and seriousness of the issue.
The Chief Executive is apprised This methodology requires each risk identified to be assessed and of all allegations and review conclusions.
ranked according to a risk matrix which accounts for the likelihood Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the Audit and impact of each risk.
The risks identified are assessed for potential Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit Committee effect on the Companys short and long term value.
The completion agenda, which allows the Committee to regularly review the adequacy of risk registers is iterative and refreshed on an ongoing basis.
The risk of the policy in line with its requirement to do so under the Code.
The registers feed into a formal half-yearly risk assessment that identifies the process is regularly reviewed and the Committee is satisfied that it principal risks see pages 24 to 25 and allows the Board to re-evaluate remains effective.
the identified strategic risks facing the Group.
The Board oversees the risk and control framework of the Group and the Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any necessary improvements with the support of the GMT.
The Board conducts formal risk reviews half-yearly, consistent with the Code, and the GMT conducts a more detailed review as part of the business planning process.
58 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 To ensure the implementation of the ERP system did not have Code provision C. 1 a material impact on the UK control environment.
The Board has responsibility under Code provision C. 1 for preparing the The Audit Committee reviewed the project management and progress Companys Annual Report and Accounts: for ensuring that it presents of the ERP throughout the implementation cycle.
In addition, the a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys Internal Audit team completed Steady State Process reviews which position and prospects: and that it provides the information necessary assessed the progress of each required business unit in reaching a for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business defined process environment and reported their findings back to the model and strategy.
No material issues were found.
The Audit Committee will continue to assess the impact of the ERP Process implementation on the control environment during 2014.
The review of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts took the form of a detailed assessment of the collaborative process of As part of the year-end process the Audit Committee received updates drafting them, which involves the Companys Investor Relations: on judgemental areas, specifically Pensions accounting, and other Finance: Company Secretary: and Internal Audit Departments, with financial matters including Tax and International Accounting Standards guidance and input from external advisers.
It ensured that there is a updates which were considered when reviewing the 2013 Annual clear and unified link between this Annual Report and Accounts and Report and Accounts.
the Companys other external reporting, and between the three main Conclusion sections of the Annual Report and Accounts the Strategic Report: the A summary of the process and of the Committees findings, was Governance Reports: and the Accounts.
considered by the Board at its meeting on 24 February 2014.
In particular, the Committee: The outcome of that review was that the Committee confirmed to the reviewed all material matters, as reported elsewhere in this Board that the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts met the requirements Annual Report: of Code provision C. 1, and the Boards formal statement to that effect, ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys performance to meet the requirements of the Code, is set out on page 54. in the reporting year, as described on pages 10 to 39: Going concern ensured that it correctly reflected the Companys business model, The UK market has improved, with better mortgage availability and as described on pages 14 to 22: consumer confidence, and the Group has continued to be profitable in ensured that it correctly described the Companys strategy, as the current year and has further strengthened its balance sheet through described on pages 14 to 22: the reduction of debt, including the redemption of the outstanding ensured that it presented a consistent message throughout: and Senior Notes and the reduction of the pension deficit.
considered whether it presented the information in a clear and The Group has prepared forecasts, including certain sensitivities, taking concise manner, illustrated by appropriate KPIs, to facilitate into account the principal risks identified on pages 24 to 25.
These shareholders access to relevant information.
forecasts indicate that the Group has sufficient financial capacity to Significant items continue for at least the next 12 months from the date of signing these As part of the above process, the Committee considered the financial statements.
following significant items in connection with the preparation of Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements have been prepared the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts: on a going concern basis.
To ensure the carrying value of inventory is reflective of its fair value and all relevant disclosures are included in the accounts.
The Company carries out a net realisable value assessment for inventory every six months, the process and results of which are discussed by the Audit Committee.
In addition, during the year the Audit Committee had dialogue with the Financial Reporting Council FRC following their review of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts, with a view to improving and enhancing certain aspects of Inventory disclosure which have been reflected in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
