Corporate Governance The Board takes corporate governance very seriously.
This report explains the processes in place for the delivery of long term success, compliance and shareholder value.
I am very pleased to be able to take this opportunity again to make a personal statement on In 2013 the Company has: the Companys approach to corporate governance.
As mentioned earlier in this Annual Report, the Board takes corporate governance very seriously and this has been demonstrated over Fully reported in compliance with the UK many years, with full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and its predecessor Corporate Governance Code the Code, versions.
To demonstrate the Boards proactive approach to corporate governance, in October, which applies to 2013 reporting and which the Board set aside time in order to receive detailed and specific presentations from external the Company substantially introduced specialists on corporate governance including recent developments, which all Directors found early, in its 2012 reporting last year.
Reflected the new legal requirements in This report on Corporate Governance therefore sets out and explains in clear terms the the Companys remuneration reporting, processes in place which are essential for the delivery of long term success, whilst ensuring which, again, were substantially adopted that we comply with all applicable laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the by the Company, early, in its 2012 reporting requirements of our shareholders and their representative bodies.
The Board believes that and which now apply fully for 2013. good governance should be focused not only on how the Board itself operates but also Included in its Notice of AGM two how all of our businesses operate.
resolutions relating to Remuneration As you will see from the list of key activities undertaken by the Board in the area of governance a Policy vote, which is binding on the during 2013, it was a very busy year, with full implementation of the 2012 UK Governance Company, and an advisory vote on the Code the Code and the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills BIS remuneration implementation of the Policy during the year.
reporting requirements, together with significant developments addressed later in this report Introduced three additional areas of and in the Audit Committee Report on page 55.
These developments all support good compliance dealt with by the Audit governance and additionally aim to assist shareholders understanding of the Companys Committee, covering: strategy and the business model that it has designed to achieve it.
The Board welcomes these developments: considers that they are beneficial for the Company and its shareholders: Confirmation that the Annual Report and supports them wholeheartedly.
and Accounts meets the requirements of the Code provision C. 1: This report also explains what your Board of Directors actually does and describes how it is responsible for setting the culture and values of the Company, ensuring that the Company is Significant issues addressed during the run in the best interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, and how it interacts with its preparation of the Annual Report and shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic goals and performance against them.
From Accounts, and: a governance perspective it is not just a case of what is done but also, and just as importantly, An assessment of the external how it is done therefore, we try and avoid a simple box ticking approach, preferring our auditors performance and the factors governance to be something that is embedded in our processes and decision making.
leading to the recommendation for their A key part of my role as Chairman of the Board is to ensure that the Board retains an appropriate re-appointment at the 2014 AGM.
level of independence in order to allow the Independent Non Executive Directors to challenge Revised the front section of the Annual the Executive Directors constructively whilst also supporting them to implement the strategy and Report and Accounts into a Strategic run the business effectively.
Another key part of my role is to ensure that the Board has the right Report designed to highlight the key blend of skill, independence and knowledge and this is something that is kept under regular issues for shareholders and make it review in conjunction with the Nomination Committee.
easier to understand the Companys strategy and business model.
Introduced greater Carbon reporting, including details of the Companys Greenhouse Gas emissions.
44 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 As a Board we regularly review health and safety, our strategy, Our Board and Committee structure risks, the market, operational matters, human resources, diversity, corporate responsibility, our financial position and performance, governance and legal matters and shareholder-related matters including our share register.
This is done through reports submitted by, and discussions with, the Executive Directors and through other reports and presentations by our senior management.
The Board and individual Directors also undertake regular visits to our regional businesses and also to their development sites.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board evaluation Committee Committee Committee The 2013 Board evaluation was conducted internally by myself and the Company Secretary.
The evaluation is an important part of the corporate governance framework and is always taken very seriously, and certainly course recognise that we still have more work to do in order to fulfil our no less so when it is facilitated internally.
The Code requires the evaluation overall diversity ambitions.
During 2013, the Company worked with an to be carried out via external facilitation once every three years and we external adviser in order to review, develop, improve and implement will therefore undertake this exercise externally in 2014, and will report diversity and inclusion initiatives.
on its outcome in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board consists of nine Directors, two of whom are women 22%, This years evaluation confirmed that the Board believes that it is and we will aspire to maintain at least this level of diversity going forward, operating effectively and continues to work well as a unit.
In addition, consistent with our past practice, the Code and our response to Lord and most importantly, there is good constructive challenge and debate Davies of Abersochs report on Women on Boards in 2011 Davies around the table.
The evaluation confirmed the Boards view that Report.
During 2014, after Tony Reading has stood down as explained succession has been effectively managed, with seven of the ten Board below, the percentage of women on the Board will increase to 25%.
positions at the time of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts having The Group Management Team consists of eight executives, two of been refreshed, including both Executive and Non Executive Directors.
I am confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, expertise and professionalism to continue to deliver strong governance whilst Appointments and succession allowing the Executive Directors to implement and deliver the strategy We announced on 26 February 2014 that Tony Reading would be set out on pages 14 to 15. stepping down from the Board immediately following the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2014 AGM, The main action items coming out of the 2013 evaluation related broadly coinciding with the successful conclusion of his third three-year to maintaining an ongoing focus on succession planning throughout term of office.
We also announced that Margaret Ford will succeed Taylor Wimpey, improved reporting to the Board on certain key matters, Tony as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from that time.
to continue to drive the diversity agenda forward and giving the Board more exposure to senior and upcoming management.
I believe that the balance of the Board, going forward from the AGM, with myself as Chairman, three Executive Directors and Each of these key areas will remain firmly on the Boards agenda during four Independent Non Executive Directors, will continue to provide 2014.
More detail, including the ways in which the findings of the 2012 the right blend of experience, expertise and challenge to ensure review were addressed during the year, and the process for the 2013 good governance.
evaluation, is set out on pages 50 to 51.
At the AGM, all Directors with the exception of Tony Reading will again Diversity be subject to election or re-election, as appropriate, by shareholders Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance in accordance with the Code.
Biographical details of each Director agenda during 2013.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained a key can be found on pages 42 to 43. priority for the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case during 2014.
Our ambitions and views on diversity are set out in our Diversity Board Committees Policy which can be found on page 52 and on the Companys website: The Board has three Committees: Nomination, Remuneration and www.
Audit, whose activities are described below: Although the Board will continue to appoint on merit, we recognise that The Nomination Committee has been closely involved during 2013 boards will generally perform better when they include top quality people in reviewing succession planning, to achieve our strategic aim of from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
Diversity will continue to attracting, developing and retaining the best quality people at all levels be a key consideration when contemplating the composition and of the Company, and to improve our talent management.
This remains refreshing of the Board and indeed our senior and wider management.
With regard to gender, as at 31 December 2013, approximately 31% of a key priority for further development during 2014.
Additional reporting on its activities, in line with the Code, is set out on page 51. our employees were female.
While we are making progress, we of Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 45 Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee has completed the implementation of Overall, I believe your Board is effective and working well, and I am the BIS requirements, a substantial proportion of which were introduced pleased with the Boards activity with regard to corporate governance, by the Company last year in the interests of good governance, and are but we continually look for ways to learn and improve.
fully explained in the Remuneration Report on page 60.
These include Statement of compliance an additional resolution to be proposed at the 2014 AGM, described For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company complied in the notes on pages 136 to 139, giving shareholders an opportunity with all the provisions of the Code: the BIS Directors Remuneration to vote on a binding remuneration policy for the Company, in addition Reporting Regulations and Narrative Reporting Regulations: and to an advisory vote on its implementation during 2013 and proposals the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules on Audit for 2014.
The Committee has engaged with major shareholders and Committees and Corporate Governance Statements DTR 7. their representative bodies on key remuneration matters and very much These regulations are publicly available at: values and welcomes their input.
the Code can be found at www.
uk: The Audit Committee has implemented a wide variety of new governance the BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations and developments set out in the Code, details of which are set out in the Narrative Reporting Regulations can be found at www.
uk, and: Audit Committee Report on pages 55 to 59.
It has established processes the Disclosure and Transparency Rules on Audit Committees to enable it to satisfy and recommend to the Board that the information and Corporate Governance Statements DTR 7 can be found presented to shareholders in this Report and Accounts is, as a whole, at www.
info a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of our position and prospects see page 59.
It reviewed the performance of the external Yours sincerely auditor, Deloitte LLP, before recommending to the Board that a resolution be proposed for their re-appointment at the AGM see page 56.
A very important role of the Committee relates to risk management and internal controls so that the Company can closely monitor its exposure to risks which could impact upon the future prospects of the Company and achievement of its strategic objectives see page 58.
The Committee has, during the year, continued to focus closely on this key area.
As ever, I very much look forward to meeting with shareholders at the Kevin Beeston AGM on 17 April 2014 and, as always, along with all of your Directors Chairman who will all be present at the AGM, remain available to answer or respond to your questions, concerns and suggestions at any time.
Board visit to Taylor Wimpey East Londons Reflections development in Romford, Essex.
46 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 The Board and its Committees Taylor Wimpey plc Board As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of nine Directors, namely: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five Independent Non Executive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 42 to 43.
On 25 April 2013, Brenda Dean retired from the Board, having served for just over nine years including her time on the Board of George Wimpey, and Margaret Ford was appointed as an Independent Non Executive Director.
Tony Reading has indicated that he will stand down from the Board, immediately Kevin Beeston following the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, as he will have served Chairman nine years, including previously on the Board of George Wimpey.
Upon his retirement, Margaret Ford will succeed him as Chairman Number of meetings in 2013 8 of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors Attendance The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer advice Kevin Beeston and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide experience Chairman 8 in business and from their diverse backgrounds.
They also provide a Pete Redfern constructive challenge, scrutinising the performance of the Executive Chief Executive 8 Directors and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the financial Ryan Mangold information made available both to the Board and to the Companys Group Finance Director 8 shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also play an important part James Jordan in the appointment or removal of Executive Directors and in general Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 8 succession planning for the Board and other top executive positions immediately below Board level.
Rob Rowley Senior Independent Director 8 The Board met on eight occasions during 2013.
Directors make Kate Barker every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee meetings, Independent Non Executive Director 8 as evidenced by the attendance records over several years.
Where, Margaret Ford exceptionally, a Director is unable to attend a meeting, it is Board policy a Independent Non Executive Director 5 that the Chairman and or the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, as soon as possible, brief the Director Mike Hussey fully on the business transacted at the meeting and on any decisions Independent Non Executive Director 8 that have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director are sought Tony Reading ahead of the meeting and conveyed to those attending the meeting Independent Non Executive Director 8 by the Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the Brenda Dean attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings are b Former Director 2 set out in the tables on pages 47, 51 and 53. a appointed 25 April 2013.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic and b resigned 25 April 2013. entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework of strong governance, effective controls and a culture of openness and transparency, which enables opportunities and risks to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board is responsible for defining and setting the Companys values and standards, which it does, amongst other things, through a number of policies and codes of conduct, and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are clearly understood and met.
The Board is led in these respects by the Chairman, who ensures the Board operates correctly, setting its culture and, by extension, that of the Company in its operations and its dealings with all stakeholders.
co. uk 47 Corporate Governance continued As also set out in our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report, the Board The Board took advice during the year from Slaughter and May, is fully committed to providing a safe place in which our employees Bond Dickinson and Deloitte on the details of an Enhanced Transfer and sub-contractors can work, and that our customers can visit, and Value offer made to certain members of one of the Companys pension to high standards of environmental management.
The Board receives schemes and additionally from Slaughter and May on the refinancing detailed reports on health, safety and environmental matters at each which took place on 9 August 2014, and on the proposed merger of Board meeting in respect of the Companys operations in the UK and the Groups two UK pension funds, described in more detail in Note 21 Spain.
A new addition during 2013 was carbon reporting, as required to the Accounts on page 111. by BIS, of which more details are set out on page 26.
Advice was also taken from Deloitte on the significant governance Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken by developments during the year.
the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group Management The Board receives at each meeting a report from J. P. Morgan Team GMT.
The GMT is the most senior executive committee and, in Cazenove Cazenove on the sector and the relative performance addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the Group Finance Director, of the Companys share price.
Cazenove and an independent broker, the Secretary, the Group HR Director, the Land and Planning Director, Redburn Partners LLP, attended the Board during the year in order to the two UK Housing Divisional Chairmen and the Managing Director provide a detailed presentation on the industry, UK stock market and of our Central London Region.
The GMT meets twice each month the wider economy.
including, as a new initiative introduced in 2013, with the six Divisional Managing Directors as a Group Operational Team.
All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times to the highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the Treasury concerning the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Committee, which meets under the chairmanship of the Group Finance Conduct, which sets out the standard for individual dealings both Director, and also comprises the Secretary, one of the two UK Housing internally and externally.
Formal policies have been adopted, which Divisional Chairmen who alternate periodically and the Group Treasurer.
set out the ethical framework within which all Taylor Wimpey companies The key activities of the Treasury Committee are, broadly, to monitor and are required to undertake their business this includes an Antikeep under review the Groups financial risks, financial policies, financial Corruption Policy linked to an annual Bribery Act compliance sign-off.
facilities, covenant compliance and insurance programme.
These policies are available for review on the Companys website The following documents are available for review on the Companys www.
co. uk corporate : Board and Committee balance, diversity, independence schedule of matters specifically reserved for the decision of the Board: and effectiveness It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination and appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are based Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities and on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due which define a programme of activities to support the discharge of regard to the benefits of diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, those responsibilities: and age, ethnicity, experience and thinking.
The Board also continues to policies covering operational, compliance, corporate responsibility recognise its responsibility to comply with the recommendations of and stakeholder matters, which are reviewed whenever necessary the Davies Report and has stated that it will aspire at least to maintain to take account of developments in corporate governance, changes the current level of representation of women on the Board two out in legislation and revised processes.
of nine, representing 22% of Directors, which will become two out All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
of eight, representing 25% of Directors, when Tony Reading stands The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may down from the Board on 17 April 2014. take independent professional advice at the Companys expense The Nomination Committee, which is composed of a majority of where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their Independent Non Executive Directors in line with the Code, oversees responsibilities as Directors.
on behalf of the Board, the identification, assessment and selection of candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria.
Typically, the process of appointment, prior to the decision of the Board, will include the engagement of recruitment consultants, interviews by the candidate with all members of the Board and the taking up of detailed references.
48 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 During the year, Margaret Ford was appointed to the Board as an Margaret Ford, Independent Non Executive Director, has wide-ranging Independent Non Executive Director and the Committee worked experience in a number of sectors and also has extensive knowledge of with Russell Reynolds Associates with regard to this appointment.
the property sector, gained through various roles.
Margaret has significant plc experience, including the chairing of remuneration committees: The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in regularly assessing whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise Mike Hussey, Independent Non Executive Director, has in-depth and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to expertise in land development and marketing, particularly in London, the Board and in respect of senior management across the Group.
gained from his previous roles as a Director of Land Securities plc As part of this process, management below Board level is regularly and as head of leasing and marketing of the Canary Wharf Group plc.
provided with access to the Board, including the opportunity to Mike is currently CEO of Almacantar, a property development fund attend Board Meetings and further Board functions in order to give he founded in 2010: presentations on specialist topics, project work and the performance Tony Reading, Independent Non Executive Director, has a wealth of of specific Business Units and Divisions.
management and financial experience in both the UK and also in the In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the Senior USA, and was previously a director of Tomkins Plc and CEO of its US division.
Tony is an experienced non executive director and has Independent Director, independent of each other, hold meetings at least annually with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive chaired a number of remuneration committees of various plcs: Directors present.
During 2013 each held one such meeting.
Rob Rowley, Independent Non Executive Director, has a wealth of Board and Committee roles and responsibilities financial, commercial and management expertise, principally from The work of each of the Board Committees Audit, Nomination his time as Finance Director of Reuters plc and Deputy Chairman and Remuneration is described later in this Report.
Rob has substantial experience as a non executive director including the chairing of audit committees.
Relevant skills and expertise It is a requirement of the Code that the Board and its Committees Division of responsibilities should have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, and knowledge of the Company, to enable duties and responsibilities to commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope be discharged effectively.
The Board considers that each Director brings and powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
relevant and complementary skills, experience and background to the In line with the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman Board, details of which are set out below, and additional information is and the Chief Executive have been clearly defined, set out in writing also set out in the biographies on pages 42 and 43 and, also on pages and signed by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern.
Ensuring there is no conflict of interest Kevin Beeston, Chairman, has a wealth of commercial, financial In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid conflicts and high level management experience.
Kevin also has significant or possible conflicts of interest, it is standard procedure that the Board experience of chairing Boards of both public and private companies.
must first give its clearance to such potential conflicts of interest which Pete Redfern, CEO, has operational responsibility for delivering would include directorships or other interests in outside companies and the Companys strategy in a profitable, safe and environmentally organisations following which, an entry is then made in the statutory responsible manner.
Pete has significant financial, operational and register which the Company maintains for this purpose.
management experience, gained from his various roles in industry Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, interested and from his time at KPMG: in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be a Ryan Mangold, Group Finance Director, has operational responsibility party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the for managing the Companys finances.
Ryan has financial, treasury, risk Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In such and financial control expertise including that gained from his time with cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any Director with such an interest is Mondi Group and Anglo American plc: not permitted to participate in any discussions or decisions relating to the contract or arrangement.
During 2013 no such matters arose.
James Jordan, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, is a solicitor and oversees compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and manages the Secretariat and Legal Departments.
James has significant legal, commercial, transactional and regulatory governance related experience: Kate Barker, Independent Non Executive Director, is an industryrecognised economist and has led policy reviews for the Government in the areas of land use, planning and housing supply.
Kate also brings a wider economic insight gained through her various roles, including her time on the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy Committee: Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 49 Corporate Governance continued The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, the carrying out of further work and initiatives to further develop the if any, outside of the Company and is satisfied that, in line with the Companys strategy and progress to date on diversity: Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company Diversity was a regular topic of Board consideration during 2013 and to enable them to discharge their responsibilities as Directors effectively.
continues to be so during 2014.
An action plan has been developed Where there have been any outside commitments, the Board is satisfied and agreed, including both medium and long-term goals, towards the that they do not detract from the extent or quality of time which the achievement of the Companys strategic goals in this area, and appears Director is able to devote to the Company.
Annual re-election to the Board further detailed work on succession planning within the business: The Code requires every Director to seek election or re-election, as appropriate, at each years Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, at Succession planning continued to be a key focus of the Nomination the 2014 AGM, every Director, irrespective of the date of his or her Committee during 2013 and the Board will ensure that this remains appointment and the length of his or her service on the Board, will be the case during 2014. submitted for election or re-election, as appropriate, other than Tony The 2013 Board evaluation consisted of a detailed and comprehensive Reading, who will be standing down at the conclusion of the AGM.
bespoke questionnaire which the Secretary sent individually to all Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and supporting Directors for completion.
The questionnaire focused on the performance biographical details of the Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting of the Board, each of the three Board Committees, each Director by on pages 132 to 139. way of self-assessment and also by way of a confidential evaluation by the Chairman on each Director and finally the performance of the As part of the 2013 Board Evaluation process, the Board reviewed Chairman.
In line with the Code, the questionnaire also had a separate and re-affirmed that it considers each of the Non Executive Directors section in respect of the Non Executive Director who had completed to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no more than six years of service Tony Reading, so as to enable the further relationships which could affect the Directors judgement.
In line with the evaluation of his independence.
Code, a more rigorous review took place with regard to Tony Reading as he had completed more than six years service as a Non Executive The questionnaire required detailed consideration by each Director Director including his time as a Director of George Wimpey Plc.
of the balance of skills: experience: independence: knowledge of the Company: diversity: succession planning: gender: how the Board works The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, met as a unit: and other factors relevant to the Boards effective operation.
the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
Once completed, the Secretary then collated all of the responses Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees to the questionnaire and produced a summary in respect of each and other functions performance area.
The annual Board evaluation is externally facilitated at least every third year, in compliance with the Code, and is conducted in-house The Chairman and the Secretary then reviewed the summaries in in intervening years.
Both the 2012 and 2013 Board evaluations were respect of each performance area and in respect of each Director conducted internally and formally facilitated by the Chairman and the except those completed with regard to the Chairman in respect of Secretary.
The 2014 evaluation will be externally facilitated and the which the process is set out below and then formally presented the outcome of that review will be reported in the 2014 Annual Report findings to the Board for discussion at the December Board meeting and Accounts.
The outcome of the 2012 Board evaluation was reported on As part of the appraisal process, the Chairman also discussed the in detail in last years Report.
The main action points arising evaluation on a one-to-one basis with each contributor as necessary.
from that exercise are set out below: A number of action points designed to increase the overall effectiveness additional focus by the Board on the performance of the of the Board came out of the 2013 performance evaluation and have Companys regional business units and operating divisions: either already been implemented or will be implemented during 2014 which include: greater involvement and contact between the Board and the Companys senior management and talent pool.
a more definitive split between the Chief Executives strategic These were each addressed during the year by several additional reporting on the Groups progress and prospects, and more detailed operational reviews from senior executives below presentations from Regional management, at which current performance and prospects for each business unit were discussed Board level: in detail.
In addition, as in previous years, one Board meeting was further work to ensure the progress made in the area of diversity held in a business unit and included visits to its development sites is embedded into the Companys day to day operations and and discussions with local management.
The 2013 visit was to the forward planning: East London business unit, during which the Board visited the further work to refine succession planning and related development Chobham Manor site at the Olympic Park.
programmes for executives: and 50 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 additional reporting in three key areas: land investment analysis: Nomination Committee people development: and operations and prospects in the London area.
Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board These action points will be kept under regular review by the Board and progress against them will be reported on in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
As part of the 2013 process, the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, undertook the evaluation of the Kevin Beeston Chairmans performance.
The evaluation was based on a nonChairman attributable summary prepared by the Secretary on the feedback received from the Non Executive Directors and Executive Directors Number of meetings in 2013 1 in response to the questionnaire.
The Secretarys summary was Directors Attendance reviewed by the Non Executive Directors in the absence of the Kevin Beeston 1 Chairman, following which Rob Rowley in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director provided feedback direct to the Chairman.
Kate Barker 1 Margaret Ford 1 Information and professional development Mike Hussey 1 The Company has procedures whereby newly appointed Directors including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This Tony Reading 1 includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys Pete Redfern 1 business, strategy, operations and systems, the principles underlying Rob Rowley 1 the discharge of their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to the housing sector.
Main objective To ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent process All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its Committees employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an understanding and to other senior roles and to ensure effective succession planning of the business.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations and processes across the Group.
at least one Board meeting per annum takes place in a regional business over three days.
Board Committees and their work The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Secretary Nomination Committee to the Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is Board policy that wherever possible a formal agenda and reports are composed of a majority of Non Executive Directors as required by issued electronically to Directors in respect of all Board and Committee the Code.
Its members are set out in the table above.
As set out earlier meetings one week prior to the meeting, in order to allow sufficient time in this Report, the Committee has procedures in place with regard to for detailed review and consideration beforehand.
Formal minutes are maintaining a formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board prepared in respect of all Board and Committee meetings and are then appointments, ensuring that appointments to the Board are made circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
All Board on merit and assessed against objective criteria.
It guides the Board papers are now circulated electronically and Board meetings are in regularly assessing whether there is a correct balance of expertise, effectively paperless.
reviewing progress towards compliance with the Davies Report and The Secretary provides regular briefings to the Board on regulatory wider diversity considerations, and in arranging the orderly succession and governance matters which are included as part of his formal for appointments to the Board and in respect of senior management regular reporting to the Board.
The Board also receives regular briefings across the Group.
A description of how appointments are typically and updates on environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
made to the Board is set out on page 48.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Secretary meet sufficiently in The Board has adopted a policy on diversity which is available on the advance of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points Companys website www.
co. uk corporate corporatefrom previous meetings have been implemented and to prepare the responsibility our-policies.
The Company actively embraces the agenda and matters to be covered at the next and at future Board business and local communities in which we operate and will strive to and Committee meetings as appropriate.
reflect their richness and character to include such aspects as gender, race and religion but also diversity of thought, background and experience.
The Company believes that everyone should have the right to equal access to employment and, when in our employ, to equal pay and access to training and career development.
The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment or bullying.
co. uk 51 Corporate Governance continued The Company has put in place systems to measure and monitor diversity around the Group more effectively.
Currently in addition to Board diversity referred to above there are two women out of eight on the GMT 25%, increased from 14% last year and one woman out of 24 Regional Managing Directors 4%.
Across the Group, the Company employs approximately 1,240 women 2012: 1,185 representing 31% of the workforce 2012: 33%.
Of the new starters with the Company during 2013, 27% were women 2012: 53%.
Within the Companys mentor programme for the development of staff, 50% of the participants are women 2012: 48%.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse We will examine our culture and In 2013 we invited an external consultant Ian Dodds communities.
We believe that embracing practices to determine what further Consulting to complete a sample survey of our employees this diversity will enable us to succeed actions can be taken to improve on Diversity and Inclusion.
through a workforce that is inclusive, diversity and inclusion within The findings indicated a positive culture but also a need for creative and innovative.
more role models, an increase in under-represented groups many aspects.
We have defined diversity and a requirement for further diversity awareness training.
to mean that we actively embrace the business and local communities in which In 2013 we delivered awareness training in four of our we operate and will strive to reflect their businesses and will extend this in 2014. richness and character to include such In 2013 the Chief Executive and Group HR Director held aspects as gender, race, disability and discussion groups with different sections of the workforce to religion but also diversity of thought, explore their ideas on diversity.
Groups representing ethnicity background and experience.
and disability are planned for 2014.
In 2013 we identified role models and mentors from diverse backgrounds.
In 2014 we will complete our new careers website with testimonials to promote greater diversity.
Managing diversity is about valuing We will identify people management Line Managers have approved an increasing number of flexible everyone as an individual valuing people practices that assist a diverse working requests in 2013. as our employees, customers and clients.
workforce to achieve their full potential.
Our flexible holiday purchase scheme was subscribed to by People have different needs, values and We will use our Community 525 employees: the majority of these were female.
Our people management practice Engagement Programme to demands that employment propositions In 2013 we delivered 66 training sessions and this will continue heighten awareness of personal are both consistently fair but also flexible in 2014. interaction and valuing individuals.
and inclusive in ways that assist our In 2013 we recruited 43 apprentices, 23 management trainees people while supporting our business We will increase the opportunities and 11 graduates.
In 2014 we plan to recruit 20 graduates needs and objectives.
for young people to join the and up to 100 site management apprentices by 2015.
Company and will promote continuous personal development.
We believe that everyone should We will ensure that all managers Management training in recruitment continues throughout have the right to equal access to involved in recruitment and 2013 and 2014. employment and, when in our employ, selection receive training that In 2013 we instructed our external recruitment partners about to equal pay and access to training incorporates the areas of diversity Taylor Wimpeys diversity strategy and requirements.
We established relationships with the Diversity Directory, We will extend our recruitment Women in Engineering and targeted Year in Industry groups.
sources in order to attract a more In 2014 we seek to identify other groups that we can work diverse range of applicants.
with to secure more diverse candidates.
We are committed to ensuring that our We will encourage our people to In 2013 we launched a whistleblowing campaign focused people are free from any direct or indirect speak out and report any direct or on diversity, encouraging employees to speak up against discrimination, harassment or bullying.
indirect discrimination, harassment any inappropriate practices or behaviour.
We will not tolerate any behaviour that or bullying.
We will act promptly Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment detracts from this.
in addressing any inappropriate or bullying are investigated and acted upon.
These actions will continue in 2014.
We acknowledge that we must continue Diversity will be promoted from Diversity was a core message within our strategy to promote diversity in order to create an the highest level and we will ensure roadshows in 2013.
It was also a main item at our organisation that attracts, supports and that our people understand the Managing Directors Conference.
promotes the broadest range of talent.
benefits of having a diverse and In 2013 it was introduced as a standing agenda item Establishing an organisational culture inclusive workforce.
at the Group Management Team meetings.
with diversity as a core value will enable individuals to reach their full potential Our employee survey in 2014 will ask for further feedback and to provide the best service to on Diversity and Inclusiveness.
52 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Reports directly to the Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Taylor Wimpey plc Board Rob Rowley Tony Reading Chairman Chairman Number of meetings in 2013 3 Number of meetings in 2013 4 Directors Attendance Directors Attendance Rob Rowley 3 Tony Reading 4 Kate Barker 3 Kevin Beeston 4 a a Mike Hussey 2 Margaret Ford 2 Tony Reading 3 Rob Rowley 4 b Brenda Dean 2 a appointed to the Committee on 28 February 2013. a appointed 25 April 2013.
Main objective b resigned 25 April 2013 To assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance responsibilities relating to the Groups internal control framework, internal audit Main objective process, risk management, financial reporting practices and external To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for audit process.
developing policy on executive remuneration and for agreeing the remuneration packages of individual Directors and senior executives and to monitor and report on them.
We believe that by embracing diversity and inclusiveness, we will better understand how peoples differences and similarities can be utilised for the benefit of not only the Company but most importantly page 47.
Details of the attendance of each Director are set out in the also for individuals and society as a whole.
It is the Boards view that table on page 51. having a diverse workforce will improve the Companys ability to deliver Audit Committee its strategy: the homes that it builds: and its services.
The members of the Audit Committee are as set out above.
Details Our strategy roadshows specifically addressed this area as a priority.
of the Committees activities during 2013 and priorities for 2014 are In 2013 we invited an external diversity consultant to survey a section contained in the Audit Committee Report on page 55. of our team and to work with the management team in identifying Remuneration Committee and remuneration actions to improve diversity.
All those involved in recruitment are trained The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for in inclusion, and we have delivered diversity awareness sessions to a Directors and senior executives and the activities of the Remuneration number of our businesses.
We targeted under-represented groups in Committee are described in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report our recruitment of students for Year in Industry placements: our links on pages 60 to 75.
The Committee is constituted in accordance with with Women in Engineering: and through advertising within the Diversity the Code and its members are set out above.
We have committed to discussion groups to explore how we can achieve a more representative workforce in relation to both The levels of remuneration are considered by the Committee to be ethnicity and disability.
sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors and other senior management of the quality required to run the Company successfully, This detailed information on the types and extent of various forms of without being excessive.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors diversity around the Group is taken into account when considering remuneration is linked to rewarding corporate and individual performance where recruitment, training and career development work is necessary, and there is linkage to effective risk management.
There is a formal and with a view to ensuring that there is a suitable recruitment pool at all transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration, levels from which to increase diversity, where appropriate.
including shareholder consultation and professional advice, and for The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, agreeing the remuneration packages of individual Directors, none of benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out on page 52. whom is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee The 2013 Remuneration Report reflects in full the BIS regulations on and the Board.
remuneration reporting, which help to clarify and improve the reporting The Committee considered in detail short and long term succession of executive pay, and which the Committee welcomes.
This includes a planning for Directors and key executives, together with appropriate number of additional disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report development plans.
There were two changes in the composition of the on pages 60 to 75, which is again divided into two sections: Board during 2013 the retirement of Brenda Dean on 25 April 2013 and the appointment of Margaret Ford on that date, as described on Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 53 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Policy Report, setting out the framework within which Succession Planning We have increased our emphasis on succession planning at all levels the Company proposes to remunerate its Executive Directors and other senior executives.
This is subject to a new, separate resolution of the organisation.
The Nomination Committee has visibility of a wider range of employees with leadership potential.
A Talent Management to be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the result of which is binding on the Company from the 2014 AGM: Group comprising the Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the two UK Housing Divisional Chairmen has been established.
Further Annual Report on Remuneration, setting out how the Companys actions to support succession planning have been introduced, including present remuneration policy was applied during 2013 and how the development of career paths linked to experience, exposure and it is proposed to implement the policy following the 2014 AGM.
education: an assessment and development centre: and the promotion This resolution will be submitted to the AGM each year and has of the Companys mentoring scheme.
We are also focusing upon advisory status.
recruiting individuals from a wider range of backgrounds.
Details of these two resolutions may be found in the Notice of Annual Relations with shareholders General Meeting on pages 132 to 139.
The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major The Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and consists of three institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and supports the Independent Non Executive Directors and also the Chairman of initiatives set out in the Code and the Stewardship Code, which aim the Board.
Margaret Ford was appointed to the Committee when to foster a more pro-active governance role by major shareholders.
Brenda Dean retired from the Board on 25 April 2013 and she will The Board has put in place arrangements designed to facilitate assume the Chair of the Committee when Tony Reading leaves the contact about business, governance, remuneration and other issues.
Board in April 2014, as referred to earlier in this Report.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive, Group During the year the Remuneration Committee met on four occasions, Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and and details of the attendance of each Director are set out in the table other executives, in order to establish a mutual understanding of on page 53. objectives.
The Company also operates a structured programme of Management investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications Progress in achieving the Group Strategy is reviewed at each covering the full-year and half-year results.
During the year, in addition Board meeting and is reported on pages 14 to 15.
The Chief Executive to monitoring the guidance made available to companies generally by has responsibility for preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the institutional shareholder bodies, the Chairman met with three of our the Group and the annual budgetary process.
These are subject major shareholders Schroders, Legal and General and Kames Capital, to formal approval by the Board.
to ascertain their views on the Companys performance, prospects, communications and remuneration policies.
He also met with the Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts Association of British Insurers on governance-related matters generally.
throughout the year to ensure they are sufficiently robust to reflect the possible impact of changing economic conditions and circumstances.
All Directors receive formal reports and briefings during the year about The Chief Executive and the Board conduct regular reviews of actual the Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed results and future projections with comparison against budget and feedback through surveys, direct contact and other means, through prior year, together with various treasury reports.
Disputes that may which they are able to develop an understanding of the views of major give rise to significant litigation or contractual claims are monitored shareholders about the Company.
at each meeting of the Board, with specific updates on any material The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the Annual developments or new matters.
General Meeting, which is attended by all Directors.
Shareholders The Group has clearly defined policies, processes and procedures attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting on pages 132 to 139 which governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be reviewed sets out details of the rights of shareholders in connection with the and refined in order to meet the requirements of the business and notice of, and participation in, general meetings of the Company.
Defined authority limits continue Information about the Company, including full-year and half-year results to be closely monitored in response to prevailing market conditions.
and other major announcements, and additional information about Any investment, acquisition or significant purchase or disposal of shareholder facilities, is published on the Companys website land requires detailed appraisal and is subject to approval by the www.
co. uk Board or the Chief Executive, depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
This 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Your Directors have responsibility for preparing this 2013 Annual Report There is a clearly identifiable organisational structure and a framework and Accounts and for making certain confirmations concerning it.
In of delegated authority approved by the Board within which individual accordance with the Code provision C. 1.1 the Board considers that, responsibilities of senior executives of Group companies are identified taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides and can be monitored.
The Operating Framework, within which the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys delegated authorities, responsibilities and related processes are performance, business model and strategy.
explained in detail, is available for review and guidance online by any employee through the Companys Intranet.
These activities are The Board reached this conclusion after receiving advice from the reinforced through process compliance and other audits conducted Audit Committee.
The processes of review and assessment followed by Internal Audit.
by that Committee in that respect, are set out on page 59.
The annual employee performance appraisal process is objectivebased, with individual objectives cascaded down from the appropriate business objectives.
Reviews identify training needs to support achievement of objectives.
54 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
