24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS CONTINUED Diversity Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Code the We strongly support the principle of boardroom diversity, of which Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing gender is one element.
Anne Sheineld has been on the Board process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks since June 2010 and the Board is very pleased to benefit from her faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review valuable contribution.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an important consideration when assessing a candidates ability to contribute to, and complement with the Turnbull guidance.
the abilities of, a balanced Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for Our Board appointments will always be made on merit against identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business objective criteria, and this will continue to be the priority rather than and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
aiming to achieve an externally prescribed diversity target.
Management is responsible for the identication and evaluation As noted in the People report on page 28, the continued expansion of significant risks applicable to its areas of the business together of the Company means that Ted Bakers workforce is becoming with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
The Company will continue to support risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a the development and progression of all employees, with the aim variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, of maintaining and achieving diversity throughout all levels of disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe the organisation.
Communication with Shareholders The Group has an independent internal audit function whose findings are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Group attaches considerable importance to the effectiveness of The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the its communication with its shareholders.
The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders and further copies are distributed to internal audit activities.
others with potential interest in the Groups performance.
Management reports regularly on its review of risks and how they The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives are managed to the Risk Committee, whose main role is to review, between the Company and its institutional shareholders by making on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks, and to present general presentations after the interim and preliminary results: their findings to the Board.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board meeting shareholders to discuss long-term issues and gather on behalf of the Executive Committee on significant changes in the feedback: and communicating regularly throughout the year.
All business and the external environment which affects significant risks.
shareholders have access to these presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and Accounts and to other information about the The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly financial Company, through the website at www.
They may information which includes key performance indicators.
Where also attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which they areas for improvement in the system are identied, the Board have the opportunity to ask questions.
considers the recommendations made by the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
Non-executive directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the executive directors and are provided with The Risk Committee includes the Finance Director and various independent feedback from investor meetings.
It reviews, on a twice yearly basis, the risk Conicts of Interests management and control process and considers: Following approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the t the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in Companys Articles of Association were amended to take account of the identication, assessment and management of significant certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to directors risks faced by the Group: conicts of interest.
These provisions permit the Board to consider, t the response to the significant risks which have been identied by and, if thought t, to authorise situations where a director has an management and others: interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has adopted procedures for the approval t the maintenance of a controlled environment directed towards of such conicts.
The Boards powers to authorise conicts are the proper management of risk: and operating effectively and the procedures are being followed.
Internal Control Additionally, the Risk Committee keeps abreast of all changes made The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal to the systems and follows up on areas that require improvement.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system It reports to the Board at twice yearly intervals or more frequently is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to should the need arise.
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not The Bribery Act 2010 absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board continues to proactively review the Groups procedures to ensure they are sufficiently robust to prevent corruption.
