50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee Membership of the Audit Committee The UK Code provides that all members of the Committee should be independent non-executive Directors.
Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to Committee Simon Batey Chairman Simon Batey October 2007 Audit Committee Chairman John OReilly Maurizio Carli May 2011 The integrity of the Groups financial October 2007 results and the effectiveness of its Nancy Cruickshank Claudia Arney risk management and internal control February 2014 October 2013 systems are important both to Directors The Chairman, whose biography is included on page 43, has and to shareholders.
They are also recent and relevant financial experience from a number of finance director and audit committee roles: critical to the way the Groups business Senior members of financial management attend and present is operated as they are required to at meetings other than during private discussions between the Committee and the Auditors : measure and to sustain achievement Representatives of the external Auditors attend and present of its strategic objectives.
at meetings other than during discussions regarding their performance : As the Audit Committee, we assist the Board in its oversight and The Internal Auditor also attends and presents at meetings: monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal and controls.
We test and challenge these areas in conjunction Sahar Elhabashi was also a member of the Committee until with management and the internal and external auditors she stepped down from the Board in March 2013. as appropriate.
In this report, I summarise our activities in 2013.
Speci c objectives achieved in 2013 Continued to stay focussed on the Committees top priorities Developments during the year of financial reporting and related internal control risk: Continued to monitor accounting judgements and estimates In the past year, along with the management team, we: and prepared for any accounting changes: Reviewed the system of risk management in the Group and Continued to consider whether the financial statements and inputted to the enhancement of the measurement of risk levels disclosures told the Companys story: by management, increasing uniformity across the Group whilst Reviewed the Groups initiative to improve consistency in the continuing to allow for local judgement: recording of risks and the actions to manage them: and Reviewed the new reporting requirements for listed companies Reviewed internal audit effectiveness in line with the this year, and the preparations for these, which we followed up Chartered Institute of Internal Audit requirements.
with a speci c meeting shortly after year-end to review their implementation in advance of our regular meeting: Speci c objectives for 2014 Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function against the recommendations of the Institute of Continue to stay focussed on the Committees top priorities Internal Audit noting the generally favourable comparison and of financial reporting and related internal control risk: considering the areas for ongoing enhancement in future years.
: Continue to monitor accounting judgements and estimates and and prepare for any accounting changes: Along with the Board, agreed a process for review of the Develop appropriate procedures for the Committee to access measurement of the Groups nonfinancial KPIs.
the reporting of the Company under the new governance requirements: Review the achievement of risk management objectives: and Monitor assurance of nonfinancial KPIs.
UK Code Principle: The board should present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51 Audit Committee calendar for 2013 January March April May June August September November December February July October Annual results, including consideration of: Half year results including Consideration of plans for preparation of Report of the Group Finance Director consideration of: the annual results, including: Report of the Auditors Report of the Group Finance Director Report of the Group Finance Director Going concern Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors Results of assurance process for nonfinancial data Draft results announcement Reviews of Finnish acquisitions Draft investor presentation Annual Report outline Draft Annual Report Turkish acquisition Audit plan Draft results announcement Recommendation to the Board on the The Groups accounting policies Draft investor presentation results Plans for checking measurement of Performance and independence of the Nonfinancial KPIs Reviews of: external Auditors Progress in Committee objectives for the Addressing of external Auditors internal Tax matters, including draft taxation policy current year control observations Meeting with the external and internal Auditors in Whistleblowing Policy in the context of Corporate Calendar to end 2014 absence of management new UK legislation Tax matters Anti Bribery Policy for employees and Reviews of: protocol for suppliers Annual Internal Audit report and plans Effectiveness of the Committee Update on changes to reporting The Committees Terms of Reference requirements for: The Directors Remuneration Report Recommendations to the Board on: The Audit Committee Report The annual results The new Strategic Report Re-appointment of the Auditors The fair, balanced and understandable Agreement of Objectives for 2013 assessment for Annual Reports Reviews of financial reporting, Reviews of reports on: Consideration of internal audit: Reviews of: including: Risk management Reports Minutes of previous meetings Any proposed changes to Risk registers Plans Reports on implementation of accounting policies Internal control Recommendations actions from previous meetings Key assumptions, judgements implementation andestimates proposed by management Developments in reporting and accounting requirements affecting the Group Non-audit work by, and fees to, the external Auditors Public reporting One purpose of our reviews is to assess whether the information in the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable As a Committee, we review and comment on both the financial assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In the years information and nonfinancial information in the Groups Annual before the new UK Code recommendations taking effect this year Reports prepared by management.
This includes consideration of the Group enhanced its disclosures in these and other respects.
key judgements and estimates in the context of reports on these The Group has sought to further enhance its disclosures this year.
from both management and the external Auditors.
Our timetable To assist with this process of review, we held a speci c meeting for this is included on the Committees calendar above.
after year-end to review and comment on an early draft of the As shown on the calendar, we met formally as a Committee three Annual Report in the context of an earlier review by a disclosure times in the year.
Ahead of each meeting, I discussed relevant committee comprising Board and management representatives.
accounting matters with the Group Finance Director and the These included assessment of whether the Annual Report taken senior financial team.
I also discuss relevant audit matters in as a whole was fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of advance with our audit partner.
This helps me to lead focused these assessments, a review was undertaken of the positive and informed discussions of agenda items with my Committee and negative themes included and to be included in the colleagues at our meetings.
At each main meeting At speci c meetings 52 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee continued Signi cant issues The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
At each Audit Committee meeting management presents a paper on signi cant accounting policies and estimates.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Signi cant issue considered by Audit Committee How addressed Property, Plant and Equipment Due to the nature and materiality of the data centre assets the Accounting for new build data centres is a standing item on the Committee is focused on appropriate accounting for property, accounting paper which is presented at each Committee plant and equipment.
In particular, new-build data centres meeting.
require careful consideration during the construction stage, The annual review of useful economic lives and residual values which can take several years.
The main areas that require was conducted across the Group, the result of which was consideration are depreciation and capitalisation of reported to the Committee.
Accounting treatments associated with new build data centres were discussed.
Particular focus was given to the rates of depreciation and capitalisation of costs, in particular relating to data centres that are brought into use in discrete zones.
Impairment Non-current assets, in particular property, plant and The judgements relating to asset impairment relate primarily to equipment and intangible assets are a material component the assumptions underlying the value in use calculation, primarily of the balance sheet.
the achievability of the long term business plan underlying the valuation process.
These assumptions were considered by the IAS 36 requires that an impairment test is conducted annually Committee, including the weighted average cost of capital for goodwill and intangible assets of inde nite life.
which formed an initial basis for determining the discount rate.
Impairment reviews are judgemental by their nature, and careful consideration is required of the cash ows and assumptions used.
Acquisitions The Group has made three acquisitions in the period: Technical aspects of acquisition accounting were discussed.
SadeceHosting in Turkey, 3DC in Bulgaria and PLIX in Poland.
Integration of the new businesses was a focus for the Judgement is required around acquisition accounting, in Committee.
Detailed integration plans were presented, and particular around calculation of the fair value of consideration, progress was communicated on a month-by-month basis.
fair value of assets acquired, and the valuation of acquired Challenge was also given to the segmental allocation of intangible assets.
Consideration was given to reporting The financial and commercial integration of new businesses SadeceHosting, 3DC and PLIX and within a separate geographical is also a matter of focus for the Committee.
segment but deemed inappropriate due to the current size of the business and the operational structure of the Group during the year.
Presentation of financial statements The Group presents an additional performance measure to its Adjusting items are a standing item on the accounting paper statutory results being the adjusted results.
which is presented at each Committee meeting.
Challenge was given to items reported as exceptional, in particular: acquisition The adjusted results are presented as they are considered to and integration costs, Finance Director departure costs, and the provide further insight into the underlying performance of the cost of creating an onerous contract provision for exiting one of Group.
Three items are eliminated in arriving at the adjusted its London sites in 2014. results: exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles, and other nancing items.
KPIs During the year, an error was identi ed in the occupied space The Committee assumed a governance role as a Group wide that was reported at 31 December 2012 and 30 June 2013. exercise was conducted to ensure best practice, involving a detailed review of KPI fide nitions and guidelines, full physical veri cation of space and power.
An external audit rm was commissioned to provide further assurance on the Groups operational KPIs, in addition to internal audit work performed in the area.
The reports of each of these were presented to the Committee.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 53 As a Committee, we also review the Groups half year results We review such matters at each meeting and consider that prior to publication in a similar way as for the full year results.
none of the areas identi ed for enhancement during the year Committee members review the Groups twice yearly Interim constituted a signi cant failing or weakness for the Group.
Management Statements as part of their detailed review and In addition, members of the Committee assist in providing input comment by the Board as a whole rather than at speci c Audit to management outside meetings when the occasion arises.
We consider this approach appropriate in For example, during 2012, as in prior years, I met with operational view of the limited amount of financial information contained in management on a number of occasions to review the governance the Groups Interim Management Statements and the thorough processes involved in the construction of one of the Groups key review process undertaken by the Board, although we will keep new data centres.
We consider that the information that we receive as a Committee Further information regarding the preparation of the Group is suf cient to enable us to review the effectiveness of the accounts is included in the Directors Report commencing on Groups risk management and internal controls.
These accord page 126. with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee.
Of course, they manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business Internal control and risk management framework and objectives.
Whilst they cannot provide absolute assurance, we procedures believe they provide reasonable assurance against material The key elements of the Groups internal financial control misstatement or loss.
framework and procedures are set out in the table below.
A review of the Groups system of risk management commences Maintenance of the independence of the external Auditors on page 22.
Through the processes outlined in that review: We have developed procedures relating to the provision of Areas for enhancement of internal controls and risk non-audit services by the Groups external Auditors.
Under these management are identi ed: procedures, non-audit work and the fees involved require Action plans to deliver such enhancements are devised: and approval by the Audit Committee, after taking account of any Delivery is then monitored by management and by us as potential risk of a con ict of interest arising then or in the future.
This is subject to fide minimis amounts of routine work involving fees of no more than 10,000 which may be necessary between Committee meetings that are then reported at our next meeting.
The key elements of the Groups internal financial control framework and procedures include: The close involvement of the executive Annual review by the Audit Committee Production of accurate, relevant Directors, including regular meetings and Board of the effectiveness of the and timely financial information by with the senior management team Groups risk management and internal each subsidiary: to review operational aspects of control systems: and Safeguarding of the Groups assets the business: Reviews by the Groups internal audit through physical controls and Clearly fide ned responsibilities and function of speci c areas of operations segregation of duties: limits of authority, including fide nition selected in consultation with the Audit Proactive risk identi cation and of matters that require Board approval: Committee.
Reports of these reviews mitigation though appropriate A comprehensive Group-wide system of are discussed with senior members of monitoring and controls: financial reporting, budgeting and cash the finance team and the Chairman of Compliance with Group policies as well forecasting and control through which the Audit Committee before being as applicable laws and regulations: and financial accounts are prepared and presented to and considered by the The Group recognises the bene ts of submitted to the Board monthly: Audit Committee.
obtaining an effective internal audit Regular preparation of pro t and cash The main aims of the internal audit reviews function and reviewed this against the ow forecasts, to monitor actual against are to ensure: recommendations of the Institute of expected performance: Internal Audit, noting the generally Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Operation of an effective system favourable comparison and Committee at which financial of internal control at Group and enhancements to be considered in information is reviewed and business subsidiary levels: future years.
risks are reported upon and monitored: 54 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Audit Committee continued In 2011, the Companies Act introduced two discrete Whilst we do not consider it necessary to have a policy for rotation classi cations of non-audit work provided by statutory auditors: of external audit rms, we plan to give consideration to placing audit-related assurance services and other services.
Auditfuture audits out to tender over the coming years.
related assurance services include work required by law or The Audit Committee has assessed the performance and regulation, for example review of interim financial statements, effectiveness of the external audit process in the past year which would normally be performed by the statutory auditors.
primarily through the use of an audit quality questionnaire, in They also include extended audit work that is integrated into the which the finance manager of each subsidiary was invited to feed statutory audit.
back on the audit process.
Where appropriate, comments arising During the year, the audit-related assurance services provided by from the questionnaire were discussed with the subsidiaries.
the Auditors to the Group mainly comprised the review of the More detailed follow-up is scheduled post year-end, in half year results and assurance in respect of nonfinancial KPIs.
conjunction with the individual subsidiary statutory accounts Other services performed by the Auditors in 2013 related mainly process.
The results of the overall assessment were discussed to general tax advice.
with the Group finance team, before being presented to the Committee, to inform our recommendation to the Board for The fees paid for these other services during the year represented the annual re-appointment of the external auditors.
23% 2012: 28% of the fees paid for the statutory audit and audit-related assurance services together.
Excluding the auditOn behalf of the Audit Committee related assurance services, they represented 29% 2012: 37% of the statutory audit fee.
Further details of these amounts are included in note 8 of the accounts.
As a Committee, we welcome the substantial reduction of these proportions over the past years, and are satis ed that the work Simon Batey undertaken by the Auditors with the safeguards they have in place Chairman of the Audit Committee has not threatened their overall independence.
11 February 2014 We have a policy so that, before any former employee of the external Auditors may be employed by the Group, careful consideration must be given as to whether the independence of the Auditors will be adversely affected, and our approval is required.
This particular circumstance has not yet arisen.
PwC were appointed as the Groups Auditors in June 2008 on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee was not then, nor is now, subject to any contractual or other restrictions as to the choice of external auditors.
The first engagement partner rotation within PwC for the Group Audit was completed in line with recommended practice in 2013.
We are mindful of changes and potential changes to the requirements for external auditor selection, given recent reviews by the Competition Commission and the EU.
UK Code Principle: UK Code Principle: The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the signi cant how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the sound risk management and internal control systems.
