62 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Nominations Committee Membership of the Nominations Committee The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors should comprise the majority of the Committee.
Board Chairman independent on appointment Independent non-executive Director with month of appointment to the Committee John Hughes, CBE John Hughes Chairman Nominations Committee Chairman Oct 2007 John OReilly Having an appropriate range of high Claudia Arney Oct 2007 June 2013 calibre Directors on our Board is key to Nancy Cruickshank Simon Batey determining and maximising success June 2013 Senior Independent Director in the Groups strategic objectives.
Oct 2007 Maurizio Carli April 2012 Having appropriate succession planning The Chief Executive Of cer normally also attends meetings for the Board and senior management is although this would not be the case if the Committee was discussing matters in connection with the appointment of essential to ensuring that this success his successor : can be sustained over the long term.
The Group HR Director may also attend and give presentations at meetings: As the Nominations Committee, we assist the Board in the key The Chairman would not chair any meeting in connection with areas of composition and succession planning for the Board and the appointment of a successor: and the senior management of the Group.
In this report, I summarise Sahar Elhabashi was also a member of the Committee until our work.
she stepped down from the Board in March 2013.
Appointment of Directors Speci c objectives achieved in 2013 During the year we completed the recruitment process I Ongoing development of succession planning: mentioned in my report last year for an additional non-executive Ongoing monitoring of objectives for increased diversity in Director.
This process was undertaken with the assistance of the Group: Heidrick and Struggles following on from their selection for, and Reviewed talent assessment and management in the Group successful completion of, the recruitment of non-executive including outside top management: and Directors for the Company in 2011.
Reviewed organisational and people development generally, and how this should progress over time.
Whilst we had originally set out to recruit one new independent non-executive Director, during the process we identi ed two Speci c objectives set for 2014 exceptional candidates, Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank, with skills sets that were both complementary to each other and Identi cation of high-potential employees and their to those of the rest of the Board.
Following discussion with the integration into succession planning: rest of the Board we recommended that both be appointed Continued focus on increased diversity: and this was approved.
The process for these appointments is Continued development programmes for key leadership described in the diagram on page 63.
At the same time, Sahar talent: and Elhabashi, one of our existing non-executive Directors, stepped Planning for non-executive succession planning in the light down from the Board to enable her to focus on her new full time of approach towards the nine year time horizon after IPO.
executive role in the United States.
Our other non-executive Directors were also selected through previous externally facilitated recruitments, as was I as Chairman of the Board.
All our non-executive Directors are independent, as was I on appointment although under the UK Code, I am not considered to be independent after appointment as Chairman.
UK Code Principles: There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
All directors should be able to allocate suf cient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63 Nominations Committee calendar for 2013 January March May June July August September November February April October December Reviews of: Update on executive team Management reorganisation, Review of results of Board Evaluation Committee report for succession planning and including proposed new regional Consideration and agreement of inclusion in Annual Report development management structure recommendation to the Board on Committee objectives for proposals for reappointment of Plans for the external Board Initial consideration and agreement on recommendation to the Directors including non-executive evaluation to be carried out process to nalise decision to recommend Board Directors on the Board for six years later in the year by Egon re-election of the independent nonUpdate on and discussion Zehnder executive Directors on the Board for Update on CFO Recruitment, including of new NED recruitment six years selection of Russell Reynolds to assist Organisational update, Annual review of Committee with the recruitment including: Terms of Reference changes to roles within current management team recruitment of new CIO Reviews of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on actions agreed at previous meetings Selection process for new Directors appointed during 2013 Candidate speci cation The potential candidates Interviews and selection Recommendations to by Nominations and con rmation by The speci cation for the Heidrick & Struggles who Committee the Board candidates to be sought assisted with the previous was determined by the successful non-executive The Nominations The Nominations Nominations Committee Director recruitments Committee then selected Committee recommended and agreed with the Board.
then prepared a longlist candidates for interview a shortlist of potential of potential candidates to establish the suitability candidates for This had objective criteria from a speci c search as of each candidate for consideration by the Board.
including the capabilities well as their own database.
and characteristics Following interview by required to add to the This identi ed a diverse This selection was on the Directors including both diversity and balance of range of candidates basis of skills, knowledge executive Directors and skills of the Board whilst meeting the speci cation.
and experience and also in agreement with the complementing the of character and ability to Nominations Committee, existing Directors.
provide the necessary time the Board appointed both commitment both at and Claudia Arney and Nancy between meetings.
UK Code Principle: All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
At each main meeting At speci c meetings 64 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Nominations Committee continued Board evaluation process facilitated by Egon Zehnder Comprehensive questionnaire containing a series of open questions requiring narrative answers Completed by all Directors covering the following areas: Strategy and implementation Performance of each Director including in particular the Succession planning and talent development longest serving independent Directors Board dynamics, operation and information ow Performance of each of the Board Committees Director self-assessment and training needs Con dential interviews by Egon Zehnder with Directors and seven senior managers Expanding on answers given in questionnaire in open discussion Including separate interviews with both Director and senior managers Lasting between approximately one and two hours each Results of the questionnaire and interviews and drawing of conclusions The results were presented and discussed at a Board meeting by Egon Zehnder Based on these results, the Board discussed matters, drew conclusions and agreed actions including: Ongoing evolution of reports to the Board in line with the Greater opportunity be taken for external strategic and other development of the Group speakers to give presentations at Board meetings Focus on relevant themes for future business developments The frequency and length of Board and other meetings be increased along with early discussion of key challenges be considered by management Succession Planning and People Development continue to be reviewed by the Nominations Committee Follow up meetings and discussions The Chairman and non-executive Directors met in the The non-executive Directors met in the absence of the absence of the executive Directors to review the performance Chairman and executive Directors to review the performance of the executive Directors.
Length of tenure of Directors IPO AGM Oct 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Apr 2014 John Hughes 6 years since IPO 6 years since IPO Michael Tobin Claudia Arney 1 year 6 years Simon Batey Maurizio Carli 3 years Nancy Cruickshank 1 year John OReilly 6 years Overview Strategy Performance Governance review Financial statements Investor information Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65 Actions taken in response to 2012 Board and Committee Evaluation 2012 Evaluation Recommendation Action in 2013 in response Suggestions for speci c topics for Board meetings Organisational and people development were reviewed by the be considered.
Customer offerings and technological evolution were reviewed culminating in the launch of Cloud-IX.
Energy ef ciency initiatives and competitor strengths and weaknesses were reviewed by the Board.
Greater coverage of post event capital expenditure project This is being included on an ongoing basis.
assessment and learnings in country manager presentations.
Further consideration of the evolution of future investor This was handled over a number of Board meetings with input expectations of the Company.
from the Groups financial advisors and in the context of feedback received from shareholders at meetings with executive and non-executive Directors.
Objectives of the Committees to be updated in light of These are included in the objectives for each Committee in their evaluation comments.
Appointment of Directors continued Succession planning I believe this has created a diverse group of non-executive We have developed a thorough succession planning process Directors able to provide the required range of skills, knowledge for executive Directors and senior management in the Group.
and experience to the Board and the executive team.
This includes encouragement and facilitation of the development of each individual as well as career progression as opportunities Biographies of all Directors are included on pages 42 and 43. arise, such as last year in the increasing regionalisation of the The progressive appointment of Directors over past years has management of the business.
These matters are reviewed assisted in refreshing the membership of our Board as shown regularly by the Committee and the feedback from participants in the length of tenure of Directors diagram.
This has similarly has been positive.
enabled us to refresh the membership of our Committees for During 2013, the Committee reviewed succession planning in which we have shown months of appointment in the introductory relation to our two longer-serving non-executive Directors, Simon sections of their reports.
Following initial three-year terms, we Batey and John OReilly, who have now been on the Board for six review the terms of our Directors annually, in line with their annual full years.
A fresh perspective was brought to this review by the retirement under the UK Code, as we did at our October and appointment to our Committee of our more recently recruited December meetings in 2013. non-executive Directors, Claudia Arney and Nancy Cruickshank.
Letters of appointment of our non-executive Directors set out the Simon Batey and John OReilly did not themselves participate in time commitments normally required, as does mine for my role as the Committee deliberations on this.
Such time commitments can involve peaks of activity The review included consideration of the roles held by Simon at particular times and we are all exible in managing these.
Batey as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior We notify the Board of any signi cant changes to our other Independent Director and John OReilly as Chairman of the commitments before they arise.
Our letters of appointment are Remuneration Committee.
It also included separate discussion available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce and with them regarding their personal plans.
our Annual General Meeting AGM.
The review commenced with discussions in advance of our Recruitment of new Chief Financial Of cer externally facilitated Board evaluation.
At that stage, the Committee agreed that it would be appropriate to include During the year, we also commenced the search for a new further consideration of the matter as part of that evaluation.
Chief Financial Of cer following the announcement that Brian McArthur-Muscroft would be stepping down from the Board at the end of January 2014.
Russell Reynolds was appointed to assist the Company in this on the recommendation of the Committee following consideration of a number of rms.
As a Committee, we developed a detailed speci cation for the role and pro le of the candidate to be sought in conjunction with Mike Tobin as CEO.
We will report on this more fully in our Committee report next year.
UK Code Principle: The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
66 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report of the Nominations Committee continued The discussions were then completed in light of its results which con rmed the Committees initial view.
On this basis, the Committee has concluded that Simon Batey and John OReilly continue to be fully independent and to provide great value in their respective roles.
The Committee therefore considers that the interests of the Company and its shareholders are best served by there being no changes to these roles at present.
We have, though, commenced discussions on succession planning for these roles for progression over the coming terms.
Re-election of Directors All our Directors retire at every AGM under the UK Code.
If decided appropriate by the Board, Directors may be proposed for re-appointment by shareholders.
In reaching its decision, the Board acts on our advice as the Nominations Committee, taking account of the results of our 2013 Board evaluation summarised on page 64.
This year, we intend to propose all Directors for re-appointment.
All our non-executive Directors are key members of the Board, each bringing valuable and unique skills, knowledge and experience to its overall effectiveness.
Their Individual details are given in their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Following our evaluation of the Board, I, as Chairman, con rm that the performance of all our non-executive Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
As already commented upon, discussions on the process for the planning for succession of our longer serving independent non-executive Directors has commenced.
Board and Committee evaluation Critical to the success of our Board and Committees in achieving their aims is the effectiveness with which they operate.
Accordingly, we take our evaluation of this very seriously.
Even before the UK Code took effect, we had adopted the three-year cycle for external evaluations that it recommends.
A summary of our 2013 Board and Committee evaluation which was externally facilitated by Egon Zehnder is shown in the ow chart on page 64.
A summary of the actions we took in response to our evaluation process in 2012 is shown on page 65.
I will report to you next year on the actions taken in response to our 2013 evaluation, and on our 2014 evaluation.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee John Hughes, CBE Chairman of the Nominations Committee 11 February 2014
