BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is pleased to report that during the year and as at the date of this Annual Report the Company has complied with the main principles and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
Additionally, the Board has given consideration to the requirements set out in the new UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2012 the New Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Boards position in relation to certain new requirements, and in particular the need to tender the external audit every ten years, is set out below.
Copies of the Code and the New Code are available at www.
This report, together with the Directors Report on pages 25 to 28 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39, provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its future development.
Directors are provided in advance with a formal agenda of matters to be discussed at each meeting, and with the detailed information needed to monitor the progress of the Company.
Records of meetings and the decisions of the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, are able to take independent advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Whilst the members of the Board are all experienced and well qualified, the opportunity to receive further training at the Companys expense is available to them at all times.
The non-executive directors regularly attended formal, externally facilitated courses relevant to their roles and responsibilities during the year.
BOARD DUTIES The matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board are fully documented and include the following principal areas: Reviewing and agreeing the Companys strategy and long term objectives.
Assessing performance in the light of the Companys strategy and objectives.
Ensuring an effective system of risk management and internal controls is in place.
Approving changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board and reviewing its performance on an annual basis.
Reviewing the Companys overall corporate governance arrangements.
Approval of the Companys financial statements prior to publication.
Matters that are specifically delegated to the committees of the Board are documented in the various Terms of Reference of each committee which are available on the Companys website www.
TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT FORMAL MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 Name of Director Board Remuneration Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 11 4 3 - Charles Wigoder 11 - - - Julian Schild 11 4 3 - Andrew Lindsay 11 - - - Chris Houghton 11 - - - Melvin Lawson 11 43 - Michael Pavia 11 4 3 - In accordance with provision A.
4.2 of the Code, the non-executive directors also met without the executives present during the year.
29 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED BOARD EVALUATION The directors recognise that the Code requires an external evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies to be carried out at least every three years.
The directors considered the position in relation to the current year, which represents the second reporting year under which this requirement has been in place, and concluded that an external evaluation was not necessary.
In reaching this conclusion the directors were mindful of the effective operation of the Board during the year and the strong performance of the Company.
As part of its normal review process the Board will re-assess its position in this regard during the coming year.
An internal evaluation of the Board for the current year was conducted through the completion of formal detailed board, and board committee evaluation questionnaires by each director.
In addition a review involving each director was carried out.
This review was conducted by the Deputy Chairman and Company Secretary and principally covered the following areas: specific matters of concern arising from the board evaluation questionnaires, individual directors performances and key objectives for the coming year, and the identification of any specific training and development requirements.
The evaluation questionnaires were focussed on assessing effectiveness in the following key areas: the size and balance of the Board: the quality of board debates and its decision making processes: the individual contributions made by each director: the Chairmans approach to leadership: the non-executive directors challenge of the executive directors: the Boards approach to identifying and mitigating key business risks: the quality of the Companys communications with key stakeholders: and the induction and training of board members.
6.3 of the Code and building on the results of the evaluation questionnaires, the Deputy Chairman led a separate evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
This evaluation principally comprised a review of the Chairmans leadership style and tone in promoting effective decision-making and ensuring constructive and sufficient debate took place around key issues.
The results of this evaluation were entirely satisfactory.
In general the evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees had operated well during the year and that all the directors had effectively contributed to the Board as appropriate to their experience and varying roles and responsibilities.
The prior year board evaluation exercise identified certain areas for improvement as described in the last Annual Report.
The board evaluation results for the current year did not reveal any significant new matters of concern and concluded that progress had been made in relation to the issues identified in the prior year as explained below.
It had been identified that improvements could be made to the Boards communication with the Companys key stakeholders and in particular with shareholders on governance-related issues.
As a result the Deputy Chairman wrote to the Companys six largest shareholders during the year in order formally to open lines of communication and invite meetings if these were desirable.
Accordingly, where requested, the Deputy Chairman held discussions on these matters with shareholders during the year.
The Company also streamlined the processes for dealing with routine matters at the AGM held in July 2012 affording smaller shareholders the maximum opportunity to engage with the directors and ask questions.
Following the prior year evaluation it had been agreed that the training and development requirements of each director be more regularly reviewed.
Whilst no material requirements in this regard were identified during the current year, it remains for the review process to become more formal and regular, particularly in relation to the executive directors.
The current year evaluation exercise identified that whilst succession planning for key individuals within the Company was discussed at certain board meetings during the year, it was considered desirable that the matter be formally added to the agenda of board meetings on a more regular basis going forward.
30 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS BOARD BALANCE AND DIVERSITY The Board has remained unchanged during the year and consists of three executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
Julian Schild acts as the Companys Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
Membership of each committee of the Board is set out in the table below: Name of Director Remuneration Audit Nomination Committee Committee Committee Charles Wigoder - - 3 Julian Schild Chairman 3 3 Andrew Lindsay - - - Chris Houghton - - - Melvin Lawson 3 3 - Michael Pavia 3 Chairman Chairman indicates independent non-executive directors The Board, in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, regularly reviews whether the composition of the Board and the diversity of its members remain appropriate in the light of the commercial challenges and risks facing the Company.
The members of the Nomination Committee believe that the composition of the Board is currently appropriate for the size of the Company and the nature of its operations which have not materially changed in scope since the prior year.
However, the Committee appreciates that should the Companys situation change in future, then the appointment of new directors to the Board may be required.
The main objective of the Nomination Committee when considering the appointment of new directors to the Board remains to ensure that successful candidates are of the highest calibre and offer the optimum set of skills, experience and background.
The Committees Terms of Reference further stipulate that candidates from a wide range of backgrounds shall be considered and that due regard will be given to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
It remains the Committees position that it would not be appropriate to stipulate the characteristics of any future directors, including gender, ahead of a full assessment of the particular requirements of the role at the time.
However, the Committee will ensure that it continues to adhere to the principles set out above in identifying and recruiting the most appropriate candidates to the Board in a non-discriminatory manner.
Further detail regarding the Companys position in relation to encouraging diversity within all layers of the organisation is set out in the Employees section of the Business Review on pages 16 and 17.
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the Executive Chairman responsible for developing the strategic direction of the business and ensuring the effective operation of the Board, including compliance with principles of good corporate governance, and the Chief Executive primarily responsible for implementing strategy and running the Groups operations on a day to day basis.
As appropriate, and in order to ensure good corporate governance, the Executive Chairman is assisted by the Companys independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in ensuring the effective operation of the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board in accordance with the Code provision A.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with board papers and accounts being provided in advance of meetings.
When the Board requests additional information it is provided.
31 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED RE-ELECTION The Companys Articles stipulate that one third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
However, the Code requires that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Therefore all the directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Acknowledging the Code requirement for a particularly rigorous review in circumstances where non-executive directors terms are being extended beyond six years, the Board has determined that all directors continue to make a valuable contribution to the commercial success of the Company, with each bringing a complementary range of skills to the team.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility is to ensure that the remuneration of executive directors is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the highest calibre.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, namely Julian Schild Chairman of the Committee, Melvin Lawson and Michael Pavia.
The Directors Remuneration Report, giving the details of the emoluments of each director, may be found on pages 34 to 39.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
co. uk, which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Melvin Lawson and Julian Schild in compliance with the Code provision C. 3.1.
The activities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 41 and 42.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Audit Committee is mindful of the New Codes requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put external audit contracts out to tender at least every ten years.
On 28 March 2013, the Companys auditor PKF UK LLP PKF, which had been in place for over ten years, announced that its merger with fellow accountancy firm, BDO LLP BDO, had completed.
During PKFs tenure, and in accordance with internal procedures and best practice, audit partners rotated every five years.
The current year represents the fifth and final year for the Companys current audit partner, Jason Homewood.
Therefore in the light of the requirements of the New Code and the associated guidance, the Committee would ordinarily propose that the external audit contract for the coming year be put out to tender.
However, the Committee believes that the merger of PKF and BDO has increased the breadth of resources available to the Company for the conduct of the audit.
Discussions with the combined firm regarding the audit for the coming year indicate that at partner level members of the audit team would likely be drawn from the BDO side.
In practice the Committee therefore feels that the coming years audit will effectively be led by a new audit firm, whilst continuing to benefit from the enhanced audit effectiveness inherent in audit team continuity at levels below partner.
Nonetheless, the Committee is conscious of the principles behind the requirement in the New Code to tender the external audit and will therefore closely monitor the performance, objectivity and independence of BDO in the short term.
Should any concerns arise in these areas then it is likely the Committee will reconsider its position in relation to tendering the audit contract within the ten year period set out in the New Code.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises Michael Pavia Chairman of Committee, Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder and therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the Code provision B.
The main purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors.
32 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
The activities of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 40.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS It is the policy of the Company to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about the objectives of the business.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the executive directors to discuss any relevant matters regarding company performance with major shareholders and that this is undertaken primarily by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Chief Executive provides feedback from major shareholders to the other directors, in order to ensure that Board members, and in particular non-executive directors, develop a balanced understanding of the views of major investors.
The executive directors met with a number of the Companys main shareholders during the year.
The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director also have periodic discussions with the Companys brokers and issues are fed back to the Board as appropriate.
Reports are also received from the Companys brokers following investor presentations.
These reports are submitted to the Board for review.
Additionally the non-executive directors have the opportunity to meet with the Companys brokers to discuss any issues at the Companys Express Day sales conference in March each year.
Responsibility for communication with key shareholders in relation to corporate governance and Board remuneration matters lies primarily with the Deputy Chairman who is assisted in this regard by the Company Secretary.
Individual invitations to engage with the Deputy Chairman were sent out to key shareholders during the year and, where requested, meetings were held to discuss matters in more detail.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each matter including the adoption of the Report and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the appointment of the Groups auditor.
Proxy votes are counted and the meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the remaining non-executive directors are available to answer questions.
Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
However it recognises that any system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In conjunction with the Companys senior management team, the executive directors regularly identify, review and evaluate the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The results of these reviews are recorded in a formal document which sets out a detailed evaluation of each risk and the associated internal control in place to mitigate that risk.
The document is reported to the Audit Committee and the Companys external auditor for review at least once per year.
The Board of directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Company including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and the principal risks which the Company faces during the year.
No material weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year.
The principal risks faced by the Company and the measures taken to address these risks are set out in the Business Review on pages 18 to 20.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS Details of the Companys share capital and substantial shareholdings can be found in the Directors Report under the capital structure and substantial shareholders sections on page 27.
33 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
