BUSINESS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Michael Pavia Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Melvin Lawson in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision C. 3.1.
Michael Pavia is also identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings during the current year by Audit Committee members is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 29 of this document.
In accordance with best practice, the Audit Committee has the opportunity, as required, to meet with the external auditor of the Company without the presence of any executive directors and has done so during the current year.
The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: reviewing the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and the direction of the external auditor to investigate any matters of particular concern: assessing the effectiveness of the Companys external auditor, including considering the scope and results of the annual audit: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and assessing any potential impact on objectivity resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance: and reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and other internal control and risk management processes.
The senior management team and executive directors periodically review the effectiveness of key internal control and risk management processes within the Company and report any changes in such activities to the Audit Committee and the external auditor for consideration.
The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Companys half year and annual financial statements, including a detailed evaluation of the key accounting estimates contained therein.
The Committee concluded that the accounting treatment applied in these instances was appropriate.
Also, in conjunction with the Companys external auditor, the Audit Committee has considered, among other matters, compliance with the provisions of the Code and accounting developments, the Companys financial control environment and its risk management and control processes.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has also considered the need for any special projects or internal investigations and concluded that no such projects or investigations have been required.
Going forward the Committee is mindful of the increasing need for the disclosure of information regarding the Companys environmental impact and will be working to introduce appropriate procedures for the verification of the required disclosures.
In accordance with the Code provision C. 3.5, the Audit Committee has also considered the need for an internal audit function at the Company and has concluded that, in the light of its regular review of the internal controls in place and the report of the external auditor, no such function is currently required.
The external auditor presents a detailed audit report to the Audit Committee following a review of the annual financial statements.
Having regard to its review of the work performed by the external auditor during the year, the Audit Committee remained satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditor.
In relation to the appointment of an external auditor for the coming year, as explained in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 32, PKF completed its merger with fellow accountancy firm BDO on 28 March 2013.
Following an assessment of independent industry reports on BDO, the qualifications, experience and resources of BDO, the Committee has recommended to the Board, for approval by the shareholders at the AGM, the reappointment of BDO as the Companys external auditor for the coming year.
41 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In order to guard against the objectivity and independence of the external auditor being compromised, the provision of any significant additional services aside from audit and tax compliance remains subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee would be likely to prohibit the provision of the following types of non-audit related work by the Companys external auditor: book-keeping and work relating to the preparation of accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: financial information system design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services in respect of material assets: internal auditing: investment advice or corporate broking: and any other work where mutual interests exist that could compromise the independence of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee pre-approved the provision of certain tax and other services to the Company by the external auditor during the year.
The Committee reviewed the services to be provided, and in the light of the nature of the work proposed and the level of the associated fees as set out in note 2 of the financial statements on page 57 of this document, considered that the external auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised and that the external auditor was best placed to provide these services.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Michael Pavia, is the primary point of contact for staff of the Company to raise, in confidence, concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement on the Companys intranet site which sets out Michael Pavias contact details Code provision C. 3.4.
No such matters were raised by employees during the current year.
Michael Pavia Chairman of the Audit Committee On behalf of the Board 20 May 2013 42 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
