28 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance Introduction from the Chairman This section of our report sets out how we manage Tesco to ensure as far as possible that the values you would expect us to operate by are in place and adhered to, that commercial and operational risks are identified and controlled, that we have strategies and plans in place to optimise shareholder value over an appropriate time period and that a proper system of checks and balances is in place without inhibiting the efficient running of the Company.
Our approach to governance remains unchanged from last year.
It begins with the recognition that it is not a set of rules but the framework supporting the core values which defines what is and what is not acceptable.
It is an expression of the way we want to conduct ourselves which informs actions and decisions whether or not there is a specific rule for the situation, and which supports the culture and behaviours that we wish to foster.
The main governance challenges of the past year have been: to bed in the substantially new governance framework we put in place in February 2012: to manage a significant transition in balance and size of the Board, increasing its Non-executive representation relative to Executive Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman within an absolutely smaller Board: and to judge and oversee the execution of a number of significant business initiatives.
In this section The governance framework, and perhaps more importantly the 28 Introduction from the Chairman corporate culture and human relationships that underpin all governance 29 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code frameworks, are operating as we hoped and we do not judge that any further material changes are needed.
The Board The Board now comprises ten Directors, seven of whom excluding 29 Role and responsibilities of the Board the Chairman are Non-executive.
This change in both size and balance 30 Governance structures is supporting the Board to bring a substantial focus on strategic and 31 Board roles longer-term issues.
We do not anticipate further substantial changes 31 Board composition and independence in size in the foreseeable future although the exact number of Directors may rise or fall slightly in line with the normal process of Board 32 Conflicts of interest development and succession planning.
32 Appointments and succession 32 Board induction 32 Information and support 32 Training and development 33 Board attendance 33 Board evaluation Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Committee information 34 Audit Committee 36 Corporate Responsibility Committee 37 Nominations Committee Risk management and internal controls 38 Effectiveness of risk management and internal controls 38 Risk management 38 Principal risks and uncertainties 42 Financial risks review 42 Internal controls 43 Internal Audit 43 External Audit Engagement 43 Engagement OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code These matters are in addition to the work of the Committees, reported The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out principles and to the Board, which covered in detail a range of important matters such specific provisions on how a company should be directed and controlled as remuneration, succession planning, talent development, audit and to achieve standards of good corporate governance.
The Code was social responsibility.
revised in September 2012, with minor changes including a greater focus In addition to its regular programme of activities, the Board made on a companys approach to diversity.
For the 2012 13 financial year, a number of key strategic decisions in the year, including to dispose the Company is required to report against the 2010 version of the Code.
of our business in Japan, to exit the US, to acquire Mobcast and Acopy of the Code is available at www.
a stake in WE7 as part of an online media strategy and to carry The Board considers that Tesco PLC has complied in all material respects out the IPO of a property fund in Thailand.
with the 2010 version of the Code for the whole of the financial year The Board delegates to the Group Chief Executive CEO the ended 23 February 2013. management of the day-to-day operation of the business, in accordance Role and responsibilities of the Board with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board monitors compliance with The Board is the custodian of the Companys Values and of its long-term policies and achievements against objectives by holding management vision, and provides strategic direction and guidance for the Company.
accountable for its activities through regular updates.
In addition, each There are certain matters which are deemed significant enough to be business unit within the Group is required to update the Board on a reserved for only the Boards decision.
These are set out in a schedule regular basis, giving the Board the opportunity to understand and of Matters Reserved to the Board, which was updated in February 2012, explore issues in-depth as appropriate.
as part of a number of changes to our governance framework, to ensure In a constantly evolving and challenging business environment, the that it remained in line with best practice.
Board recognises that our corporate governance framework needs The Boards agenda is determined against a pre-planned template to to continue to adapt so that it remains fit for purpose.
The Board ensure that, in addition to day-to-day matters requiring its attention, will therefore continue to review structures and processes across all relevant issues come to the Board for review at appropriate intervals.
the Group to ensure they remain effective and to make timely changes The Board also receives regular updates, including between meetings when needed to enhance the way the Group operates.
if necessary, on a range of matters including business, financial, legal and corporate affairs.
During the year ended 23 February 2013, the Board considered a wide range of matters, including: the Groups strategy and key priorities: the strategy and performance of key businesses and functions within the Group: the financial position of the Group and various businesses within the Group: the budget and long-term plans for the Group: the interim and full-year results: corporate and social responsibility: shareholder feedback and reports from brokers and analysts: opportunities for business development: risk management and controls within the Group, including a detailed review of the Key Risk Register: reports from the Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee, Nominations Committee, and Remuneration Committee: and a review of the effectiveness of the Board, the Matters Reserved to the Board and the Terms of Reference of Board Committees.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Governance structures Board Chairman Tesco PLC Board Corporate Nominations Audit Remuneration Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Property Social Commercial Compliance Digital Retailing People Matters Technology Strategy Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Committee Committee The Board is supported in its work by the following key committees: Commercial Committee: Nominations Committee: Compliance Committee: Audit Committee: Digital Retailing Committee: Remuneration Committee: and People Matters Group: Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Property Strategy Committee: The work of the Committees is essential to the effective operation of the Social Responsibility Committee: and Board.
The Committees consider in greater depth and detail, on behalf Technology Committee.
of the Board, issues relevant to their Terms of Reference, and report to the Board after every meeting.
The Board is kept up to date with developments in the business, including the work of the Group Executive Committee and its Details of the remit and activities of the Nominations Committee sub-committees, through the CEOs monthly report, which is also can be found on page 37: the Audit Committee on pages 34 to 35: discussed in detail at each Board meeting.
Group Executive Committee the Remuneration Committee on pages 57 to 58: and the Corporate members regularly attend Board meetings to present items and they Responsibility Committee on page 36.
Copies of the Terms of Reference also regularly meet with the Chairman to discuss matters which are of the above committees are available on the Companys website at specific to their area on a less formal basis.
To support the governance structure there are a number of Group The Board delegates responsibility for formulating and, after approval, policies and processes in place.
implementing the Groups strategic plan and for management of the day-to-day operation of the Group to the CEO.
The Group Executive Code of Business Conduct Committee, which the CEO chairs, supports the CEO in carrying out his The Code of Business Conduct explains to colleagues their most role and manages the day-to-day operation of the Groups businesses.
important individual responsibilities and obligations while working The Group Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors for Tesco, and all colleagues must comply with it.
The code provides and a number of senior executives.
Biographies of the members of guidance on key issues which may arise for colleagues and indicates who the Group Executive Committee can be found on pages 26 to 27. they should contact if they think that they, or another colleague, may have breached those rules.
All colleagues are required to provide an The Group Executive Committee has established a number of annual statement of compliance with the terms of the code.
Disciplinary sub-committees which assist it in its work and ensure: action may result from breaches of the code.
strategic choices are properly considered: Whistleblowing new growth opportunities are fully discussed: and The Group operates a Whistleblowing policy which is reviewed annually.
In every business we operate a confidential telephone and email service progress against the Groups priorities is reviewed.
which enables concerned colleagues to report, anonymously if they The membership of each of the sub-committees comprises an choose, any instances of inappropriate behaviour or malpractice within appropriate mix of Group Executive Committee members and senior the business.
Such issues include unethical or illegal behaviour such as management from relevant functions.
The CEO chairs all of these bribery and corruption, fraud, dishonesty and any practices which may committees.
The sub-committees report to the Group Executive prejudice or endanger our colleagues, customers or the environment.
Committee after each of their meetings on their work and issues are escalated for discussion and or decision to the Group Executive Committee or the Board as appropriate.
The key committees are: OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 31 All complaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated by Senior Independent Director the relevant department and where the individual provides their identity, Patrick Cescau was the Senior Independent Director SID throughout they are kept updated.
Where there is a serious issue, it will be escalated the year.
Patrick was selected in July 2010 for the role because of his to the CEO of the relevant business.
This policy is monitored by the experience and expertise, both as an Executive and as a Non-executive compliance committees in each business, as well as by the Group Director.
A biography is available on page 24.
In his role as SID, Patrick Compliance Committee and the Group Audit Committee annually.
Cescau is available to assist in resolving shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted.
The SIDs role includes responsibility Anti-corruption for the Chairmans appraisal and succession: and to hold at least one We seek to maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity in meeting each year with the Non-executive Directors without the the way we do business around the world.
Bribery and corruption in all Chairman present.
Those responsibilities were fulfilled during the forms are illegal and unacceptable.
Any act of fraud, bribery or corruption past year.
would be treated with extreme seriousness by Tesco and our Group CEO has communicated our zero-tolerance approach to all forms of bribery Non-executive Directors and corruption to all colleagues.
We expect our business partners to Our Non-executive Directors have the wide range of skills and adopt the same approach.
In accordance with our anti-bribery and experience necessary to enable them to provide constructive challenge, corruption policy, the CEO of each business is responsible for ensuring scrutinise performance and help to develop our strategy.
Biographies compliance with all local legislation and Company policies and for are available on pages 24 to 25. reporting on this area to the Group Compliance Committee, which Company Secretary is chaired by the Group CEO.
To ensure the implementation of our The Group Company Secretary is responsible for developing, bribery and corruption policy, key colleagues across the business have implementing and sustaining high standards of corporate governance.
completed anti-bribery training, using an e-learning tool which includes Key responsibilities include: training on the UK Bribery Act, as well as our policy, and requires them to pass an assessment.
Annual refresher training is also provided.
keeping abreast of legislation, regulation and corporate governance developments which impact the business and advising the Board Board roles accordingly: The Chairman and CEO There is a clear delineation between the roles of the Chairman and CEO.
supporting the Chairman and other Board members as necessary, Their role descriptions were updated and agreed by the Board in 2012 including the management of Board and Committee meetings and are summarised below.
and their evaluation, advising on Directors duties and facilitating information flows: The Chairman was independent upon his appointment to the Board.
He leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness while taking account of when appropriate, providing a discreet but challenging voice to the interests of the Groups various stakeholders, and promoting high the Board: standards of corporate governance.
The Chairman has regular one-tocommunicating with shareholders and other stakeholders and one meetings with the CEO and other members of the Group Executive ensuring that the Board is kept informed of their opinions: and Committee.
He also has one-to-one and group meetings with the Nonexecutive Directors.
The CEO leads the development of strategy and ensuring that the Company is compliant with statutory and regulatory manages all aspects of the performance and management of the Group.
The main responsibilities of the Chairman and CEO include: Board composition and independence During the year, the Board was intentionally managed to a smaller size Chairmans responsibilities and, within that, proportionally greater Non-executive representation Ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information relative to Executive.
These changes were designed to support the Board in focusing more of its attention on the strategic and longer-term Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and opportunities and challenges facing the business, and to underpin the the engagement between Executive and Non-executive Directors trust and respect necessary to create a collegiate, unitary Board within Ensuring an annual evaluation of the Board is conducted and leading which debate can be robust, open and transparent.
the performance evaluation of the CEO and Non-executive Directors and ensuring that Committee Chairmen conduct evaluations of their In light of the changed balance of the Board, a series of steps have Committees been taken to ensure that Non-executive Directors maintain line of sight into business operations: share thinking and views on business issues Building an effective Board among each other and with management: and have the opportunity The induction of new Directors and further training for all Directors to form first-hand relationships with senior management, especially as appropriate the Group Executive Committee and those below identified as having Communicating effectively with shareholders and other stakeholders leadership potential.
and ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the view of stakeholders As at 23 February 2013, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised the Non-executive Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, two Executive Group CEOs responsibilities Directors and six Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
On 1 April 2013, Leading the development of the Companys strategic direction and a further Non-executive Director, Olivia Garfield, was appointed bringing implementing the agreed strategy the total Board size up to ten.
We do not anticipate further substantial Identifying and executing new business opportunities changes in size in the foreseeable future, although the exact number Managing the Groups risk profile and implementing and maintaining of Directors may rise or fall slightly in line with the normal process of an effective framework of internal controls Board development and succession planning.
Building and maintaining an effective top management team Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and key stakeholders and regularly updating institutional investors on the business strategy and performance 32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued The following changes to the Board took place during the year ended Conflicts of interest 23February 2013 and between that date and the date of publication The Company has comprehensive procedures in place to deal with any of this document: situation where a Director has an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Under these procedures the Board is required to: Changes to the Board since 23 February 2012 consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: Deanna Oppenheimer Non-executive Appointed to the Board consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their Director with effect from 1 March duties under the Companies Act 2006: 2012 keep appropriate records and Board minutes demonstrating any Richard Brasher Executive Stepped down from the authorisation granted by the Board for such conflict and the scope Director Board on 15 March 2012 of any approvals given: and Andrew Higginson Executive Retired from the Board regularly review conflict authorisations.
Director on 1 September 2012 Appointments and succession Tim Mason Executive Stepped down from the Board development is a continuous process.
We are constantly assessing Director Board on 5 December what the appropriate mix of skills and experience should be for the 2012 Board, given the diverse markets the Group operates in and the breadth Lucy Neville-Rolfe Executive Retired from the Board of operations and services offered.
We also ensure plans are in place to Director on 2 January 2013 support succession for all key Board roles.
Further details of the Board appointment process can be found in the Nominations Committee Karen Cook Non-executive Retired from the Board section on page 37 and biographies of our Directors can be found Director on 23 February 2013 on pages 24 to 25.
Ken Hydon Non-executive Retired from the Board Board induction Director on 23 February 2013 All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is Changes to the Board since 23 February 2013 designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups Olivia Garfield Non-executive Appointed to the Board culture and operations.
The programme has evolved over time to take Director with effect from 1 April into account feedback from new Directors and the development of best 2013 practice, and includes a wide-ranging programme of meetings with senior management from across the Group, attending results and broker Our Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three briefings, comprehensive briefing materials and opportunities to visit the years, subject to a remaining independent: and b provision B.
7.1 of Groups operations across the world including spending time in-store the Code, which requires all directors to be re-elected by shareholders and in our distribution network.
The Chairman agrees the personalised annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM : and may induction plan with each new Director and ensures that it meets the be reappointed for further periods of three years.
The Board makes a individual needs of that Director.
careful assessment of the time commitment required from the Chairman Information and support and Non-executive Directors to discharge their roles properly.
This is During the year we reviewed the information provided to the Board, discussed with potential candidates as part of the recruitment process with a view to creating a suite of information which covers the right and a commitment to the appropriate time requirement is included in ground in a focused way to support the Boards pattern of meetings, their engagement letters.
The independence of each Non-executive as well as ensuring that Directors receive appropriate information in Director is reviewed annually by the Chairman as part of the the periods between meetings in a form consistent with the information performance review process.
The terms and conditions of appointment of our Non-executive Directors Board papers are circulated a week before each meeting to give the are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at Directors and Committee members sufficient time to fully consider our AGM.
Length of service of each Non-executive Director All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense Years in post Non-executive Director Date of appointment at 2013 AGM in conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its Directors and Officers.
Sir Richard Broadbent 2 July 2011 2 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 1 January 2009 4 Training and development The Chairman reviews the Directors development needs as part Patrick Cescau 1 February 2009 4 of the annual performance evaluation process and puts appropriate Ken Hanna 1 April 2009 4 arrangements in place for specific training.
The Nominations Committee Gareth Bullock 3 July 2010 3 reviews the Directors skills and experience as a group against those Stuart Chambers 3 July 2010 3 needed to continue to enable the Board to oversee and support the Deanna Oppenheimer 1 March 2012 1 Groups diverse operations in the future, and identifies any gaps.
This Olivia Garfield 1 April 2013 informs the approach to ongoing refreshing of the Board as well as the training plan for the current members of the Board.
Training is arranged Executive Directors are permitted to hold one FTSE 100 external Nonto help develop the knowledge and skills of the Directors in a variety of executive Directorship, although none of the Executive Directors do.
areas relevant to the Groups business, including social, environmental and ethical issues.
In the last year the Board received training focusing, Biographies of the Board are available on pages 24 to 25. among other things, on the global macroeconomic outlook and social trends.
Further training in a number of key areas is planned for Directors in the coming year, including developments and opportunities in relation to digital and their obligations as directors of a listed company.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 The Board holds at least one in-depth session a year focusing on one In the current year, the Board will move to a pattern of six formal of the Groups key areas of business, with the aim of broadening and meetings annually, plus a strategy meeting.
Board meetings will be deepening the Directors understanding of that business.
In March 2012 preceded by a day of Committee meetings and by a dinner the previous the Board carried out an in-depth review of our UK business.
Board meetings themselves will last substantially the whole day.
trips allow the Directors to view first-hand the progress, development, This pattern of meetings is intended to support the Boards focus on the challenges and direction of our businesses, as well as meeting our teams strategic and long-term while ensuring it can discharge its monitoring in those businesses.
and oversight role effectively through intensive high-quality meetings and high-quality information flows.
This pattern of meetings also serves Board attendance to broaden the pool of international talent and working executives able The Board held eight scheduled meetings in the year ended 23 February to take up a non-executive role.
2013, including the AGM, and ad hoc meetings were also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The effectiveness of this approach will be reviewed at the end of the year.
It is expected that all Directors attend scheduled Board and relevant Committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by Board evaluation prior commitments, and that all Directors will attend the AGM.
Where The Board conducted an external evaluation in 2011 12 with the support Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the papers of Egon Zehnder, which has no other connection with the Company.
scheduled for discussion in the relevant meetings, giving them the In 2012 13 we conducted an internal Board evaluation.
The evaluation opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the Chairman considered a range of factors relevant to the effectiveness of the in advance of the meeting.
Board, including: the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board, its diversity and how the Board works together Following each meeting the Chairman briefs any member not present as a unit.
The review was led by the SID, supported by the Company on the discussions and any decisions taken at the meeting.
Directors leave Secretary and combined in-depth interviews with each Director and the meeting where matters relating to them, or which may constitute a questionnaire completed by members of the Board.
The results of the a conflict of interest for them, are being discussed.
review were considered in detail by the Board, which recognised that The table below records attendance at the meetings of the Board: a number of improvements had taken place during the year, while also noting an appetite for continuing to push the agenda towards more Board attendance strategic discussion.
The Board agreed a number of actions to be taken in the coming year.
Number of possible Actual Annual reviews of the performance of the Remuneration and Audit meetings meetings Committees have been carried out, led by each Committees Chairman.
attended attended These reviews have confirmed that each Committee continues to Non-executive Directors operate effectively and in each case a number of actions were agreed Sir Richard Broadbent 8 8 to further improve the effectiveness of the relevant committee.
Reviews Gareth Bullock 8 8 of the effectiveness of the Nominations Committee and Corporate Patrick Cescau 8 8 Responsibility Committee will be held in the 2013 14 year.
Stuart Chambers 8 8 Our CEO reviewed the performance of the CFO and the Chairman Ken Hanna 8 8 has reviewed the performance of the CEO and each Non-executive Deanna Oppenheimer 8 8 Director.
The Non-executive Directors led by the SID have reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
Having completed these evaluations, Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 8 8 the CEO, Chairman, Non-executive Directors and SID have confirmed Executive Directors that each individual whose performance they have assessed continues Philip Clarke 8 8 to be effective and committed to their role.
Laurie McIlwee 8 8 During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors, Past Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present, to discuss a number of matters.
Karen Cook 8 6 Ken Hydon 8 7 Past Executive Directors Andrew Higginson 4 Tim Mason 6 6 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 7 7 34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee responsibilities Audit Committee The Committees Terms of Reference can be found at www.
The Committee Chairman, Ken Hanna, and Gareth Bullock, a member of the Committee, both have recent and relevant financial experience.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports to the Committee and their independence, including an assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work: review the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial performance of the Company: review the internal audit programme and ensure that the Internal Audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Company: discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit: review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: formally review the effectiveness of the external and internal audit processes: consider managements response to any major External or Internal Audit recommendations: Ken Hanna Audit Committee Chairman review the Companys plans for business continuity: review the Companys plans for the prevention and detection Audit Committee attendance of fraud, bribery and corruption: and Number of report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
possible Actual meetings meetings During the year the Committee received update reports from a number attended attended of businesses, including the Bank and from Internal Audit on its work, Members including findings from its internal audit programme.
The Committee Ken Hanna Chairman since 5 October 2012 5 5 also considered a variety of matters including the Group Finance Risk Gareth Bullock 5 5 Register, the arrangements for IT governance and business continuity, Patrick Cescau 5 4 the Grocery Supply Chain Compliance Code and Whistleblowing Past members arrangements.
Ken Hydon Chairman until 5 October 2012 3 3 In relation to the financial statements the Committee: reviewed and recommended approval of the quarterly, and half-yearly results and Introduction from the Committee Chairman annual financial statements: conducted impairment reviews: reviewed Our business operates in an increasingly challenging environment, and recommended dividend levels: reviewed corporate governance particularly with regard to economic, reputational, political and disclosures: and monitored the statutory audit.
Consequently we have seen a trend towards The Committee continually assesses the need for training and increasing risks in the business.
The role of the Audit Committee is the annual agenda provides substantial time for technical updates now more important than ever in reviewing the effectiveness of the which are generally provided by external experts.
During the year Groups internal controls, providing assurance on the Group risk training was provided on: UK Financial Reporting Councils guidance management processes and assessing and acting upon information of listed companies: developments in corporate governance: the received by external auditors and Internal Audit.
We keep the current outputs from the Financial Reporting Review Panel: and regulatory risk management and internal controls framework under review, updates including: the Competition Commissions issues statement: to ensure that it adapts to the changing environment and remains the European Commissions proposals for audit reform: IASB as robust as it can be.
updates on reporting: direct and indirect tax: pensions: capital Ken Hanna Audit Committee Chairman markets: sustainability: assurance and remuneration.
Training is also provided on an ongoing basis to meet the specific needs of individual committee members.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35  LLP PwC has served as the Companys auditors since 1983.
The partner engaged on the audit is changed regularly.
The services provided by PwC have been reviewed periodically and the Audit Committee is satisfied that they remain appropriately independent and are best placed to conduct the Companys audit for 2013 14.
The Committee therefore recommended PwC be reappointed as the Companys auditors.
It is essential for the Committee to be able to have an honest and open relationship with both its external and internal auditors.
This relationship is developed and maintained through regular private meetings with both PwC and the Head of Internal Audit.
Further information on the role of the external auditors and our Non-audit Service Policy can be found on page 43.
The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by key stakeholders including the Board, the Executive Committee, members of senior management and Internal Audit.
The questionnaire assesses the external audit in the following areas: qualification: expertise and resources: operational effectiveness: independence and leadership.
The results are rated against an ideal standard and compared to prior years to assess the consistency of performance.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was assessed by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by key stakeholders including members of senior management and the external auditors.
The assessment covers the Internal Audit functions understanding of its role and responsibility, its charter, the quality of its communications, its performance and the skills and experience of the function.
The Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness during the year, by the Committee Chairman conducting interviews with key stakeholders and the use of a questionnaire.
The Committee concluded that it continued to be effective and has sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
36 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee responsibilities Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee was established in 2012 to ensure that the Board maintains an adequate focus on corporate responsibility in its widest sense.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available at www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: define the Groups corporate and social obligations as a responsible corporate citizen and oversee its conduct in the context of those obligations: approve a strategy for discharging the Groups corporate and social responsibilities in such a way as to command respect and confidence: identify and monitor those external developments which are likely to have a significant influence on the Groups reputation and or its ability to conduct its business appropriately as a good corporate citizen and review how best to protect that reputation or that ability: oversee the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures: monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and other interested parties: and ensure that appropriate communications policies are in place and working effectively to build and protect the Groups reputation both internally and externally.
Sir Richard Broadbent Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman During the year we introduced a new Core Purpose: We make what matters better, together.
Millions of customers come to us for the food and products they need for their lives.
What matters to them is that we make the little things better, providing millions of great value products, Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance safely and conveniently every day.
Today, we have hundreds of thousands of colleagues, tens of thousands of suppliers and distributors, and we are Number of possible Actual significant in thousands of communities around the world.
We have meetings meetings also articulated a new Value to help us achieve our Core Purpose: We use attended attended our scale for good.
Our scale gives us an opportunity to make a positive Members difference to some of the biggest challenges facing the world.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 4 4 The Committee spent time during the year considering reputational Patrick Cescau 4 3 research and giving thought to where we are most relevant and where Deanna Oppenheimer 4 4 we have an authentic contribution to make.
The output was establishing Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 4 4 our three big ambitions: to create new opportunities for millions of young people around Introduction from the Chairman the world: Corporate responsibility is not new or optional.
It reflects the inescapable reality that if the values of a business fail to resonate with the values to help and encourage our colleagues and customers to live healthier of society, it is endangering its long-term prosperity.
For the Board lives and through this help to tackle the global obesity crisis: and therefore, whose role it is to define and uphold the values of the to lead in reducing food waste globally.
business, corporate responsibility is not just an ethical issue.
It is central to defining Tescos identity, and defining The Committee has regularly been updated on the work in these areas it in a way that integrates our customers values with our own.
The and discussed the proposed approach to developing targets to measure establishment of the Corporate Responsibility Committee reflects progress against these ambitions.
Tescos commitment to identifying and living by values which are Further information is available in our Tesco and Society Report 2013, important to our colleagues and customers.
which is available on our website at www.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was created by the Board to ensure, reflecting this reality, that the Board gives adequate attention to this subject.
The full ambit of the Committees work can be gauged by reading the Tesco and Society Report 2013 being published today to accompany our Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This sets out our thinking and our ambitions as they relate to our responsibility in society and how we discharge it.
Sir Richard Broadbent Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 During the year consideration was given to finding a new Non-executive Nominations Committee Director ahead of the retirement of Ken Hydon and Karen Cook from the Board on 23 February 2013.
Olivia Garfield joined the Board as Nominations Committee attendance a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2013.
A biography is available on Number of page 25. possible Actual meetings meetings The Committee considers a number of factors when making new attended attended appointments, including what the new Director will add to the balance Members of skills and experience on the Board: and whether the Director will be Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman 5 5 able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his or her Patrick Cescau 5 5 responsibilities.
We work with a number of independent external executive search companies, as well as using our own networks to Stuart Chambers 5 5 identify candidates with the right skills and experience to fulfil our needs.
Ken Hanna 5 5 The Committee also discussed the challenges and actions relating Introduction from the Chairman to succession and leadership and reviewed the managements development and succession plans to ensure the business has the right The Nominations Committee has developed its role over the past year in line with the broader terms of reference that were put in place at the capabilities and capacities for the future, with a focus on areas such as increasing the number of women in senior roles, the under 35s beginning of the year.
In a year of planned but rapid change in both executive management and on the Board, the Committee has been very and increasing the number of local nationals in senior roles.
conscious of the need to assess and manage the risks that such change Diversity brings and to ensure that where risk is taken on, it is because it offers Tesco approaches diversity in its broadest sense, recognising that the optimal way forward.
successful world-class businesses flourish through embracing intellectual, In relation to executive management, an exceptionally long period experiential, geographical and skills diversity as well as other factors such of stability inevitably meant that change, when it came, would be broadly as age, disability, gender, race and sexual orientation.
The Committee supported the CEO in developing his executive gender diversity, which is the focus of significant current attention, we team through the year, a process which is now substantially complete.
accept the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report, including the representation of women at the highest levels in the organisation.
In relation to the Board, the Committee oversaw a substantial change in its composition, to an overall smaller size, and its balance, with a There are currently three women on our Board 30%, three women on the Executive Committee 19% and women in senior management proportionally greater representation of Non-executive Directors than Executive Directors.
positions across the Group account for 31% as a whole.
We believe that the focus must remain firmly on understanding what it takes to develop Aside from these changes, the Committee, supported by the CEO, has women and to retain them in senior positions.
Senior roles are very instituted a cycle of reviews of bench strength, succession and talent demanding for all regardless of gender and we are determined to development to ensure that Tesco maximises the considerable value develop a culture and an environment where our people can advance of its human capital which has a breadth of skill and experience not whilst having the time to be good partners, parents and active members commonly available.
Sir Richard Broadbent Nominations Committee Chairman Our policy is to find, develop and keep a diverse workforce at all levels within our Company and we are committed to increasing the percentage Nominations Committee responsibilities of female leaders.
We set a target in September 2011 for women to The Committees Terms of Reference are available at www.
represent 32% of senior managers and 20% of business leaders and Where matters discussed relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Directors.
We are close to achieving this target with 31% of senior Non-executive Director chairs the meeting.
managers and 19% of business leaders and Directors being women.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition: identifying, nominating and reviewing candidates for appointment to the Board: putting in place plans for succession: reviewing the leadership needs of the organisation, both Executive and Non-executive: reviewing the Groups talent planning programmes: reviewing Board succession over the longer term, in order to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refresh of the Board: and monitoring the Groups compliance with corporate governance guidelines.
38 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Effectiveness of risk management and internal controls The Group also maintains a Group Key Risk Register which describes A successful risk management process balances risks and rewards and the key risks faced by the Group and assesses their likelihood and relies on sound judgement of their likelihood and impact.
Accepting that impact, as well as the controls and procedures implemented to risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk management processes mitigate them.
The Group risks are determined by discussion with are designed to encourage entrepreneurial spirit and also provide senior management and are reviewed by the Group Executive assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
Committee and then agreed by the Board.
In addition to reviewing the Group Risk Register, the Board carries out in-depth reviews A key part of an effective risk management process is ensuring that of key risk areas each year.
our colleagues have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a Principal risks and uncertainties structured communications programme that provides colleagues with Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
The real challenge for clarity on these matters.
This ensures that all our colleagues understand any business is to identify the principal risks it faces and to develop what is expected of them and that decision-making takes place at the and monitor appropriate controls.
The table below sets out the principal risks faced by the Group, and The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group has examples of relevant key controls and mitigating factors.
The Board appropriate risk management and internal controls in place and that considers these to be the most significant risks faced by the Group.
They they continue to work effectively.
The key arrangements put in place to do not comprise all the risks associated with the Group and they are not enable the Board to discharge its responsibility and for all the members set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks not presently known to of the Board to satisfy themselves with the integrity of the Groups management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have financial information, financial controls and risk management systems an adverse effect on the business.
There has been a trend towards increasing net risk during the year, Risk management and in particular the likelihood of risks occuring, driven in the majority There is a comprehensive process for the review and consideration of cases by the global economic and regulatory environment in which of risk at Tesco.
Risk Registers are in place for all businesses and some the business operates.
Political, regulatory and economic risks have key Group functions also maintain a specific Risk Register.
Risk Registers therefore seen an increase in net risk rating, whilst the risks relating are considered regularly by the management of relevant businesses.
to business strategy and property are considered to have decreased as a result of the Groups strategic changes during the year.
Principal risks Key controls and mitigating factors Business strategy If our strategy follows the wrong direction or is not effectively Diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets under communicated or implemented, the business may suffer our strategy continues to reduce reliance on limited business areas Regular review of strategic matters by Board and Executive Committee: Board dedicates two full days a year to Group strategy.
Decisive action is taken on strategy as appropriate, including recent decisions regarding operations in Japan and the US see the Report from the Chief Executive for more details New structure of Executive sub-committees is designed to focus on key risks through the work of the Group Commercial, Compliance, Digital Retailing, Technology, People Matters Group, Property Strategy and Social Responsibility Committees Significant resource invested to communicate strategy effectively to those delivering it Consistent Operational Plans developed throughout the Group to ensure delivery Steering Wheel balanced scorecard system helps monitor delivery Structured stakeholder engagement programmes Financial strategy Risks relate to an incorrect or unclear financial strategy and the Regular review of strategy, risks and financial performance by Board failure to achieve financial plans and Executive Committee, with external advice as required Balance Sheet Committee regularly reviews gearing and net debt management Consistent Operational Plans and Budgets developed throughout the Group to ensure delivery Steering Wheel balanced scorecard system helps monitor delivery Structured stakeholder engagement programmes Competition and consolidation Failure to compete on areas including price, product range, quality Strategy to have broad appeal on price, range and store format and service in increasingly competitive UK and overseas retail to allow us to compete in different markets markets could impact our market share and adversely affect Regular review of markets, trading opportunities and competitor the Groups financial results activities, including online, by Executive Committee, Digital Committee and Trading Groups The consolidation of competitors, key geographical areas or markets Increased global marketing effort to maximise the impact of our through mergers or trade agreements could also adversely impact brand and intellectual property our market share Performance tracked against relevant KPIs and measures that customers tell us are critical to their shopping experience Constant monitoring of customer perceptions of Tesco and competitors to ensure we can respond quickly as appropriate Monitoring of legislative changes, legal framework and compliance OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Principal risks Key controls and mitigating factors Reputational risk Failure to protect the Groups reputation and brand in the face of Tesco Values embedded in how we do business at every level ethical, legal or moral challenges could lead to a loss of trust and Our embedded Group Code of Business Conduct and Bribery Act confidence, a decline in customer base and affect our ability to Guidelines guide our behaviour in dealing with customers, recruit and retain good people employees and suppliers Stakeholder communication and engagement to understand their views and reflect them in our strategy Commitment to tackling societal and environmental issues through our Community Plan and activities.
Our new Value We use our scale for good aims to tackle some of the most important issues for society see our Tesco and Society Report 2013 for more details Comprehensive supplier auditing and product surveillance programmes in place to minimise risks associated with labour standards and product integrity Governance committees, including Executive, Group Commercial, Corporate Responsibility, Social Responsibility, Compliance and Information Security Committees, guide and monitor policies Performance risk in the business Risk that business units including the UK underperform against Board, Executive Committee and various operational committees, plan and against competitors and our business fails to meet including the UK Operating Board, meet regularly to review the stated strategy in full performance risks All business units have stretching targets based on the Steering Wheel balanced scorecard system: performance against budgets and KPIs are monitored continually and reported regularly to Board Clear budgets, goals and objectives set for subsidiary CEOs, with a high proportion of reward based on achievement Diversification strategy minimises impact of changes in economic climate Property Continuing acquisition and development of property sites carries Group Property Strategy, Property Acquisition and related inherent risk: targets to deliver new space may not be achieved: committees regularly review, and closely control, all aspects challenges may arise in relation to finding suitable sites, obtaining of property acquisition, planning and construction processes planning or other consents and compliance with varying country to ensure standards are met and risks are minimised design and construction standards Group Property blueprints adopted to ensure consistency of approach Group and country Compliance Committees monitor legal and regulatory compliance in property activities Mall management systems in place to assist tenant management Economic risks In each country where we operate, we are impacted by the External economic outlook is carefully considered when developing underlying economic environment and the fiscal measures strategy and continuously monitored through the Executive that apply to the retail sector Committees review of performance A central Euro Disaster Committee monitors developments in the Eurozone Ongoing monitoring of country developments through local CEOs We try to anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy wherever we operate Political and regulatory risks In each country where we operate, we may be impacted by legal Engagement with governmental and non-governmental and regulatory changes, increased scrutiny by competition organisations to represent views of our customers and employees authorities and political developments relevant to domestic Ongoing monitoring of country developments through local CEOs trade and the retail sector Group and country Compliance Committees monitor legal and regulatory compliance The Tesco Bank Executive and Treating Customers Fairly Board oversee Tesco Banks compliance with regulatory requirements Compliance with the UK Groceries Supply Code of Practice Code is carefully monitored by our Code Compliance Officer We try to anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy wherever we operate Business development follows thorough due diligence work 40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Principal risks Key controls and mitigating factors Product safety Failures could damage customer trust and confidence, impacting our Group Product Policy adopted, implemented and monitored across customer base and therefore financial results the business by our technical teams Controls in place around key risks including product integrity: approval and management of supplier sites: standards in store and distribution centres: competency of our people: management of crises, emerging issues and changes in regulatory standards Detailed, established procedures, operating globally, to ensure product integrity Product surveillance programmes in place including our new DNA traceability programme Regular reporting to local and Group Compliance Committees on management of risks associated with products, suppliers and operations IT systems and infrastructure Any significant failure in the IT processes of our retail operations would IT strategy is approved and reviewed by the Executive Committee impact our ability to trade.
Failure to invest appropriately in IT could to ensure that investments in IT systems and innovations improve increase our vulnerability to attack, constrain the growth of the business efficiency and customers shopping experience business and fail to safeguard personnel, supplier or customer data Group Technology Committee monitors controls to maintain integrity and efficiency of IT infrastructure and data Information Security Committee meets regularly to review the development and implementation of policies Rigorous governance processes for new and modified systems implementations Processes to deal with significant IT security incidents Sharing of systems across international operations to ensure consistency of delivery People Failure to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with People Matters Group PMG regularly meets to review and the right capabilities at all levels could limit our ability to succeed monitor all people policies, procedures and risks Clear processes to understand and respond to employees needs through our PMG, colleague surveys, regular performance reviews, involvement of trade unions in relevant markets and regular communication of business developments Talent planning and people development is a key objective for each member of the Executive Committee Significant investment in training, development and incentives, including Executive Committee Talent Cycle, Talent Planning, Leadership Development and succession planning for future needs of the business Pay, pension and share plan arrangements help us to attract and retain good people Group Treasury Failure to ensure the availability of funds to meet the needs of the An annual Finance Plan and General Board Authority set out business or to manage interest or exchange rate fluctuations could the controls and authority limits for all Treasury matters limit our ability to trade profitably.
Further detail on the management The Balance Sheet Committee meets regularly to monitor of financial risks can be found in the Financial risks review table on Treasury risks and manage the liquidity needs of the business page 42 and in Note 22 of the financial statements An annual Treasury Review is carried out by the Executive Committee Comprehensive Treasury Policies set out processes and controls around the use of financial instruments, hedging, liquidity, bank account management and the segregation of duties required between our back and front offices OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Principal risks Key controls and mitigating factors Tesco Bank The impact on the Group of financial risks taken by Tesco Bank The Bank has a defined Risk Appetite, approved and regularly reviewed by both the Banks Board and the Tesco PLC Board, which sets out the key risks, their optimum ranges, alert limits and the controls required to manage them within their approved tolerance limits There is a comprehensive structure of governance and oversight in place to ensure the Bank complies with all applicable laws and regulations Pensions Our IAS 19 deficit could increase if there is a fall in corporate bond Diversified investment strategy with increased control and visibility yields which is not offset by an increase in the pension schemes through the appointment of an in-house investment team assets.
There are also increasing risks of legal and regulatory changes Changes to benefits were introduced in 2012 to reduce the introducing more burdensome requirements schemes life expectancy and inflation risks Appointment of a new Audit and Risk Pensions Committee to provide greater visibility and internal controls of pension and investment risks Monthly review by Pensions and Treasury Directors External advisors and pension fund trustees fully engaged to consider deficit and fund performance and legislative and regulatory changes and their impact Fraud, compliance and internal controls As the business develops new platforms and grows in both size and Appropriate procedures and controls including Group Accounting geographical scope, the potential for fraud and dishonest activity by Policy, key financial controls, IT access controls and segregation of our suppliers, customers and employees increases duties are set out across the business to reduce fraud risks Compliance Committee monitors implementation of, and compliance with, relevant policies and procedures An annual governance return is completed by each business unit Clear behavioural guidance given to employees through training on Tesco Values, the Group Code of Business Conduct, the UK Bribery Act and our Whistleblowing service Protector Line Internal Audit undertakes risk-based programmes and detailed investigations into all business areas and reports its findings to the Audit Committee Group Loss Prevention & Security monitors fraud, bribery and business continuity across the Group and reports its findings to the Audit Committee Store and distribution compliance and technical law and trading reviews conducted regularly to reinforce compliance across the estate Information Security Committee regularly reviews IT incidents External Audit rotational coverage of areas and assessment of controls Business continuity and crisis management A major incident or activism could impact on colleague safety or the Appropriate business continuity plans and crisis management plans Groups ability to trade are in place for each business area Disaster recovery plans are in place for key IT systems and data centres Security systems and processes that reflect best practice are also in place to review the risks of incidents or activism across the Group including liaison with the UK National Co-ordinator for Counterterrorism 42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate governance continued Financial risks review The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and credit risks relating to the risk of default by parties to financial transactions.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Details of the main financial risks relating to Tesco Bank and the management of those risks can be found in Note 22 to the financial statements on page 108.
Financial risk Risk management Funding and The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, disposals of property assets, debt capital market issues, liquidity commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases.
The objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
The policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities and a strong credit rating so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
The Group has a long-term rating of BBB stable from Fitch, Baa1 stable from Moodys and BBB stable from Standard & Poors.
New funding of 1.4 billion was raised during the year from property disposals.
At the year end, net debt was 6.6 billion 2012: 6.8 billion.
Interest rate risk Our objective is to limit the impact to our profit and loss from rising interest rates.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate management swaps, caps and floors may be used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Our policy is to fix interest rates for the year on a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt interest costs of the Group excluding Tesco Bank.
At the year end, the percentage of interest bearing debt at fixed rates was 75% 2012: 90%.
The remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate form.
The average rate of interest paid on an historic cost basis this year, excluding joint ventures and associates, was 4.8% 2012: 4.8%.
Foreign currency Our principal objective is to reduce the effect of exchange rate volatility on operating margins.
Transactional currency risk management exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are managed, typically using forward purchases or sales of foreign currencies and purchased currency options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 1,835 million were outstanding 2012: 1,944 million as detailed in Note 21.
We translate overseas profits at average foreign exchange rates.
We only hedge a proportion of the investment in our international subsidiaries as well as ensuring that each subsidiary is appropriately hedged in respect of its non-functional currency assets.
During the year, currency movements increased the net value, after the effects of hedging, of the Groups overseas assets by 420 million last year decrease of 22 million.
Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from default by parties to financial transactions.
The Group holds positions with an approved list of counterparties of good credit quality and these counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Insurance We purchased assets, earnings and combined liability protection from the open insurance market for higher value losses only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the business with some cover being provided by our captive insurance companies, ELH Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
ELH Insurance Limited covers Assets, Earnings and Combined Liability, while Valiant Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability only.
Internal controls The Internal Audit programmes covering key financial controls have The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls been aligned with this framework to ensure consistency of approach.
and for reviewing their effectiveness.
As part of the year end process, There are a number of key committees which play a role in monitoring the CEOs of all international businesses, the UK core business and other compliance with internal controls.
relevant material businesses in the UK, are required to certify that their business has operated in compliance with applicable governance and The Group Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance requirements, policies and legislation during the year.
compliance across the Group, including receiving reports from the The details of any incidences of non-compliance must be disclosed and individual business unit compliance committees.
It also reviews local a report of the responses is reviewed by Internal Audit and the Group policies and approves changes and exceptions to those policies.
During the year it met six times and covered topics on social, environmental, ethical, operational, commercial and corporate, Colleagues are required to confirm annually that they have complied property and financial matters.
with the Code of Business Conduct which sets out the individual obligations and responsibilities for anyone working at Tesco.
More The Audit Committee reports to the Board each year on its assessment details on this code can be found on page 30. of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems for the financial year and the period to the date of approval of the Group Finance is responsible for preparing the Group financial financial statements.
Throughout the year the Committee receives statements, using a well-controlled consolidation process.
Group regular reports from the external auditors covering topics such as quality Finance contains a technical accounting team, which reviews external of earnings and technical accounting developments.
Internal Audit and technical accounting developments, financial reporting and accounting senior management also regularly provide updates to the Committee.
It is also responsible for maintaining a mandatory Group accounting policy manual, which is in accordance with International All systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, Financial Reporting Standards.
Group Finance maintains its own assurance against material statement or loss.
The Board has conducted Risk Register and assesses its own controls systems.
During the year a review of the effectiveness of internal controls and is satisfied that the Group Finance has taken steps to make its processes more robust by controls in place remain appropriate.
developing a key financial control framework to describe a mandatory suite of controls across key business processes.
Compliance is being monitored by management by means of an annual self-assessment programme which is being rolled out across the Group.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Internal Audit Stakeholder engagement The Internal Audit function is independent of business operations and We engage regularly with our colleagues to invite them to give us their has a Group-wide mandate.
It undertakes a continuous programme to thoughts on how the business is run and how they feel about working address internal control and risk management processes with particular for Tesco.
We also engage with unions in the UK and our other markets reference to the Code.
It operates a risk-based methodology, ensuring to discuss employee matters and business developments.
During the that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular examination.
Its year we also carried out over 50 high-level stakeholder interviews responsibilities include: including supranational organisations, NGOs, charities, leading academics, politicians and activists.
They gave us valuable insight into maintaining the Key Risk Register: how we are currently perceived, what they think of our ambition to facilitating oversight of risk and controls across the Group through use our scale for good and their future expectations of Tesco.
Further risk committees in Asia, Europe and a number of our businesses information is available in our Tesco and Society Report 2013, which and joint ventures: and is available on our website at www.
reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk management Corporate governance discussions and consultations systems and internal control with the Executive Committee, the We take an active part in the debate on corporate governance and Audit Committee and ultimately to the Board.
remuneration issues and during the year we responded to a number of consultations, including those carried out by the Department of External Audit Business, Innovation and Skills in relation to Revised Remuneration PwC, the Companys external auditors, contributes a further Reporting Regulations and Enhanced Shareholder Voting Rights independent perspective on certain aspects of our internal financial and the Financial Reporting Council consultation on revisions to the control systems arising from its work, and reports to both the Board UK Corporate Governance Code and Guidance on Audit Committees.
The engagement and independence of the external auditors is considered annually by the Audit Committee before Our Annual General Meeting it recommends its selection to the Board.
The AGM is seen as a good opportunity for the Board to communicate the Companys progress directly to shareholders.
Our 2013 AGM will be The Company has a Non-audit Services Policy for work carried out by held in London at 11am on 28 June 2013.
This is split into three categories as explained below: The whole Board is expected to attend the AGM and be available pre-approved for the external auditors is predominantly the audit to answer questions from shareholders present.
To encourage of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts and is audit-related shareholder participation, we offer electronic proxy voting and voting in nature: through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
At our AGM work for which Committee approval is specifically required all resolutions are proposed and voted upon individually by shareholders transaction work and corporate tax services, and certain advisory or their proxies.
All votes taken during the AGM are by way of electronic services: and poll.
This follows best practice guidelines and allows the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
work from which the external auditors are prohibited.
The Chairman announces the provisional voting results at the meeting, The Audit Committee concluded that it was in the best interests and the final results are announced the same day through a Regulatory of the Company for the external auditors to provide a number of Information Service and the Tesco PLC website.
In 2012 shareholders non-audit services during the year due to their experience, expertise, supported all of the resolutions put to them by the Board with votes and knowledge of the Groups operation.
Auditor objectivity and of over 90% in favour on all resolutions.
Full details of the votes are independence was achieved by ensuring that personnel involved in the available on our website www.
non-audit work were not involved in the audit, and by ensuring that management took responsibility for all decisions made.
PwC follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to ensure its independence is not compromised.
PwCs independence is also considered by the Audit Committee regularly.
The fees paid to the auditors in the year are disclosed in Note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Engagement Relations with shareholders We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with shareholders to ensure that we understand what is important to them and enable clear communication of our position.
The Chairman, CEO and CFO hold regular meetings with shareholders and update the Board on the outcomes of those meetings.
Investor Relations keep the Board informed of broker and analyst views and reports and present formally to the Board twice each year.
In addition we carry out a survey each year of a cross section of shareholders in order to assess shareholder perceptions of the Company.
The results of this survey are reviewed by the Board.
We support greater engagement with institutional shareholders as envisaged by the Stewardship Code.
We are also keen to develop our engagement with private shareholders through various channels of communication, including the AGM: the Companys website: and social media.
