52 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Chairmans letter Breathing life into good governance Dear Shareholder In my second year as Chairman, we have continued to make solid progress as we strengthen our governance arrangements.
In last years report, we set out a As an integral part of our number of agreed actions following our 2012 Board Transformation, Harriet Green evaluation.
I am pleased to report significant progress and her strengthened against those commitments as outlined here and morefully disclosed on page 58 below.
management team have ledamajor improvement As an integral part of our Transformation, HarrietGreen and her strengthened management team have led ingovernance and culture a major improvement in governance and culture across the organisation.
In particular, they have set the tonefrom the top and, with the support of the Board and the Audit Committee, have taken actions to strengthen risk management and internal control.
The Groups new Values and Code of Conduct have been thoroughly embedded throughout the organisation and it is particularly encouraging to seeclear evidence of a cultural shift taking place.
Chairman The Board places great emphasis on this area and Frank Meysman receives regular reports as we monitor progress.
As part of the improvements to our risk and audit capabilities, the Board undertook an exercise to determine its risk appetite in relation to both transformational activities and the business as usualenvironment.
The Boards risk appetite, together with the thorough top down and bottom up risk analyses reviewed by the Audit Committee, has resulted in a Combined Assurance Plan that now provides a co-ordinated approach to the Groups risk management and audit activities.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 1 Last year, I made a commitment to further strengthen Throughout the year, Roger Burnell and I engaged with our Board.
Attracting high calibre individuals with the our major shareholders and governance bodies on a skills and experience we require of our Board members number of occasions, mainly in respect of our executive was made possible by the significant progress made remuneration policy and performance metrics, as in our Transformation by our executive management we implement our pay for performance culture team and, more recently, by the development of a clear and align remuneration with our Transformation strategy and the execution of our 1.6 billion capital objectives and profitable growth strategy.
A key strength of our Board lies in grateful for the feedback given, which has been its diversity, across a range of measures, including supportive and constructive, and we will continue to 2 skills, experience gender and nationality and I am engage on key issues in the future.
Our remuneration pleased that our diversity has been further reinforced policy and full details of performance metrics and by the appointments in the past year of Emre Berkin, remuneration payments are fully disclosed in our CarlSymon and Warren Tucker.
Carl will become the Remuneration Report, which is prepared for the first Senior Independent Director and Warren will become time in accordance with the new regulations recently the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee introduced by the UK Government.
following the Companys AGM in February 2014, We will continue to live and breathe sound principles of whenRoger Burnell will retire from the Board.
good governance in everything we do and build upon We have a well-developed induction programme in the high standards that we have implemented to date.
place to ensure that our new Directors develop an understanding of our businesses.
In view of the fast pace of the Transformation, we have also developed Frank Meysman anongoing training programme for the Board with Chairman regular presentations given by senior managers from 27 November 2013 across the organisation.
This not only increases the 3 exposure of senior talent to the Board, but also gives the Board presence across the Group.
We will continue to live and breathe sound principles of good governance in everything we do and build upon the high standards that we have implemented to date.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 54 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Responsibilities of the Board GovernanceCode The Board is specically responsible for: This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the guiding the Groups strategic aims, leading to its approval of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the extent to which Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year to 30 September 2013.
Throughout the year, the Company fully approval of significant investments and capital expenditure: complied with the provisions of the Code, except for Provision B.
3.3, in approval of annual and half-year results and interim relation to Executive Directors taking on more than one non-executive management statements, accounting policies and, subject to directorship in a FTSE 100 company and, for part of the year, Provision shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration of the D. 1.5, in relation to Directors notice or contract periods being set at external auditors: one year or less.
By the end of July 2013, the Company complied with Provision D. 1.5 of the Code as the notice period for Harriet Green approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment of had reduced to 12 months further reducing by one month for every interim and the recommendation of final dividends: month served until our policy position of six months is achieved at the end of January 2014.
Explanations in respect of these two Provisions changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of are given in the relevant sections within the Remuneration Report any securities: onpage 82. establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system of internal control, governance and approval authorities: The Groups business model and strategy monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on reviewing standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, pages17 to 24 of this Report.
safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
The Board of Directors The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group and must ensure that there is a framework of effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
During the year there has been a significant focus by the Board and management in the areas of business and financial controls, along with risk identication and management.
The Group CEO, CFO and strengthened management team have set the tone from the top and created a strong culture of governance, controls and risk management across the Group.
A highly experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit professionals under the leadership of Lee Bradley, Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, has been recruited to drive a significant improvement agenda and to support management in this important area.
More information is given below and in the Risk management section on pages 30 and 31.
In September 2012, the Thomas Cook Leadership Council see page The Thomas Cook Leadership 26, led by the Group CEO, redened the Groups Values, Leadership Behaviours and Ways of Working in a major initiative to build a more Council, led by the Group CEO, effective organisation.
This initiative, together with the focus on redened the Groups Values, risk and controls and our trust commitments to our people and our stakeholders were brought together under a new Code of Conduct, Leadership Behaviours and drafted by a team of employees at all levels drawn from each of our businesses across the Group.
During the year, the Code of Conduct Ways of Working in a major was launched and embedded, with every employee across the Group initiative to build a more participating in a thorough training programme to ensure it guides the way our people work as we create a more sustainable future.
The Board receives regular reports and monitors progress in this important area.
The Boards governance structure and the roles and activities of its Committees are described on pages 56 to 65.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Board meetings and attendance Board activity during the year The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings At each Board meeting, the Group CEO presents a comprehensive throughout the year and supplementary meetings are held as and update on the Transformation, the strategy and business issues when necessary.
The table below shows the number of scheduled across the Group and the Group CFO presents a detailed analysis Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the 1 of the financial performance, both at Group and segment level.
number convened during the time served by each Director on the Senior executives below Board level attend relevant parts of Board or relevant Committee during the year.
Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group Peter Marks missed one Board meeting and one Nominations of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the Committee meeting both on the same date.
Dawn Airey missed Groups succession plans.
In response to the output from the one Board meeting, one Remuneration Committee meeting and 2012 Board evaluation, the Board held some of its meetings in the one Nominations Committee meeting all on the samedate.
segment locations and conducted in depth reviews of operations These missed meetings were due to unavoidable business and strategy as well as gaining more presence and visibility commitments and both Peter and Dawn gave input on the agenda amongst management and staff.
During the year, the Board visited items to the Chairman prior to the meetings.
The Chairman and the Northern Europe, Continental Europe and Airlines Germany eachNon-Executive Director have provided assurance to the Board Segments and has plans for the current year to visit the UK Business that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can Segment and one of the Groups primary destinations.
dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its As well as the scheduled meetings, the Directors attended additional responsibilities and, in particular, it reviewed: Board and Committee meetings please see the notes below, mainly in respect of the review and approval of the profitable Growth Strategy Strategy Shareholder relations that was presented to the market on 13 March 2013, the Capital the Group Transformation: investor feedback following 2 Renancing Plan launched on 16 May 2013 and the appointment the UK Business Transformation plan: the presentation of the of Non-Executive Directors.
Despite these meetings being held at the development of strategy, leading profitable Growth Strategy to the profitable Growth Strategy and the release of full and half relatively short notice, attendance levels for each of the Directors that was presented to the market on year results was high.
13 March 2013: the Groups brand strategy Financial the Groups Capital Current Directors in office as at 30 September 2013 Health, Renancing Plan: Values and standards Safety & the Groups annual the development Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental budget of the Groups Code Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee of Conduct and Frank Meysman 8 8 4 4 regular progress 1 Harriet Green 8 8 3 3 4 4 reports on the Diversity and talent training programme talent management Michael Healy 8 8 to embed it across and development Dawn Airey 7 8 3 4 4 4 4 5 4 4 theGroup across the Group 1 Emre Berkin 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Roger Burnell 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 4 4 Business performance Governance Peter Marks 7 8 3 4 4 4 Transformation progress the Groups treasury policy: Martine Verluyten 8 8 4 4 4 4 5 5 the operational performance of the Groups tax policy: each of the Groups segments.
Risk appetite: Notes 3 Performance and strategy are the Groups pension and As well as the meetings detailed above, the following additional meetings were held continually monitored and insurance arrangements: during the year, to discuss the issues highlighted on the previous page: Board: 8: reviewed by the Board and Board evaluation Nominations Committee: 3: Audit Committee: 0: Remuneration Committee: 2. periodic updates are presented 1 Harriet Green joined the Nominations Committee and Emre Berkin joined the bythe segment Managing Board and the Nominations, Remuneration and Health, Safety & Environmental Directors and their senior committees on 1 November 2012. management teams Former Directors who served during the year Health, Safety & Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Richard Pennycook 1 1 1 1 Notes: 1 Richard Pennycook was appointed on 1 April 2013 and resigned on 5 June 2013 to focus on his executive career.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 56 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Gender diversity Nationality mix of Board induction and training board members An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the 4 Groups business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
2 3 Such inductions typically include meetings with senior management, visits to the Companys business segments where they receive a 1 2 thorough brieng on the business and meet with the management 1 team, and the receipt of presentations on other key business areas and relevant documentation.
Individual induction requirements are monitored by the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company 1.
British 6 Secretary, to ensure that new and recently appointed Directors gain 2.
Belgian 2 sufficient knowledge about the Group to enable them to contribute 3.
Turkish 1 to the Boards deliberations as swiftly as possible.
Dual Nationality British US 1 new Directors have joined the Board in the past two years, there has been a high level of induction activity.
New Directors also go on a destination visit during which time they meet with in-destination Board composition staff and are taken through every aspect of the customer experience.
The induction content and process has evolved signicantly as we As at 27 November 2013, the Board comprised the Chairman, two build on the experience of inducting each new Director.
We are now Executive Directors, six Independent Non-Executive Directors and using the benefit of that experience for the benefit of our longerone Non-Executive Director.
Biographical details of all Directors can serving Directors, by giving them the opportunity to accompany and befound on pages 50 and 51 and on the Companys corporate participate in any aspect that they feel would further enhance their website at www.
knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Chairman The Board has a programme for holding some of its meetings at the business segments, where, in addition to its normal business, the Frank Meysman was the Chairman throughout the year.
Board will focus on the strategy and operations of that segment and meet with management and staff.
In October 2012, the Board held its The roles of the Chairman and Group CEO are separate and meeting at the main offices of the Northern Europe segment and in distinct.
There is a Board-approved Division of Responsibilities, March 2013, the Board held its meeting in Germany where it received which clearly sets out in writing their respective responsibilities.
presentations on, and met management and staff of, the Groups This document can be found on the Companys corporate website Continental Europe and Airlines Germany businesses.
meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors receive updates and presentations on developments and changes The Senior Independent Director Roger Burnell was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year and, as such, is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
Carl Symon, who was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2013, will become the Senior Independent Director following the AGM in February 2014, The induction content and process when Roger Burnell will retire from the Board.
has evolved signicantly as we build Changes to the Board on the experience of inducting each The following individuals were appointed to the Board as Independent new Director.
We are now using the Non-Executive Directors on the dates set alongside their names: Emre Berkin 1 November 2012. benefit of that experience for the Carl Symon and Warren Tucker 3 October 2013. benefit of our longer-serving Directors, Richard Pennycook was also appointed to the Board as an by giving them the opportunity to Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2013, but resigned on5 June 2013 to focus on his executive career.
accompany and participate in any aspect that they feel would further The search, selection and appointment process for Non-Executive Directors is fully described in the section on the Nominations enhance their knowledge and Committee on pages 62 and 63. understanding of the Group.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57 to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory environments.
Re-appointment of Directors In addition to the in-depth presentations on the Companys In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of businesses, the Board was also provided during the year with: Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders.
a comprehensive update on our web-based distribution At the AGM held in February 2013, all the Directors were submitted for transformation: and election re-election and the Board has agreed that the Directors will the developments to the end-to-end customer service 1 continue to be subject to annual election in the future.
Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual election by shareholders and, subject to rigorous review by The provision of additional training presentations has been further the Nominations Committee and continued annual re-election developed.
In response to the 2013 Board evaluation, an ongoing byshareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
training programme for the Board with regular presentations At the AGM to be held on 20 February 2014, Roger Burnell will not given bysenior managers from across the organisation has been stand for re-election and, accordingly, he will retire from the Board established for the balance of 2013 and throughout 2014.
In addition atthe conclusion of that meeting.
to the benefit of the training given, this programme also increases theexposure of senior talent to the Board and gives the Board Operation of the Board presence across the Group.
Throughout the year, a fully encrypted electronic portal system Director independence was operated, which enabled Board and Committee papers to be delivered securely to the Directors.
This enabled a faster and more At its September 2013 Board meeting, as part of its annual review secure distribution of information, accessed using electronic tablets, of corporate governance against the Code, the Board considered and reduced resource usage.
Directors were provided between the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the meetings with relevant information on matters affecting the business.
criteria specified in the Code and determined that Dawn Airey, Such updates were carried out by a variety of methods, including EmreBerkin, Roger Burnell and Martine Verluyten were independent.
conference calls amongst the full Board or between the Chairman 2 When approving their appointments, the Board also determined and or the Group CEO and the Non-Executive Directors, and by way thateach of the Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board of the Group Company Secretary circulating papers and updates on duringthe year was independent.
The Board recognises that Peter Marks, who held the position of The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is GroupChief Executive of The Co-operative Group which is a partner responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board inthe Groups UK retail joint venture until his retirement in May 2013, on corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is is not independent.
a smooth ow of information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Directors conicts of interest Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel and, through From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codified the Directors duty them, have access to independent professional advice in respect to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that of their duties, at the Companys expense.
The Group Company conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests of the Company.
Secretary acts as secretary to the Board, the Finance & Administration A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter Committee, the Disclosure Committee, the Audit Committee, hasbeen authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Health, Safety& Environmental Committee.
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing 3 conicts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise conicts.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a qualifying As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations third party indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director Committee should review the authorised conicts every six months, and the Group Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains or more frequently if a new potential conict arises for an existing Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Nominations Committee reviews the interests of candidates prior to making recommendations for the appointment ofnew Directors.
The Nominations Committee and Board applied the above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September The provision of additional training 2013 and confirm that these have operated effectively.
When the Board authorised the conict relating to Peter Marks in relation to presentations has been further the Companys UK retail joint venture with The Co-operative Group, developed.
In response to the 2013 itdid so on the condition that Peter would not receive Board papers in respect of, or be involved in, decisions about the Companys UK retail Board evaluation, an ongoing training joint venture.
programme for the Board with regular presentations has been established.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 58 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Our Board evaluation process 1 2 3 4 5 The Chairman and the Group Directors complete their A report of the findings from The report of the findings The action plan is Company Secretary discuss questionnaire and meet the questionnaires and the and the recommendations continually monitored by and agree the scope of the individually with the one-to-one discussions is is discussed by the Board, the Chairman and Group evaluation and develop a Chairman to discuss.
prepared by the Chairman and which agrees an action plan Company Secretary with comprehensive questionnaire.
the Group Company Secretary for the year ahead.
regular update reports and includes a number tothe Board.
of recommendations for discussion by the Board.
of strategy and increased opportunities to develop relationships Board evaluation amongst Board members.
The Board has agreed an action plan in The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough Board and Committee respect of each of these outputs and progress is being monitored by evaluation process, leading to action to improve its effectiveness, the Chairman, with the support of the Group Company Secretary, future composition and focus.
andreported regularly to the Board.
Progress will be disclosed in the 2014Governance Report.
A thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted during the year.
This was facilitated by the Group Company The Board agreed that real progress had been made in respect of Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman.
The process involved Board and Committee effectiveness during a challenging year and each of the Directors completing a high level questionnaire, which that all the actions arising from the 2012 Board evaluation had was structured to provide an introduction for a more in-depth and been dealt with in full to a high standard, but welcomed the actions comprehensive discussion between the Chairman and each of the from the 2013 evaluation in a move to higher standards.
Such meetings allowed each Director to express below show the outputs, agreed actions and achievements against their perspectives of the Boards effectiveness and performance, as the 2012 and 2013 Board evaluations.
The Board has agreed that well as to highlight areas in which they wished to see improvement.
theeffectiveness evaluation will be externally facilitated in 2014.
The output from the above was compiled by the Group Company Secretary and the key themes and issues, together with a range Separately, the Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of of recommendations, were presented in the first instance to the the Senior Independent Director and with input from the Executive Chairman and then to the Board for consideration and debate.
Directors, conducted an evaluation of the Chairman.
The outputs from that evaluation were debated by the Board in the absence The evaluation covered a range of areas including the breadth of of the Chairman and feedback was given to him by the Senior skills and experience on the Board.
The output from the evaluation Independent Director.
reinforced the requirements previously specified in the candidate prole in respect of the search for additional Board members.
The Companys performance management system applies In addition, the outputs included the need to maintain an ongoing to management at all levels across the Group.
The individual comprehensive Board training programme to keep pace with performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately the transformational activities, a request for increased market bytheChairman and the Remuneration Committee.
information and intelligence, the continued review and development Outputs from 2012 evaluation Agreed action in 2012 and delivered in 2012 13 A range of skills and experience, including Included in the candidate prole for the search for additional Non-Executive Directors.
Focus for travel, international, technology and UK plc, international search and selection rm.
Three additional high-calibre Non-Executive Directors appointed required of new Non-Executive Directors.
Board needs to have greater visibility Board agreed a programme for holding some of its meetings at the business segments, where it will andconnection with the businesses focus on the strategy and operations of that segment and will meet with management and staff.
to build a mutual understanding of roles Programme carried out in 2012 13 and will continue throughout 2013 14. andchallenges.
Board induction programme ensures that new appointees visit each of the businesses shortly afterjoining.
Existing Directors given the opportunity to undergo induction with new Directors.
Programme carried out in 2012 13 and will continue throughout 2013 14.
Need for improved financial information New Group CFO and strengthened Finance Team have signicantly improved financial reporting tothe Group and the Board.
Board needs to devote more time to the Time allocated for strategy at each Board meeting.
The Group CEO has driven the people agenda, development of strategy and succession focusing on assessment, development, succession, performance management, engagement and andtalent management.
New Chief People Officer appointed in 2013.
Succession and talent management presented to the Board in 2013.
Board needs improved understanding of A highly experienced new Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit was appointed on 29 October 2012 to riskidentication and management.
drive an increased focus on risk and controls across the Group and improved reporting to the Board andthe Audit Committee.
He reports directly to the Group CFO and through to the Audit Committee.
significant improvement in risk identication and management delivered in 2012 13.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Outputs from 2013 evaluation Action agreed in 2013 Strengthen the Board with the appointment Two Non-Executive Directors appointed subsequent to the 2013 Board evaluation, one of whom will be of additional Non-Executive Directors to meet appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other who will be appointed as the Senior succession requirements.
Independent Director following the AGM in February 2014, when Roger Burnell will retire from the Board.
Continued recruitment of high calibre Ongoing programme in place with regular reporting to the Board.
Senior management exposure to the 1 management and ongoing talent Board as described on pages 55 to 57. management and development being regularly reported to the Board.
Requirement for an ongoing comprehensive Ongoing programme developed and immediately implemented.
Board training programme to keep pace withthe transformational activities.
Request for increased market information Increased information to be provided over time.
Continued review and development of strategy.
Built into the Boards future agenda.
Opportunity to develop relationships Directors to group together for initial induction and ongoing training, where possible.
Informal occasions amongst Board members.
when the Board can be together without management present are being arranged.
The Board and its primary committees The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has a formal structure of Board delegated authority, whereby specified aspects of management and control of the Group Chairman, Group CEO, 2 have been delegated to the Group CEO, the Group CFO, business segments and the Boards Group CFO and 7 NonCommittees.
The Board has agreed the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Executive Directors Nominations, Risks and Disclosures, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees andthe Division of Responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group CEO.
Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Health, Safety & Audit Committee Chairman, Group CEO and 4 Independent Non-Executive Environmental Committee 3 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors Group CEO and 4 Non-Executive Directors Directors Directors Committee report Committee report Committee report Committee report on page 62 on page 65 on page 64 on page 60 The schedule of matters reserved, the terms of reference of each The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and of the Boards Committees and the Division of Responsibilities Health Safety & Environmental Committees are circulated to all the between the Chairman and the Group CEO, are available on request Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
and on the Companys website at www.
Major decisions taken under the Groups Delegation of Authority 3 The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of arereported to the next Board meeting.
These are also available on the Companys website.
Group Executive Committee Thomas Cook Leadership Council Throughout the year, the Group CEO regularly held meetings amongst The Group CEO has also established the Thomas Cook Leadership her Direct Reports to discuss a range of issues in relation to the strategic Council TCLC, comprising the top 130 leaders across the Group.
and operational development and performance of the businesses.
The TCLC meets four times a year to review performance and help As disclosed in the People section on pages 25 to 28 above external develop the Groups strategy.
recruitment and the development from within the organisation of world-class talented leaders has been a priority during the year.
Building on the success in this area, the CEO formed the Group Executive Committee on 1 November 2013.
The CEOs Direct Reports team and the Group Executive Committee that succeeded it comprise the most senior business leaders and Group function heads and, like the Thomas Cook Leadership Council, was both culturally and gender diverse reecting the wide range of diversity amongst employees across the Group.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 60 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Role of the Committee Audit Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and external auditors.
The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which reports its findings to the Board, is authorised to: been to support and oversee the monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim management statements, including a review of the significant significant improvement led by financial reporting judgements contained in them: executive management to the review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: Groups risk management and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal internal control arrangements.
audit function: establish and oversee the Companys relationship with its external auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the Committee relies on information and support from management Chairman across the business.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are Martine Verluyten available at www.
com or from the Group Company Meetings Secretary at the registered office.
Four Principal activities during the year Other members The main focus of the Audit Committee during the year has been to Dawn Airey support and oversee the significant improvement led by executive management to the Groups risk management and internal control Roger Burnell arrangements.
In that regard, the Committee welcomed the appointment of the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, who in Directors biographies on page 50 turn has recruited a highly experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit professionals to support management in this important Meetings also regularly attended by: area.
The Finance Function has also been strengthened to improve financial control.
The signicantly increased activity in respect of risk The Chairman and the other Non-Executive management, controls and internal audit for both transformational Directors, Harriet Green Group CEO, Michael Healy and business as usual activities has been summarised in GroupCFO, Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel, comprehensive reports that have been presented to and reviewed by Lee Bradley Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, the Committee at each of its meetings during the year.
This activity Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary, together with reports from the external auditors has supported GavinManson Group Head of Financial Reporting the Audit Committee in providing its advice to the Board in respect and  LLP PwC of the effectiveness of internal control see section headed Risk management and internal control on page 66 below.
At the end of two of its meetings during the year, the Committee and also those Composition of the Committee Non-Executive Directors who are not on the Committee met with During the year, Richard Pennycook was appointed theDirector of Enterprise Risk and Audit and the external auditors amember on 1 April 2013, until his resignation inthe absence of management.
Martine Verluyten is considered by the Board to have recent andrelevant financial experience, as required by the Code.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Committee activities significant issue considered by theCommittee How the issue was addressed by theCommittee In addition to focus on risk management, controls and internal audit described opposite, the Committee has discharged its responsibilities Going Concern: The appropriateness of The Committee considered papers preparing the Group financial statements prepared by management and, taking during the year and has reviewed: for the half year and full year on a going into account the external auditors review 1 concern basis.
of these papers and their assumptions, Financial Governance concluded that managements the full and half-year the prevention, detection recommendation to prepare accounts on results including and reporting of fraud agoing concern basis was appropriate.
accounting issues and andthe Groups anti-fraud The Groups recapitalisation and The Committee reviewed a paper prepared judgements and the and ethics policies: treatment of costs: Theappropriate by management on the proposed interim management proposals for engaging the accounting treatment of the costs accounting treatment of costs associated statements issued during external auditors to carry and fees of 73 million in relation to with the Groups recapitalisation.
Having the year: out non-audit related work the completion of the Groups Capital reviewed the paper, the Committee was information in support of see below : Renancing Plan in June 2013. comfortable with the treatment proposed the statements in relation the Committees work plan and subsequently adopted.
to going concern and for the year ahead and a disclosure of information review of historic activity Impairment and deferred tax: In view The Committee considered a paper to the auditors: against the Committees of the Groups losses in recent years, presenting managements intended the annual work plan terms of reference: the Committee considered whether approach and having taken input foreach of the internal the effectiveness of the there was a need to impair certain from the auditors, agreed with audit team and the external audit process and asset values, including goodwill and the managements proposals.
external auditors a proposal in respect of the reasonableness of the Groups recognition re-election of the external of deferred tax assets.
auditors see external Separately disclosed items: The The Committee considered managements auditors section below Group has an established policy of presentation of separately disclosed items separately disclosing items that are and in particular items relating to the Within its terms of reference, the Committee is authorised to either exceptional or detract from the Groups Transformation and certain non- 2 readers understanding of the underlying cash finance allocations.
Having considered monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim performance of the Group.
the matter, the Committee agreed to adopt management statements, including a review of the significant managements proposed presentation.
financial reporting judgements contained in them.
At its meeting Aircraft lease accounting and The Committee considered a paper in November 2013, the Committee reviewed a comprehensive provisioning: The Group holds a prepared by management dealing paper prepared by the Group Head of Financial Reporting, which set numberof its aircraft eet on lease from withtheimpacts of lease accounting third parties.
The designation of aircraft andrelated aircraft maintenance out the Groups accounting policies and basis of preparation: gave leases as operating leases or finance provisionsand accepted managements consideration to a number of key disclosure considerations, including leases impacts on several aspects of proposed treatment.
going concern, separately disclosed items and like-for-like analysis: reported results.
matters arising in the preparation of the Group accounts: and the Control environment during The Committee considered the broader impact of new accounting developments.
The Audit Committee also Transformation: The Group is risks associated with this Transformation reviewed a paper prepared by the external auditors, which included currently engaged in a fundamental as well as focusing on the operation of the Transformation encompassing most Groups control environment throughout the significant reporting and accounting matters.
Both papers were aspects of its activities.
The Committee reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee.
The Committee also considered a report by management pays particular attention to matters that it considers to be important on the operation of financial and nonby virtue of their impact on the Group results and remuneration financial controls throughout the year.
of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement Disposal of Thomas Cook North The Committee considered a proposal America: In the year the Group disposed by management to account for its North or estimation in their application in preparation of the Groups of its businesses in North America.
America businesses under IFRS5 as a Financial Statements.
The significant issues considered bythe 3 discontinued operation and agreed AuditCommittee were as follows: withthe proposed treatment.
confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter External auditors addressed to the Directors.
A policy is in place which requires all material non-audit work proposed to be carried out by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by At its meeting in November 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the the Committee in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit effectiveness of the external audit process.
This included reviewing services does not impair the external auditors independence or comprehensive papers from both management and the external objectivity.
The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit auditors, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of Committees terms of reference, is published on the Companys the audit.
The Audit Committee then held a meeting with the external website at www.
An analysis of the fees auditors in the absence of management to discuss further.
Upon the earned by the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services is recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
PwC were appointed re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 20 February as the sole auditors to the Group in 2008 and since that date have 2014.
In reaching its decision to propose PwC for re-election, the Audit complied with the partner rotation requirement set out in the Ethical Committee took into account the effectiveness of the external audit Standards for auditors: Paul Cragg, a Partner of PwC, was newly process, the length of tenure of PwC as auditors and the objectivity appointed Senior Statutory Auditor following the re-appointment of and independence of the external auditor.
PwC by shareholders at the AGM held on 7 February 2013.
PwC have Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 62 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Role of the Committee Nominations Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or its Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is The Board is strengthened to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee by the appointment of ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee is also three independent responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently Non-Executive Directors.
if required, the Directors potential conicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the registered office.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: Chairman Committee activities Frank Meysman Meetings Four Other members Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Roger Burnell, Harriet Green and Martine Verluyten Directors biographies Governance on page 50 considered the re-appointment of the Directors, before making a recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election at the 2013 AGM: Meetings also regularly attended by: conducted a thorough process and made recommendations to the Board to appoint additional Non-Executive Directors in order to strengthen the Board: The other Non-Executive Directors, Derek Woodward considered Directors potential conicts of interest see page 57.
Group Company Secretary and CraigStoehr Group General Counsel Composition of the Committee A majority of the members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Emre Berkin and Harriet Green joined the Committee on 1 November 2012.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Board appointments policy One of the key areas of focus in Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective the 2012 Board effectiveness criteria and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating review re-affirmed in the 2013 the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, 1 Board effectiveness review was makes recommendations to the Board.
The Board appointments policy reinforces the Boards principle that appointments are made to evaluate the breadth of skills on merit, in line with its current and future requirements, and reect the UK listing and international activity of the Group.
The policy and experience on the Board.
also recognises the benets of diversity, including gender diversity.
The output from that evaluation Appointments during the course of the year have been in line with that policy and have reinforced the diverse composition of the Board.
helped shape the candidate prole A table illustrating the diversity of the Board is shown on page 56. for the search for additional The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Women on Boards.
A copy of the Groups Board appointments policy can be Non-Executive Directors.
found on our website at www.
Non-Executive appointments One of the key areas of focus in the 2012 Board effectiveness review re-affirmed in the 2013 Board effectiveness review was to evaluate the breadth of skills and experience on the Board.
The output from that evaluation see page 58 helped shape the candidate prole for the search for additional Non-Executive Directors.
Egon Zehnder, 2 an international search and selection rm, was appointed to assist the Chairman to identify a range of suitable candidates for review by the Nominations Committee.
As a result of the ongoing process, Emre Berkin was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2012, Richard Pennycook was appointed on 1 April 2013 although he subsequently resigned on 5 June 2013 to focus on his executive career and Carl Symon and Warren Tucker were appointed on 3 October 2013.
The Chairman and the Committee will continue their work in the current year to continue to monitor and develop the Boards succession plans.
The Committee will also support the Board with a review of Committee memberships, once the newly appointed Directors have completed their induction programmes.
Egon Zehnder does not carry out any other work for the Group.
3 Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 64 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Role of the Committee Health, Safety & Environmental Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of The Health, Safety & compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to health, safety and the environment across the Group.
Environmental Committee has The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at overseen a wide range of www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary improvements, including the steps at the registered office.
taken to embed our Code of Principal activities during the year Conduct across the Group.
At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular reviewed, monitored and agreed: Committee activities External affairs Stakeholder relations Chairman the Group-wide child protection policy and the Groups Peter Marks implementation plan: Sustainability Reports progress in relation to the Groups Meetings programme of government affairs Four Other members Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin, Roger Values and standards Environmental the roll out of the transfers and Burnell and Harriet Green Groups Code of transport: Conduct a number of health and safety policies, Directors biographies including the Groups on page 50 environmental and sustainability policies Meetings also regularly attended by: Health and safety The other Non-Executive Directors, Lee Bradley the Groups health and safety and sustainability strategies Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, Steve Solomon also covering the Groups hotel quality assurance programme, Director, Group Aviation Safety, Compliance and including performance against targets: Security, Andy Cooper Director of Government and future health and safety performance targets: the proposed outsourcing of customer health and safety data capture, External Affairs, Derek Woodward Group Company riskassessment and data storage functions: Secretary, Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel overseas excursion safety policy compliance: andBeth Horlock Deputy Company Secretary employee safety regulations: the Groups airline safety: key health and safety risks facing the Group and the mitigating actionstaken: reviewed transfers and transport: Composition of the Committee the Group Aviation drug and alcohol policy: Dawn Airey, Roger Burnell and Harriet Green were a crisis management test members of the Committee throughout the year.
Peter Marks was Chairman of the Committee throughout the year.
Emre Berkin was appointed The Groups Sustainability Report is available on asamember of the Committee on 1 April 2013. www.
com sustainability and contains the Groups health & safety and environmental policies, an explanation of how Thomas Cook manages sustainability and progress against targets.
A summary of the approach and the Groups performance in relation to sustainability is contained on pages 47 to 49.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Principal activities during the year Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee made significant progress implementing best practice as it pursues its Pay for Performance policy.
In this connection, the Chairman and the Chairman of the Committee have conducted extensive consultations with 1 The Remuneration Committee major shareholders and governance bodies.
A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by the has aligned executive pay Remuneration Committee during the year, including an explanation of how it applies the Principles of the Code in respect of Executive arrangements with our Directors remuneration, is included within the Remuneration Report Transformation and profitable on pages 70 to 87. growth strategy.
Finance & Administration Committee To facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisions, the Board has established the Finance & Administration Committee comprising any two Directors, one of whom must be an Executive Director, which has delegated authority within clearly identied parameters in relation to day-to-day nancing and administrative matters.
Chairman Risks and Disclosures Committee Roger Burnell The Board has established a Risks and Disclosures Committee, Meetings 2 which is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and Five controls in respect of the management of inside information and the disclosure of such information to the market in accordance with the Other members Companys obligations under the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Dawn Airey, Emre Berkin and Transparency Rules.
The Committee meets regularly during the year Martine Verluyten to consider the Groups activities and risks, having received inputs from the Risk Matters Group, against its disclosure obligations and to review all results announcements, following certication from individual Directors biographies executives from across the businesses.
The Committee comprises on page 50 the Group CEO, who is the Chairman, the Group CFO, the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, the Group General Counsel and the Group Meetings also regularly attended by: Company Secretary.
Other attendees include senior managers from Frank Meysman Chairman, Harriet Green Group Group Finance and Investor Relations.
CEO, Peter Marks Non-Executive Director, Sandra Campopiano Chief People Officer, Judith Mackenzie Group Head of Performance and Reward, Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary and Craig Stoehr Group General Counsel 3 Harriet Green does not attend in respect of matters relating to her remuneration.
Composition of the Committee All members of the Committee are Independent NonExecutive Directors.
Emre Berkin was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 April 2013.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 66 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Frank Meysman and Roger Burnell, the Senior Independent Director Shareholder communication and engagement and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, had ongoing dialogue The Board promotes open communication with shareholders.
with shareholders in respect of Executive remuneration matters.
This is formalised within the framework of an investor relations Between June and September 2013, they conducted a wide-scale programme conducted by the Group CEO, the Group CFO and the engagement with a large number of the Companys major institutional Investor Relations team.
The programme included the presentation shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys shares of preliminary and half-year results, which can be accessed on the in issue and governance bodies to hear their views on proposed Thomas Cook Group website at www.
com along performance targets for both the 2012 and then forthcoming with financial reports, interim management statements, other market 2013 awards to the Executive Directors under the Performance announcements and trading updates.
The management team Share Plan and proposed amendments to the Companys executive conducts regular meetings with institutional investors and welcomes Remuneration Policy, presented in line with the new Directors' the dialogue that this enables with shareholders.
These meetings were both supportive and constructive and the Board and the Remuneration Committee During the year, in addition to their regular ongoing programme of were briefed on the feedback from the above discussions.
The views investor meetings, the Group CEO and Group CFO had an extensive expressed by shareholders were taken into account when nalising series of meetings with shareholders following the presentation of the executive remuneration arrangements.
The matters covered by the Companys new strategy to the market on 13 March 2013 and with consultation are reported in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 existing and prospective investors in respect of the Companys Capital to 87.
Renancing Plan that was completed in June 2013.
The Company makes every effort to ascertain investor perceptions of the Company In line with the authority given at its 2008 AGM, the Company uses and regular reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided its website and email as the primary means of communication with to the Board.
Additionally, the Board responds to ad-hoc requests its shareholders.
This arrangement provides significant benets for for information and all shareholders are entitled to attend the shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, Annual General Meeting.
In addition to its AGM in February 2013, the reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still opt Company also held a general meeting in June 2013, to gain approval to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys for the share placing and rights issue as part of its Capital Renancing corporate website contains information for shareholders, including Plan.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to lodge their votes share price information and news releases.
It can be found at by way of proxy and or to attend such meetings in person where www.
they have the opportunity to ask questions of the Board including the chairs of the Board Committees, vote by way of a poll and meet Risk management and internal control informally with the Directors to discuss any issues they may wish to raise.
During the year, there has been significant progress made in the area of risk management and internal control.
This has been led with a During the year, both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman distinct tone from the top by the Group CEO and her strengthened of the Remuneration Committee met with a number of major management team, with the support of the Board and the Audit institutional shareholders to discuss governance issues in general Committee, to drive a step-change improvement in the overall and, with those institutional investors who had voted against the governance framework and culture throughout the organisation.
Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM, to listen to their reasons why A highly experienced and dedicated team of risk and audit they had exercised their vote in that way.
As a result of the feedback professionals under the leadership of Lee Bradley, who was appointed received at those meetings, the Remuneration Committee agreed to as Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit in October 2012, has been change the approach to measuring achievement against the share recruited to drive a significant improvement agenda and to support price performance targets in respect of future awards under the management in this important area.
Furthermore, high calibre Performance Share Plan.
professionals have also been recruited into the Group and Segment Finance teams to improve cash management and forecasting and This is explained in more detail in the Remuneration Report financial controls.
The Groups new approach to risk management and internal control is more fully described in the Risk management section on pages 30 and 31.
The management team conducts regular meetings with institutional investors and welcomes the dialogue that this enables with shareholders.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an Risk identication and reporting effective system of internal control and risk management that is Under the sponsorship of the Group CEO and her strengthened appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups management team, a robust risk framework has been established activities and complies with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the though which risk is identied and managed with vigour.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Turnbull Guidance and has Management across the Group have responsibility for identifying approved the framework and the standards implemented.
During the and managing risk.
Risk registers are continually updated through 1 year, the Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the reports an ongoing programme of risk workshops with operational and of the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit, which included the results financial management.
Risk is formally assessed as a standing from wholesale top-down and bottom up risk reviews, involving item at all monthly Segment level board meetings, with key risks management across the Group.
The Board has also undertaken a being escalated and discussed by the RMG.
The chair of the Audit detailed exercise to consider its risk appetite.
These activities have Committee also has a standing invitation to attend the meetings resulted in a Combined Assurance Plan, which will enable a risk based ofthe RMG.
The RMG reports to the Audit Committee and the Risks approach to the ongoing internal audit and assurance programme.
This framework will be developed and standards improved as the The RMG reports and the risk register identify the principal risks to new approach to risk management and internal control is further the business and assess the adequacy of controls and procedures in embedded across the Group.
place to mitigate the likelihood and the impact of these risks.
There are also reports to the RMG by specic risk owners on the effectiveness of Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of actions taken to mitigate risks.
The regular risk reporting regime has failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, created an environment for the development and improvement of but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
risk management procedures across the Group.
The Audit Committee The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation reviews the reports of the RMG and makes recommendations to of the Group risk management policy to the Risk Matters Group improve risk management and internal control.
This process of risk identication, measurement and reporting provides a comprehensive RMG, which is chaired by the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit 2 ongoing assessment of the significant risks facing the Group and the and comprises senior executives from across the Group.
The Chair mitigating actions taken in respect of those risks.
This process ensures of the Audit Committee is invited to each of the RMG meetings and that the Group complies with relevant corporate governance best attends regularly.
practice in relation to risk management, including the guidance issued under the Turnbull Guidance.
The Groups internal audit function Risk appetite reports directly to the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit who, During the year, the Board undertook a detailed exercise to consider together with the Group Finance function, makes recommendations its risk appetite in a number of key areas for the business.
The results to the Audit Committee in relation to the maintenance of a sound of this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk control environment throughout the Group.
A schedule of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and mitigating actions being taken by management is set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Board is aligned on the relative risks and has agreed the appetite for risk taking for Transformation initiatives and operational delivery is entrepreneurial, this position aligns with the strategic aims of the Transformation programme and targets set for the business.
The Board has a low tolerance for Health and Safety, Reputation and Regulatory Compliance risks.
In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced view on risk taking.
3 It is the intent of the Board to use the results of this review to support its ongoing decision making and risk mitigations.
The Board will review annually or more frequently as required in the light of the changes to the economic environment, strategic progress and performance of the business.
During the year, the Board This exercise is in addition to the evaluation of key risks facing the undertook a detailed exercise business, which is undertaken, formally, on an annual basis and disclosed on pages 30 and 31 and the ongoing management and to consider its risk appetite in monitoring of risks which is described below.
a number of key areas for the business.
The Board will use the results to support its ongoing decision making.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report 68 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Corporate governance report continued Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct sets out how we expect our employees to During the year, a new set of Values and a Code of Conduct was conduct themselves in their everyday working life.
It covers areas drafted by a team of senior managers and employees drawn from such as: behaviour towards our customers and our people: health each of our businesses across the Group.
To ensure that this important and safety: reputation management: sustainable operation: supplier work is fully embedded, over 90% of our employees across the Group relationships: anti-bribery: conicts of interest: competition law: have received comprehensive face-to-face training in interactive risk management and controls: fraud, theft and false accounting: sessions led by line managers, with plans in place to ensure the IT security: share dealing and our prohibition of political donations.
remainder are trained in the near term.
All new employees also The Code also includes guidance to employees about their undergo the training as part of their induction.
Participation in the responsibility to report problems and issues that come to their training is monitored by both line management and HR functions attention and the alternative ways of raising such issues in escalating across the Group.
Follow up interviews were also conducted amongst order line management, HR, the ask-Harriet email facility, which sample groups of employees in each of the business segments promotes feedback from all employees, and the Trustline see below.
and relevant questions were included in the Group-wide employee engagement survey and in performance reviews as a means of The Code of Conduct was issued to all employees in paper copy and conrming that employees have participated in the training session is also available on the Groups intranet and website.
In addition, the and are aware of the Code and comfortable with its contents.
Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which Further training will be given in 2014 to ensure the Code remains may give rise to cause for concern.
Whistleblowing As mentioned above, the Code includes guidance to employees about their responsibility to report problems and issues that come to their attention and also the alternative ways of raising such Code of Conduct process issues.
This included a thorough re-launch of the independently run whistleblowing helpline re-named the Trustline.
Details of the Trustline are published in the Code of Conduct booklet and also on the Groups Drafted through engagement with stakeholders: Group-wide intranet site.
Also included in the Code of Conduct were details of the ask-Harriet email facility, which allows every employee across the Group to raise issues or make suggestions for improvement directly with the Group CEO.
significant issues brought to managements attention through the Trustline or ask-Harriet email facility are Thorough training programme for all employees reported to the Audit Committee.
Review of system of internal control During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
There is an ongoing process for the identication Inclusion in Group-wide survey and performance reviews and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes, toconrm awareness which has been in place, and signicantly improved, throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of the financial statements.
This includes the process by which management prepares consolidated accounts.
The work conducted by management and Ongoing monitoring described on pages 30 and 31 is complemented, supported and challenged by the controls assurance work carried out independently by the external auditors, PwC, and the Group Internal Audit function.
Regular reports on control issues are presented to the Audit Committee by the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit.
The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, Further training in 2014 can confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identied from that review.
The appointment of the Director of Enterprise Risk and Audit was approved by the Audit Committee at the beginning of the financial year in response to findings from the Audit Committees ongoing review.
The approach to risk management and control that is being implemented inthe current financial year is set out in the Risk management section onpages 30 and 31.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69 Going concern In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: After making appropriate enquiries and taking into account the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: matters set out in the Risk management section on pages 30 and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 31, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and prudent: and and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to the European Union.
1 adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Internal control and risk management in relation to the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors nancialreporting process also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, The Group has a thorough assurance process in place in respect of the taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides preparation, verication and approval of periodic financial reports.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys This process includes: performance, business model and strategy.
the involvement of qualied, professional employees with an appropriate level of experience both in Group Finance and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records throughout the business : that show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with formal sign-offs from appropriate business segment managing reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company directors and finance directors: and the Group, and for ensuring that the financial statements and comprehensive review and, where appropriate, challenge from key the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act internal Group functions: 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the a transparent process to ensure full disclosure of information to the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets external auditors.
Engagement of a professional and experienced of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps rm of external auditors: forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
oversight by the Groups Audit Committee, involving amongst 2 otherduties : The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the a detailed review of key financial reporting judgements which Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing have been discussed by management: the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ review and, where appropriate, challenge on matters including: from legislation in other jurisdictions.
F the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices during the year: Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, F significant adjustments resulting from an external audit: whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 50 and 51, F the going concern assumption: and confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: F the Companys statement on internal control systems, prior to the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in endorsement by the Board.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: The above process, and the review by the Audit Committee of a and comprehensive note that sets out the details of the preparation, the Strategic and Directors Report contained on pages 2 to 89 internal verication and approval process for the Annual Report and includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Accounts, provides comfort to the Board that the Annual Report business and the position of the Group, together with a description andAccounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
3 Disclosure of information to auditors Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Directors Report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Report and the Financial Statements unaware: and that he she has taken all steps that he she ought to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the have taken as a Director to make him her aware of any relevant audit Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires that information.
the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and Share capital and related disclosures the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Disclosures in relation to the share capital of the Company, including Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and the Companys major shareholders are given in the Other Disclosures fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of section onpages 88 to 89. the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
