64 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to Composition of the aUdit Committee report below on the Committees activities in 2013.
Chris Bunker was Chairman of the Committee until July when I assumed the chairmanship.
He remained a member roLe of the aUdit Committee of the Committee until 30 September when he retired The Committee is primarily responsible for: as a Director of the Group.
Christopher Rogers joined the The integrity of the financial statements of the Group Committee following his appointment as a non-executive and any formal announcements relating to the Groups director with effect from 1 September 2013.
Christopher is financial performance, and reviewing significant financial a chartered accountant and was previously Group Finance reporting judgments contained therein Director at both Whitbread PLC and Woolworth Group Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and its PLC.
John Coleman was a member of the Committee internal control and risk management systems throughout 2013. monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups All members of the Committee are considered to internal audit function and approving its work plans be independent and have considerable financial and Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for commercial experience gained through a variety of monitoring the conduct of the audit corporate and professional appointments.
In particular, the Reviewing the external auditors independence and Board considers that Chris Bunker had, and Christopher objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, Rogers and I have, the recent and relevant financial taking into consideration relevant UK professional and experience required by the UK Corporate Governance regulatory requirements Code see also the board profiles on pages 56 to 57.
Reviewing and implementing the Groups policy on the The Company Secretary was secretary to the Committee engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit throughout 2013. services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by an external audit meetinGs and attendanCe firm The Committee held four meetings during 2013 and Conducting any tender process for the provision of the attendance at the meetings is shown on page 60.
The external audit, and making recommendations to the Group Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders in Chief Executive, the Group Financial Controller, the Director relation to the appointment and remuneration of the of Business Risk and Assurance and the external auditor external auditors also attended most meetings.
At each meeting attended, Shortly after each meeting, I report to the Board on the the external auditor and the Director of Business Risk and work of the Committee, identifying any matters where it Assurance were given the opportunity to discuss with the considers that action or improvement is needed, and make Committee any matters which they wished to raise without recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
In addition, during the year, The Committees full terms of reference which are there were a number of meetings between the Chairman reviewed annually and were last updated in December of the Committee and the Director of Business Risk and 2013 are available on the Groups website Assurance and between the Chairman of the Committee and www.
co. uk, or on request to the Company the external auditors, without management being present.
work of the Committee The meetings were arranged to fit around the Groups half year and full year financial reporting requirements.
The following areas were covered during the year: TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 65 February May July November Financial reporting Consideration of annual report and accounts Consideration of interim results Review of the impact of accounting and governance developments Internal audit Terms of reference review Annual activity plan and resource allocation Activity review Appraisal of effectiveness Systems of internal controls review External audit Auditors report on their activities Auditors independence and quality control processes Review of effectiveness of the External Auditors Review of interim annual terms of engagement Review of year-end audit plan Review of audit and non-audit fees Risk management Review of risk management framework Consideration of fraud, bribery and whistleblowing report Systems of internal controls review Audit Committee governance Terms of reference review Review of the Committees effectiveness Key topics covered at the meetings and not commented on siGnifiCant issUes reLated elsewhere in this report, were: to the finanCiaL statements The security of the Groups information technology The Audit Committee received papers from the Groups systems management team and from the Groups Auditors that Restructuring the finance department to reflect the provided details of the significant financial reporting increasing decentralisation of operating and financial estimates and judgements made during the preparation and responsibility throughout the Group presentation of the Groups interim and annual accounts.
The impact of decentralisation on the Groups financial No matters of material significance were identified by the systems, financial analysis systems and the availability of external auditors during the year and there were no material management information audit-related matters that were discussed with investors.
In addition to attending the formal Audit Committee The key issues in respect of the annual accounts meetings, during the year the Committee members regularly considered by the Committee were the: met with operational and finance staff and received a Potential for an impairment to the carrying value of number of technical updates.
goodwill and other intangible assets.
A number of I am satisfied that the Committee received sufficient, judgements are made by management when determining reliable and timely information from management to enable their estimates of the future cash flows of businesses in it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
Those judgements included revenue growth CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT rates, on-going margins, overhead increases and the level externaL aUditor 66 of investment required to maintain the individual business operating capability.
Additionally the rate chosen by Appointment and performance management at which to discount future cash flows and Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firms is a leading the allocation of assets and operations to cash generating international audit partnership, and was first appointed as units can significantly impact any calculations.
auditor to group companies more than 30 years ago.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to In arriving at its conclusion that no impairment their appointment.
In accordance with current professional had occurred, the Committee reviewed the board standards, the partner responsible for the audit changes approved forecasts, challenged management on the every 5 years: the last change occurred in 2010. key assumptions and questioned the Auditors about In accordance with the recent change to the UK managements application of the accounting rules.
Corporate Governance Code, it is the Groups intention to Systems, processes and controls involved in determining put the audit out to tender at least every 10 years.
The the value of supplier rebate income recognised in the Committee decided it was not necessary to tender the audit accounts.
Supplier rebate agreements can be extremely in 2013, but intends to do so and the tender process will be complicated and are not always coterminus with the completed in time for the 2015 year-end at the latest.
As a result, judgements are During the year the Committee reviewed the following in made to forecast turnover for those deals where the rate respect of the external auditor: at which rebate is earned varies dependent upon the The policy on engagement of the external auditor for volume or value purchased.
non-audit work, as referred to below, and the policy on The Committee concluded, following presentations the employment of anyone previously employed by the from management and the Auditors, that rebate income external auditor had been properly reflected in the accounts.
The plans presented by the external auditor for the Application of pension accounting rules to the Groups conduct of the year-end audit and half-year review three defined benefit pension schemes.
The complex including the related risk analyses, terms of engagement, calculation of pension scheme funding position fees and letters of representation undertaken by the Scheme Actuary is dependent upon The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the key assumptions made by management in respect of external auditor, taking into account information and future rates of inflation, investment income, interest rates, written assurances provided by Deloitte LLP, on its quality scheme member mortality and contributions in respect of and independence controls, and its ethical standards and historical deficits.
In addition the FRRP issued guidance on reports of the FRC Audit Inspection Unit the application of the IFRIC 14 during the year.
The Committee specifically discussed the effectiveness After considering benchmarking information of the external audit process at its meetings of February provided by the Auditors, and updated legal advice and November 2013 and again at its meeting in February about the rights of the Group in respect of any surplus 2014.
In each case the Committee obtained input from in the Travis Perkins defined benefit pension scheme the Companys finance team.
In particular the Committee the Committee decided that managements pension considered the audit of the 2012 report and accounts, the scheme assumptions, calculations and disclosures were audit plan for 2013 and the audit of the 2013 report and accounts, the risk identification process and the future impact acceptable.
of the divisional reporting structure.
The Committee was Level of provisioning for liabilities, which included satisfied of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
insurance, warranties, property leases, bad debts, stock and tax.
In determining the values of provisions required Independence and objectivity at the year-end, management had to make judgements, One of the Committees responsibilities is to ensure often based upon previous experience, about the future recoverability of assets or the likelihood of successful compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services claims to be made against the Group.
provided by, and fees paid to, the external auditor.
There has In each case management presented to the been no change to this policy, which is summarised below Committee the basis of the provision and the key and is included on the Groups website at assumptions applied when quantifying it.
the Committee sought the views of the auditors before arriving at the conclusion that provisions were fairly stated General principle for non-audit work in the annual accounts.
The external auditors should only be chosen to carry out non-audit work where its nature makes it more effective for the work to be carried out by auditors who have existing knowledge of the Group.
The external auditors should not provide non-audit services where it might impair their independence or objectivity in carrying out the audit.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Areas of work and sundry tax advice.
In view of Deloittes detailed 67 understanding of the Groups operations and accounting Permitted work audit related policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, the Audit Committee decided that it was Activities required by law or legislation to be undertaken appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this work.
In addition, by the Auditors 837,000 2012: 347,000 of fees were paid to other Reviews of interim financial information accounting firms for non-audit work, including advice to the Remuneration Committee.
managed service reports to housing associations and The Committee understands that the total fees paid by local authorities the Group to Deloitte in 2013 amount to less than 0.01% of Deloittes UK fee income and considers that the Auditors Permitted work non-audit related independence and objectivity has not been impaired by the Tax compliance services non-audit fees paid in 2013.
Tax advisory services risk manaGement and internaL ControLs Public reporting on investment circulars and similar The Committee reviewed the Groups internal financial documents controls and its internal control and risk management Private reporting to sponsors and similar parties in systems in February 2014.
The Committee considered connection with investment circulars and similar these systems to have been effective during the year.
documents Additionally the Executive Committee risk sub group met ten times during 2013 to consider risk related matters.
Employee benefit plan audits There is an intention to review the risk management systems in 2014 to more closely align them with the Prohibited work Groups strategy and corporate plans.
Book-keeping and work related to the preparation of accounting records internaL aUdit The Committee continued to review the plans for work in Financial information system design or implementation 2013 throughout the first part of the year and increased Appraisal and valuation services the emphasis on finance matters.
At each Committee meeting the results of internal audits were considered and Internal audit services the Committee reviewed progress on meeting agreed Actuarial services recommendations.
Risk based plans for work in 2014 were Forensic work agreed by the Committee in November 2013.
The Committee, working with the Chief Financial Officer, Recruitment services reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit department Secondment of staff to a supervisory or management and, as a result, the team will be restructured and position strengthened in 2014 through recruitment and the use of external resources for some specialist area audits.
Provision of investment advice, broking or legal services The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Value of work Non-audit services require approval as follows: overview 5,000 to 25,000: Chief Financial Officer As a result of its work during the year, and taking into 25,000 to 50,000: Chief Financial Officer and account the result of the Board and Committee evaluation Committee Chairman process described on page 61, the Committee considers 50,000 : Chief Financial Officer and Committee that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference Chairman following a competitive tender and has ensured the independence, objectivity and Formal approval by the Committee is also required if the effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The aggregated level of forecast fees for non-audit services Committee has also concluded that the Groups internal exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
control and risk management systems were effective during the year.
Reporting I will be available at the Annual General meeting to The Chief Financial Officer reports twice annually to the answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Committee on fees for non-audit services payable to the auditors.
Ruth Anderson As shown in note 5a to the accounts, during the year Chairman, Audit Committee the Auditors were paid 442,000 2012: 431,000 for 25 February 2014 audit-related work, and 188,000 2012: 129,000 for non-audit work.
The principal items of non-audit fees related to reviewing the Groups interim announcement to shareholders CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
