59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 Uk Corporate GovernanCe Code The Boards key responsibilities are for overall group strategy, In the following pages, we explain how the Company has policy on corporate governance, approval of expansion applied the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate plans and major capital expenditure, consideration of Governance Code the Code during 2013.
Since significant financial and operational matters and the Groups inevitably, and despite our best efforts, the following pages exposure to key risks.
It also reviews the strategy of the can make fairly turgid reading and might appear somewhat individual businesses, their annual budgets and progress boilerplate, I would like to make the following points by way towards the achievement of those budgets and long-term of introduction: objectives.
Legislative, environmental, health and safety and The Board considers that the Company has complied employment issues are also considered.
with the provisions set out in the Code The Board has approved a written statement of the The Board invested considerable time and effort to division of key responsibilities between the Chairman, ensure Geoff Coopers retirement as Group Chief and the Chief Executive.
This is reviewed annually and no Executive and John Carters appointment as Geoffs changes were made in 2013. successor was properly planned and executed The Company maintains directors & officers insurance Our initiative of involving our non-executive directors in respect of the risk of claims against directors.
This is more extensively in the Groups businesses has continued reviewed annually and has been increased for 2014. successfully, although rotating businesses among them All directors have direct access to the Company Secretary has been delayed due to current and future changes in General Counsel and may take independent professional our non-executive bench advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
Although I conducted an internal evaluation of the Boards I agree the agenda for board meetings in conjunction with performance this year, additional steps were taken to the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary General ensure Board performance was kept up to date with best Counsel.
Agendas are based upon an annual plan, but also practice externally.
John Coleman Senior Independent include matters of particular interest or concern to the Board Director and I held a separate meeting with Egon at any particular time.
Zehnder who have conducted over 400 external board I monitor the information provided to the Board to ensure reviews to compare best practice it is sufficient, timely and clear.
We welcome extensive and regular shareholder I generally contact all the non-executive directors in engagement.
Each year, we aim to engage early and with advance of Board meetings, to suggest the key issues for as wide a range of shareholders as possible.
In particular I discuss the meeting papers with ensure that we have sufficient time to address significant any director who is unable to attend, to obtain that directors shareholder concerns views.
At the meetings, as Chairman, I ensure that each director is able to make an effective contribution within an The following pages summarise the Companys governance atmosphere of transparency and constructive debate.
practices by reference to the five main sections of the Code.
Between board meetings I maintain frequent direct contact with the executive directors and keep the 1.
Leadership non-executive directors informed of material developments.
At 31 December 2013 the Board was made up of five I held a number of meetings during the year with all the non-executive directors including myself as Chairman non-executive directors, without the executive directors and three executive directors.
John Coleman is the Senior being present.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it, which is reviewed annually.
Four items were Board meetings added in December 2013: We held ten Board meetings in 2013 one 2-day meeting Any decision likely to have a material impact on the and one by conference call.
Two meetings considered the Group from any perspective including strategic, financial Groups long-term strategy.
Eight meetings included either or operational visits to parts of the Groups operations or presentations Approval of a conflicts of interest policy, and authorisation by senior executives on their areas of responsibility.
of any conflicts Non-executive directors also made individual visits to Policies on bribery prevention operational sites.
In addition to the regular board meetings, Processes for ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with key financial information is circulated to directors outside shareholders of meetings.
The number of board and committee meetings attended by each director in whole or in part during the year is detailed in the table on the next page.
