NOMINATIONS 83 COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 Dear Fellow Shareholder non-executive directors and is chaired by me other than In introducing my report for the financial year ending when it is dealing with matters in relation to me or the 2013, I thought it would be worthwhile highlighting a chairmanship of the Company.
The Chief Executive, Chief couple of points.
Financial Officer and Human Resources Director are invited Firstly, successfully managing Chief Executive succession to attend when appropriate.
is probably the most important task facing any nominations committee or board of directors.
At Travis Perkins, we have eLeCtion of direCtors sought to manage this issue meticulously over the past two A rigorous selection process precedes the appointment of years.
Our overriding objective has been to mitigate any all directors by the Board, and their recommendation by the investor uncertainty surrounding this important decision.
achieve this, we have: The performance of each director, the Board and each Agreed the Companys long term strategy and the sub-committee is reviewed annually as part of the board corresponding need for internal or external succession evaluation process and I am pleased to confirm that the Debated and agreed the balance of skills required Board recommends the election and re-election of all between CEO and CFO directors who are standing for election and re-election at our Announced the appointment of Tony Buffin as CFO, 2014 AGm.
following Paul Hampden Smiths decision to retire Established a comprehensive development programme aCtivities in 2013 for John Carter, involving each non-executive, and The Committee operates under formal terms of reference external facilitation and met four times during the year.
The principal matters Announced Geoff Coopers retirement in July 2013 to discussed at the meetings were: allow for orderly succession Succession planning for the Board and senior executives Enabled John to announce his senior executive team in The management changes following the decisions by September 2013, and finally Paul Hampden Smith to retire and leave the business in Held a Capital markets day presentation of future Group 2013 and Geoff Cooper to step down as Group Chief strategy in December 2013 Executive and retire on his 60th birthday, 6 march 2014 Throughout these two years, we have sought to keep The search process and the appointment of Group Chief our investors fully informed of the process, both to seek Executive Officer feedback and allay any concerns.
Considering and making recommendations to the Secondly, and as we look ahead, the key task of the Board for the appointment of two new directors and for Nominations Committee for 2014 will be to plan for the changes to the membership of the Committees rotation of two non-executives, John Coleman in 2014 and The on-boarding process for Tony Buffin, on his Andrew Simon in 2015.
Both have been key members of commencement as Group Chief Financial Officer a Board that has served the Company so well.
Examining the operations of the Committee and In seeking to plan for their succession, we are very reviewing its terms of reference clear about the skills and experience required, operating as we do in fast moving, highly competitive trading and board sUCCession retailing businesses.
We believe our Board is best served As mentioned in my introductory note above, the two by individuals who have demonstrated a track record of key tasks facing the Committee during 2013 were to success in leading such businesses, either as CEOs or CFOs.
successfully manage the succession process, and the managing this succession process will be a key challenge appointment of a new non-executive director, following over the next two years and we plan, as before, to keep our the resignation and retirement of Philip Jansen and Chris shareholders fully informed of the process.
In both cases, and after considering alternatives, the Committee appointed Russell Reynolds roLe as external independent search consultants.
I confirm The Committees principal responsibility is to ensure that that Russell Reynolds have no other relationship with the the Board comprises individuals with the most appropriate Company and have signed up to the voluntary code of balance of experience, skills and knowledge to help, develop conduct covering board appointments, following the and support the Company strategy.
In order to achieve Davis Review.
this, the Committee requires procedures to be in place that John Carter, as Deputy Chief Executive, was the enable the nomination, selection and succession of the leading internal candidate to succeed Geoff Cooper most capable directors and senior executives.
After considering the needs The Committee is also responsible for considering, and of the Companys five year strategy, extensive external making recommendations to the Board on succession benchmarking and a structured development programme planning for directors and other senior executives: in this specifically designed for John Carter, the Committee sense the Nominations Committee provides a broader role.
decided to recommend Johns appointment as Group Chief The Nominations Committee comprises all the Executive in July 2013.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT John Carters appointment as Group Chief Executive was boardroom diversity 84 announced in July 2013.
In order to assist with the smooth It is our firm belief that having executives and transition following his retirement and stepping down as non-executives on the Board that are diverse in age, a director on 6 march 2014, Geoff Cooper agreed to experience, nationality or gender, provides us with different continue as an advisor to John Carter on Toolstation Europe perspectives.
This does not just make good commercial for a further 12 month period.
and business sense, but it is good for our colleagues and The Committee also reviewed and approved changes to our customers as well.
John Carters future senior management team that were In addition, we have a clear preference for non-executives announced internally in September 2013. of whatever background, who have demonstrated success As mentioned above, the search for a new non executive as CFOs or CEOs.
director was also conducted by Russell Reynolds.
The brief As a result, our job specifications, search processes and was to attract a proven, successful candidate with broad selection criteria are focused on appointing candidates that experience as a CFO and, if possible, as a general manager.
not only meet the criteria for the role, but who could also We were delighted to announce the appointment of offer different perspectives.
Therefore, diversity, including Christopher Rogers, previously CFO of Whitbread PLC and gender diversity, was actively considered during the year, currently managing Director of Costa Coffee, in July 2013. and this will continue to be reflected in future activities.
Finally, and as a result of Chris Bunker stepping down We are committed to appointing the best people and from the Board after nine years service, the Nominations ensuring all employees are able to develop their careers Committee made the following appointments: within the Group and therefore do not believe it is John Coleman as Senior Independent director with effect appropriate to set targets in this area.
from January 2013 At our most senior director manager level we have one Ruth Anderson as Chair of the Audit Committee with female board director 13%.
We currently have 18% of effect from July 2013 women on our operating executive.
Further details of our Christopher Rogers as a member of the Audit Committee workforce diversity are set out in the Equal Opportunities, with effect from September 2013 Human Rights and Diversity section of the Corporate The individuals involved did not participate in discussions Responsibility Statement on pages 44 and 45. about their appointments.
I will be available at the Annual General meeting to To support our new executives in getting to know the answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
business quickly we launched a new Executive On-Boarding framework aimed at accelerating performance in role.
Robert Walker Chairman 2014 obJeCtives 25 February 2014 As previously outlined, the Committees focus in 2014 will be on succession planning in relation to non-executive directors who are due to step down from the Board as a result of their length of service.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
