TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 73 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn audit committee Audit committee I am satisfied that the Audit Committee was presented with the audit committee comprised four independent non-executive papers of good quality during the year, provided in a timely fashion directors minnow Powell, Sir michael hodgkinson, Janis Kong and to allow due consideration of the subjects under review.
I am also coline mcconville throughout the year ended 30 September 2013 satisfied that meetings were scheduled to allow sufficient time to of whom at least one had recent and relevant financial experience in enable full and informed debate.
we also reviewed our terms of compliance with the code provision c3.1.
reference during the year, including comparing them against the code, and these were approved by the Board.
these are available The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Director of on www.
group audit Services and the external auditor are invited to, and routinely attend, all meetings and other non-executive directors during the year we invited a number of members of management may also attend.
to present to the committee on key areas of risk and control.
i met, individually and in private, with management in order to understand Meetings more fully the context and challenges of their business operations and the audit committee met 10 times during the year two of these thereby ensure the committees time was used most effectively.
we, meetings were specifically called to review and approve draft together and individually, visited various parts of the business and met announcements, results and trading statements of the company.
informally with a number of members of management below Board the chairman of the audit committee reported to the Board on level to gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the role of the how the committee had discharged its responsibilities.
as chairman of the audit committee it is my responsibility to ensure the activities of the committee members during the last year that the committee is rigorous and effective in its role of monitoring have enabled us to gain a good understanding of the culture of and reviewing: the organisation, the risks and challenges faced and the adequacy and timeliness of the action being taken to address them.
the integrity of the financial statements of the Company including formal announcements relating to the Companys financial No major matters were raised in the annual evaluation of the performance and the significant financial reporting judgements committees performance.
contained therein : during the year activities of the committee included the following: the effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management framework including presentations from Group, Sector, regional The integrity of financial reporting and functional management : We reviewed the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the effectiveness of Internal Audit including agreeing in advance the and all formal announcements relating to the Companys financial work of group audit Services and reviewing the results of the work performance.
undertaken : the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns regarding In last years Annual Report we reported on judgements relating to potential impropriety in confidence and ensuring these concerns are revenue recognition and aircraft maintenance Provisions along with investigated appropriately: and our annual review of going concern, impairment, Provision for claims, the integrity of the groups relationship with the external auditors Sdis and tax.
the key areas reviewed in the current year are set out and the effectiveness of the audit process, including reviewing the below.
in each case we reviewed and discussed detailed papers policy for the engagement of the external auditors to supply received from management and took account of the views of the non-audit services, considering their appointment, re-appointment external auditors.
and removal and approving the remuneration and terms of Aircraft engagement of the external auditors.
2013 was a busy year for aircraft transactions with the following events the audit committee agenda is designed, in concert with the Boards, to occurring: ensure that all significant areas of risk are considered during the course 737 maX order signed with Boeing and approved by shareholders: of the year.
during the year we have continued to focus on improving and key financial controls, processes and procedures across the organisation delivery of Boeing 787 aircraft commenced and finalisation of and i am pleased with another year of good progress that has been related credits in respect of entry into Service costs for this new achieved in fulfilling our responsibilities in this regard.
However, there type of aircraft.
are still improvements to be implemented and embedded across the group which will remain a key point of focus for the committee.
indd 73 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 74 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT audit committee continued In respect of the Shareholder Circular, we considered the profit the french tour operating business has suffered an impairment of forecast and working capital statement including the related reports 59m this year, due to the continued downturn in the french economy from Pwc before they were presented to the Board.
in respect of and the difficult trading environment caused by the ongoing political the Boeing 787 aircraft, we reviewed the accounting treatment of unrest and violence in what has traditionally been the popular north entry into Service costs and associated credits to ensure the most african destinations for the french market.
in the absence of any appropriate accounting treatment and we were satisfied with the perceived recovery in these North African destinations particularly judgements made.
egypt in the near-term, management proposed an impairment of 59m of the goodwill attached to the french tour operator and we Denied Boarding Compensation DBC agreed with this judgement.
as a result of a ruling by the european court of Justice in October we also reviewed and approved the sensitivities used by management 2012, there is a present obligation to past events in respect of delay which were consistent with 2012 and a reasonably possible change to compensation being due to passengers where they have been subject model inputs including the related disclosure, as required by iaS 36. to a flight cancellation or a delay of more than three hours subject to certain restrictions.
Provision for claims we reviewed the methodology for provisioning in relation to dBc we examined the risks relating to the main legal cases facing the group exposure, the input factors, the key assumptions being applied and and the adequacy of provisions made against them.
management the classification for financial reporting.
We were satisfied that the presented papers detailing the background to each case, the latest resultant provision had been calculated on a reasonable basis in light developments, their assessment of the respective risks, the mitigating of current claims experience.
action taken and amounts provided.
We agreed with the judgements reached by management in each of the Going concern cases presented.
we assessed our available facilities, facility headroom, our banking covenants and the sensitivity analyses on these items.
Separately Disclosed Items SDIs we challenged managements forecasts including sensitivities to SDIs are those significant items which, in managements judgement, downturns in budgeted trading.
reduced customer deposits were are highlighted by virtue of their size or incidence to enable a full factored explicitly into the model and an assessment of the degree understanding of the Groups financial performance.
We reviewed the of flexibility in the payables ledger at the cash low point in December items proposed by management to be reported as Sdis each quarter 2013 was also taken into account.
to validate that it was appropriate for such items to be reported this way, and agreed with their judgement.
We were satisfied that the going concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate in the context of the groups funding Tax and liquidity position.
We reviewed the judgements together with any related provisions in respect of open areas together with assessments from independent Annual goodwill impairment review experts.
in respect of german trade tax we considered the disclosure During the year we also considered the judgements made in relation as a contingency to be appropriate at this time.
the risks relating to to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model the Spanish Tax case Note 8 and the decision to settle rather than inputs used, which include the approved three-year business plan, litigate were taken by the Board as a whole.
long-term growth rates and weighted average cost of capital.
Communication of accounting policies the annual impairment review has resulted in an impairment charge during the year we noted the continued development of our of 178m which, when added to the 10m charge taken earlier in the internal accounting policy manual including the review and re-issue year, as a consequence of the closure of two businesses, results in a of 15 accounting policies together with the related guidance.
total impairment charge for the year of 188m.
109m of the impairment charge has arisen from businesses within The effectiveness of internal controls and the the Specialist & activity Sector.
following the removal of the Sector risk management framework management team at the start of the financial year, these businesses we recognise that a robust and effective system of internal control have been subjected to a thorough and detailed review, with the is critical to achieving reliable and consistent business performance.
consequence that the latest assessment of their future profitability On behalf of the Board, we review the effectiveness of the risk is lower than anticipated in the prior year.
as a consequence, the management and control systems in relation to the key financial, discounted cash flow was insufficient to support the previous level operational and compliance controls.
we noted continued focus and of goodwill for certain of the Specialist & activity Sector businesses improvement in this area during the year.
consequently an impairment has been taken against these specific businesses.
Full details can be found in Note 10 of the financial the cOSO framework of internal control continues to be implemented statements.
while this has focused primarily on financial Reporting with the review and documentation of the key financial processes, risks and controls, we have noted more focus now starting to be applied to non-financial operations in those parts of the organisation where the risk and control environment is more mature.
indd 74 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 75 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn we have seen continued improvement in the transparency and active Group Compliance ownership of risk management throughout the organisation, driven we noted the continued development and strengthening of the and supported by a strong tone at the top.
we have noted the growing group compliance functions during this year.
the committee strength of the three lines of defence.
whilst we are pleased with the receives presentations from the three group compliance functions progress achieved, there remains much still to do and work in these four times a year.
areas will be ongoing in 2014. group financial compliance.
created in 2011 to provide assurance that individual company balance sheets across the group are fairly First line of defence stated through a programme of site visit reviews to ensure that Management companies in the Group comply with existing financial reporting we spent time with management below Board level in order to requirements.
understand their concerns and the risks, controls and challenges in we received feedback on the individual visits, the ongoing their respective business or functional areas.
with good progress programme of education, communication and independent achieved in strengthening the financial controls across the organisation validation of the financial minimum controls as well as feedback over the last two years, we are now able to broaden our review and are on quarterly self-assessment returns.
inviting the Managing Directors of Sector Source Markets to join their Group Legal & Regulatory Compliance.
Created in January 2012 finance directors in attending the committee in order to encourage to manage legal and regulatory risk across the group, including wider debate and accountability.
Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC and whistleblowing see page 71.
We continued to receive reports from Group Accounting e. g. new we received feedback during the year on the progress being accounting developments and controls over prepayments and group achieved in relation to existing legislation for instance AntiTreasury including Group Treasury policy and counterparty risks.
Bribery & corruption, competition law, anti money laundering, we reviewed and approved the groups overall taxation strategy and Know Your Supplier as well as preparations for new during the year.
this covered the key factors for the groups overall legislation for instance the new EU Data Protection legislation tax position and forecasts for the future tax charge and cash taxes.
During the year we received presentations relating to major projects we also received updates on the development and roll out of as well as receiving presentations on the control environment existing the Supplier Code of Conduct as well as risks identified by the within all key business areas.
six-monthly legal & regulatory compliance checklist.
created in march 2012 to provide a Local compliance functions compliance framework across the groups it function by producing we noted the continued investment in local compliance functions and or publicising appropriate standards and monitoring compliance within our key businesses during the year, which will serve to to those standards using a mixture of self-assessment and a strengthen the control environment closer to the front-end of programme of review visits.
we received reports on the progress being achieved in relation to the development of minimum it controls and plans for the next Second line of defence year.
we also reviewed the groups compliance with Pci dSS Risk Management along with updates on the effectiveness of Business continuity we reviewed the work that the group risk management function Planning BCP and Disaster Recovery DR. We noted the has undertaken to enhance the effectiveness of risk management progress made during the year in relation to BcP and dr and processes throughout the organisation.
we noted the impact of a deadlines set for completion during this coming year.
well-defined risk methodology, effective risk software and improved infrastructure in supporting this improvement.
in addition to reports we noted that the three group compliance functions and the three received from the internal audit function on the adequacy and functions that make up Group Audit Services Risk, Internal Audit effectiveness of risk management in various business areas, we and Fraud have worked closely to ensure the free flow of relevant reviewed the group risk functions own assessment of stakeholder information between them and a co-ordinated and consistent engagement and effectiveness by key business area.
this assessment approach across the group through the group compliance Steering is shared openly with management and the Board and is used as a committee.
in addition, we have received regular We reviewed the talent pool of senior financial management during updates on the work of the group risk management committee the year, noting the continued roll-out of competency testing in during the last year and noted the quality of the risk discussions that conjunction with Korn Ferry for key finance management and the have taken place during the year.
role of the finance academy to educate and train our employees.
While significant improvements have been made in the year, further work to embed them into all our processes and procedures is planned for 2014.
indd 75 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 76 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT audit committee continued Third line of defence The integrity of the Groups relationship Internal Audit with External Audit and the effectiveness we noted further improvements in the development and of the External Audit process effectiveness of the internal audit function during the year against Effectiveness of External Audit the transformation plan set out by the director of the internal again this year we requested a review of the effectiveness of external audit function in fY2012.
in particular, following the successful audit as perceived by 12 senior financial personnel and senior implementation of key infrastructure methodology, systems, risk management closely involved in the year-end reporting process as well assessed auditable universe, we have noted a closer focus on as members of the audit committee.
the approach was consistent restructuring, assessing and developing the internal audit team as with last year, involving 25 questions covering three key areas the an essential element in building a high-performance internal audit robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery and the quality function.
Questions related to professional scepticism, we also noted the close and constructive working relationship that integrity and competence, understanding of the business risks, issues has developed between internal audit and the key control functions and their impact, the clarity and appropriateness of the audit strategy, of group compliance and external audit, which is producing a more the efficiency and effectiveness of audit delivery, constructive efficient and integrated approach to the provision of risk and controls relationships and control recommendations, good judgement and clear assurance.
we noted a general improvement in the scores compared to the previous year and the perception that, overall, the committee holds a private session with the director of group the 2012 audit process had worked well.
we noted that all of the key audit Services without management present once a year.
i also meet actions identified from the previous years review had been addressed.
with the director of group audit Services informally before each Some further areas for improvement were identified during this years committee meeting, without management present, in order to provide review and we will assess progress against these in 2014. in addition, the opportunity for open and timely dialogue.
typically we discuss the we also noted the results of the Audit Quality Review Team part of quality and content of papers due for discussion with the committee, the financial reporting council assessment of the effectiveness of emerging business risks and the quality of management engagement Pwc relative to its peers as well as Pwcs own transparency report.
with internal audit and any areas of concern therein.
details of fees payable to the auditors and its associates are given in The effectiveness of Internal Audit note 7. further information in respect of non-audit services is given again this year we requested a review on the effectiveness of internal on the next page.
the approach was consistent with last year, covering the Audit plan and approach effectiveness of the function positioning, processes, systems and during the year we reviewed Pwcs benchmarking of our organisations people assessed both from an internal perspective functional set-up audit risk profile relative to the FTSE 350 and the audit strategy benchmarked against best practice, file review, interviews of internal developed as a result.
we noted the risk-based audit approach, audit staff and from an external perspective the perception of key areas of audit focus and the audit plan produced as a result.
12 senior financial personnel and senior management and six Board the annual plan takes account of size, complexity and the control members responding to 12 questions.
we noted a marked shift in environment of individual businesses as well as the overall coverage effectiveness from both an internal and external perspective as the split by revenue, absolute eBita and absolute net assets.
in addition, impact of the improvement plan has begun to work its way through we noted and agreed with Pwcs emphasis on substantive as opposed into day-to-day operations.
In addition, I selected a judgemental sample of 16 internal audit the committee holds a private session with the lead Partner from our reports in order to validate that the control assessments made external auditor without management present once a year immediately by the internal audit function were appropriate and in line with our prior to the publication of the year end accounts.
i reviewed these with the director of internal audit and with the lead Partner on a regular basis throughout the year to invited the Chief Financial Officer to do the same and we were satisfied provide the opportunity for open communication and the free flow of that the control assessments were appropriate in each case.
any concerns relating both to the openness, transparency and general engagement of management with the audit process as well as to The arrangements by which staff may raise understand PwCs assessment of key judgements as they arise.
concerns regarding potential impropriety in confidence and that these concerns will be Re-appointment of external auditors investigated appropriately Based on the results of our annual review, and our experience during the year, we have recommended to the Board the re-appointment of we received updates during the year on the arrangements by which the external auditors who have completed their third audit.
We will the business encourages feedback from management and employees continue to review the performance of Pwc formally on an annual on instances of potential impropriety.
this included presentations from basis and, although not required by the uK corporate governance group legal on the development of the whistle-blowing hotlines across code to undertake a formal tender process until 2020, will continue, the Group including number of calls, issues and benchmarking against during this remaining seven-year period, to keep this under close other named companies, from group finance on the development review in the best interests of our shareholders.
of HOT principles Honesty, Openness and Transparency and the communication thereof via the finance academy and, from group hr, an analysis of responses by business level of seniority to three key questions in the Your voice employee feedback survey relating to potentially unethical and or dishonest behaviour.
indd 76 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 77 BuSineSS and financial review Directors report financial StatementS SharehOlder infOrmatiOn Non-audit services Non-Audit Services Significant Expenditure Authorised the audit committee has developed the companys policy on the Business work rationale for use of area undertaken the external auditor 000s engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services and has sought to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair group Boeing Transaction: detailed knowledge 850 the independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditors.
detailed analysis of the and understanding we have achieved this by considering the auditing Practices Board forecast trading results, of the business.
cash and working capital Ethical Standard Number 5 revised.
This relates to non-audit services requirements for the provided to audited entities and sets out six principal threats to group from 1 march objectivity and independence, for example, the auditors cannot act as 2013 to 30 September management nor audit their own work.
we have reviewed, monitored 2014 in support of the and approved, where appropriate, the nature and extent of non-audit circular presented to services provided by the Companys external auditor and are satisfied shareholders as part that their independence and objectivity has not been of a significant Class 1 compromised.
We have also reviewed the fees both individually and transaction.
in aggregate relative to the audit fee and managements compliance germany COSO Operations: won on competitive 420 with the approval thresholds set out in the companys non-audit following on from the tender on the basis of services policy.
first stage of the COSO their detailed knowledge we acknowledge that, in some circumstances, the external auditors project i. e. the Financial and understanding of reporting category the business.
Pwc will understanding of the business can be beneficial in improving the to assist the german support ernst & Young efficiency and effectiveness of advisory work and, therefore, it has business in developing EY in scoping the work been considered appropriate that the external auditors be engaged.
the next stage of and collecting basic a summary of the policy is given below: the project i. e. the information relating to Operations category.
risk and controls, with non-audit fees are capped in any one year to no more than the audit eY responsible for fee itself: ensuring independent review of the results routine tax compliance and advisory services may be provided up to and implementation a pre-approved maximum of 1m in any one financial year, subject of the project.
to the overall cap noted above: any engagement where the value is expected to exceed 100,000, group Functional Baseline detailed knowledge and 270 but be less than 250,000, should be pre-approved by the chairman Assessment: understanding of the of the audit committee: and assist in gathering business its operational engagements at or above 250,000, must be pre-approved by the data and identifying base and stakeholders, opportunities to reduce the requirements of audit committee.
costs and improve the exercise having In total 2m was spent on non-audit fees during the year being 28% performance across completed a similar of audit and audit related fees.
in addition, 1m was spent for services finance, hr and it in exercise in 2007 and to comply with legislation.
further details of non-audit services are set mainstream and a&d.
Significant expenditure that was authorised in the year, i. e. exceeding 250,000, is outlined below: Minnow Powell chairman 9 december 2013 13  v29 copy.
