78 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Nomination Committee The Committees main focus is on strengthening, balancing and Talent management strategy understanding the range of skills, experience and diversity of the The September 2013 meeting focused on the current challenges we Board, its Committees and key roles below Board level.
face to ensure that succession plans are in place for key roles, the mobility of the workforce and providing global career opportunities Composition of the Committee for our people.
We confirmed our commitment to recognise and As at 30 September 2013, the Committee comprised three Independent nurture talented individuals across the whole Group whilst ensuring Non-Executive Directors and one Shareholder Director the latter that suitable development programmes are in place for key managers.
being appointed in accordance with the Relationship Agreement.
The Chairman is Sir Michael Hodgkinson Senior Independent Diversity Non-Executive Director and the other members are Minnow Powell Our diversity objectives were agreed in 2012 and these were considered Independent, Harold Sher Independent and Friedrich Joussen again at the September 2013 meeting.
Rainer Feuerhake and Dr Michael Frenzel both the importance of gender and international diversity and set out our Shareholder Directors retired during the year on 8 February and aim to achieve at least 25% female representation among the Boards 25 March 2013 respectively and Friedrich Joussen was appointed membership by 2015.
As at 30 September 2013, this percentage is as a Committee member on 25 March 2013 to replace Dr Frenzel.
When making new appointments, the Board is committed to seeking directors with the right skillsets and gender balance in line Key objectives with the 25% aspiration.
To identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as directors: Committee effectiveness survey To ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills, mix of Also in September 2013, the Committee considered the results of the knowledge and experience: and survey.
Following a review of the comments made, it was concluded To review and contribute to the talent management strategy for that there should be a greater focus during the coming year on the Board, its Committees and senior managers in order to attract succession planning for Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee will continue to review the membership of the Board and its Committees during the coming year and, as part of this process, Committee activities will also take into consideration the diversity of business skills and During the year two new appointments were made to the Board.
experience gained from different cultural and geographical backgrounds.
Following the retirement of Dr Frenzel Chairman and Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director, Friedrich Joussen and Sebastian Ebel were appointed as TUI AGs Shareholder Directors in accordance Sir Michael Hodgkinson with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Chairman & Senior Independent Director Two meetings of the Nomination Committee took place in March 9 December 2013 and September 2013.
The meeting in March was to consider the appointment of Sebastian Ebel and, in September, the focus was on succession planning, talent management across the Group, diversity and a review of the effectiveness survey.
25% Target for female representation on the Board Sir Michael Hodgkinson by 2015 Chairman 14  v17 copy.
