68 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report Board procedures responsibilities Chairmans introduction The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term success The Board of TUI Travel PLC believes its effectiveness, and that of of the Company by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder the Group, should be underpinned by a strong corporate governance value.
The Board seeks to achieve this through setting out its strategy, framework.
We have put in place robust and efficient governance monitoring its strategic objectives and providing oversight and systems throughout the Group and, within this framework, have direction to the management team.
The Board considers the impact worked hard to establish and embed procedures and processes of its decisions on wider stakeholders including employees, suppliers throughout all our operations.
The Boards main role is to work alongside the executive team to give The Board meets regularly, including visits to operational locations, support and advice but also to provide challenge, where appropriate, and is responsible for the overall leadership, strategy and control of in order to drive continued and sustained improvement across all the Group.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, our businesses.
along with the terms of reference of the Boards key committees While we evaluate our performance and effectiveness formally as and the individual roles of Board members can be found online at a Board each year, we ensure this is a continuing process so that we www.
com and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
are able to react quickly in the fast-changing environment in which The schedule of matters includes: we operate.
determining the strategy of the Group: We believe the Board is well balanced with a broad range of skills and amendments to the structure and capital of the Group: a deep understanding of the challenges which face us now and in the approval of financial reporting: future.
We have made good progress across the governance agenda, oversight of the Groups internal controls: some of which is highlighted in the following pages.
During 2014, we approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: will continue to review proactively the business decisions made and acquisitions, disposals and share dealings: the governance framework in which we operate.
Board membership and appointments: Friedrich Joussen approval of remuneration of Directors and certain Chairman senior management: corporate governance matters: and Compliance UK Corporate Governance Code Provisions approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
The Company has complied with all relevant provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 the Code except in The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of the respect of Code Provision A3.1 the Chairman should on appointment Groups system of internal control and risk management framework and meet the independence criteria set out in Code A3.1 see page 70. this has been developed in accordance with the Code.
This system of control is designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate the risk Leadership of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, For Audit Committee Report see page 73, Nomination Committee internal controls which include financial, operational and compliance Report see page 78 and Remuneration Committee Report see page 79. controls and risk management can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss.
The role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control and the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Chief Executive and, through him, to the other Executive Directors and members of the Group Management Board GMB.
For information on the GMB see Our People on pages 34 and 35.
Board governance structure THE BOARD OF TUI TRAVEL PLC AUDIT COmmITTEE REmUNERATION COmmITTEE NOmINATION COmmITTEE Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Monitors the integrity of our financial reporting, Sets remuneration and incentives for the Executive Ensures that the Board and its Committees has the performance of the internal audit function Directors: approves and monitors remuneration the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and and of the external auditor and reviews the and incentive plans for the Group: and assesses experience by nominating suitable candidates effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal and makes recommendations to the Board on the for approval by the Board to fill executive and control and related compliance activities.
members: members: members: Minnow Powell Chairman Coline McConville Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Chairman Sir Michael Hodgkinson Janis Kong Friedrich Joussen Janis Kong Sir Michael Hodgkinson Minnow Powell Coline McConville Harold Sher 12 Governance v20 copy.
indd 68 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 69 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORs REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The key elements of the control framework and review processes Following the introduction of a secure iPad-based paperless meeting in place across the Group are as follows: system in 2012, its successful roll-out has progressively resulted in the replacement of hard copy packs with electronic versions.
Paperless The Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives.
meetings are now the norm, not only for the TUI Travel PLC Board The GMB and Sector management integrate these objectives and its Committees, the Group Management Board and Sector Board into their operational and financial business plans.
meetings but also many other business meetings being held on a daily The GMB meets regularly, together with other senior executives, to basis throughout the Group.
The ease with which the system has been consider Group operational and financial performance and business adopted and cascaded across many different areas of the organisation development.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on behalf has been better than we could ever have anticipated this supports of the GMB on significant changes in the business and the external our online drive across the Group and is consistent with reducing the environment.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board impact of our operations on the environment.
with financial information which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board The Group operates a risk management process which is integrated and its Committees within the short and long-term business planning processes Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee see page 42.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 1 The Treasury position of the Group, including cash, foreign exchange Friedrich Joussen Chairman 6 6 1 1 2 and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with Dr Michael Frenzel 4 4 3 3 policies appropriate for each Sector and is the responsibility of the Sir Michael Hodgkinson Senior Independent Director Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
& Deputy Chairman 9 9 1 1 10 10 6 6 Financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity analysis, Peter Long Chief Executive 9 9 are prepared routinely throughout the year for review by the GMB Johan Lundgren and the Board.
These forecasts also include details of the Groups Deputy Chief Executive 8 9 ongoing compliance with its regulatory and banking requirements.
Executive Directors Dr Volker Bttcher The Group has established investment appraisal and authorisation MD German Specialist Businesses 9 9 procedures and its capital expenditure is reviewed against budgets Will Waggott 9 9 which have been approved by the Board.
Independent Non-Executive Directors The Group also routinely assesses the capability of its people to Tony Campbell 9 9 deliver the business objectives set and responds accordingly.
This Janis Kong 9 9 10 10 6 6 is supported by the three lines of defence see page 42.
Coline McConville 9 9 10 10 6 6 Minnow Powell 9 9 1 1 10 10 Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where Erhard Schipporeit 6 9 necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through the Groups Dr Albert Schunk 9 9 internal control and risk management processes see page 42.
Harold Sher 9 9 1 1 Non-Executive Directors The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the not considered independent effectiveness of internal controls during the year and confirms that: Horst Baier 9 9 3 Sebastian Ebel 5 5 there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and 4 Rainer Feuerhake 3 3 2 2 managing the significant risks faced by the Group: this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings during the year in which the individual was a Board member.
the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and Notes: the process accords with the Code.
1 Appointed to the Board with effect from 8 February 2013.
In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the risk 2 Chairman of the Board until he retired on 25 March 2013. management process.
3 Appointed to the Board with effect from 25 March 2013.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief 4 Non-Executive Director until he retired on 8 February 2013.
Executive is clearly established, has been agreed by the Board and is Dr Erhard Schipporeit was unable to attend three of the meetings of the reviewed by the Company Secretary on a regular basis.
The Board Board as they conflicted with meetings already in his diary for listed approves any necessary amendments to reflect changes in legislation, companies in Germany.
He is the Chairman of the Audit Committee policy and practices.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company meetings of the Non-Executive Directors Secretary and can take independent professional advice, if necessary, A meeting of the Non-Executive Directors took place in February 2013 at the Companys expense.
To the Company Secretarys knowledge, with Sir Michael Hodgkinson in the Chair.
The main focus of the meeting no such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
was to appraise Dr Frenzel who was then the Chairman and discuss The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures general operational matters.
are followed, including the formal minuting of any unresolved concerns Two meetings have been scheduled for 2014 and others will be held that any Director may have in connection with the operation of the as the need arises.
During the year there were no such unresolved issues.
indd 69 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 70 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report continued Company secretary In accordance with the Code, all Directors will be subject to annual As part of his retirement plan, and in line with the Companys succession re-election by shareholders.
To enable shareholders to make an informed planning, Andrew John has decided to step down from his role as decision, the 2014 Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM includes Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Andrew will continue in biographical details and a statement as to why the Company believes a new role within the organisation and will remain on the GMB during the Directors should be re-elected.
The Chairman intends to confirm a 12-month transition period.
With effect from 1 October 2013 there at the AGM that the performance of each individual continues to be are two new appointments Mike Bowers formerly General Counsel, effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Mainstream Tour Operating as Group Legal Director and Joyce Walter The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all formerly Deputy Company Secretary as Company Secretary.
Joyce is Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of and has been Deputy Company Secretary since the merger in 2007. commitment in their respective roles.
Effectiveness The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 79.
Directors interests Board composition in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 93.
Our Board consists of 15 Directors 13 of whom served throughout the year.
At 30 September 2013, in addition to the Chairman, Friedrich Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Joussen, there were four Executive Directors and 10 Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Directors.
Friedrich Joussen and Sebastian Ebel were appointed as registered office and will be available at the AGM which is scheduled Non-Executive Directors on 8 February and 25 March 2013 to take place on Thursday 6 February 2014. respectively.
On 25 March 2013, Dr Michael Frenzel retired from his Following the appointment of any new Director, the Chairman, in position as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and was replaced conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that a full, formal by Friedrich Joussen.
and tailored induction to the Company is made available.
The Company Secretary is on hand to answer any questions which may arise.
All Independence of Non-Executive Directors Directors have been given a detailed induction and training manual.
The Chairman, Friedrich Joussen, did not comply with the independence During the year, Friedrich Joussen and Sebastian Ebel have had criteria of the Code at the time of his appointment.
This is because detailed overviews on all the Sectors across the Group as part of Mr Joussen is the Chief Executive of TUI AG a 54.48% shareholder their induction programme.
of the Company as at 30 September 2013.
Details of the Chairmans other significant commitments are given Directors conflicts of interests in his biography on page 66.
He has no other external roles and the Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have a statutory duty Board is confident that he has sufficient time to perform his duties to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect as Chairman of the Company.
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts Of the other 10 Non-Executive Directors, Horst Baier and Sebastian Ebel and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of association are also not considered to be independent as they are both members contain a provision to this effect.
of TUI AGs Executive Board.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is The Non-Executive Directors considered to be independent are satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Directors of Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Tony Campbell, Janis Kong, Coline McConville, the Company.
The process for monitoring conflicts is as follows: Minnow Powell, Dr Erhard Schipporeit, Dr Albert Schunk and Harold Sher.
changes to the commitments of all Directors are reported to the Board: The Board recognises that the Code requires that at least half the the Directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent Non-Executive on appointment and annually thereafter: Directors and was compliant with provision B1.2 of the Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Board is committed any conflicts identified are presented to the Board for consideration to ensure that its membership is refreshed on a regular basis.
and, as appropriate, authorised in accordance with the Companies Act and the articles of association: and skills and experience Directors are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 66 they become aware of any actual or potential conflict situations and can also be found online at www.
or a change in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation.
The Directors have collective responsibility for the Companys The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with direction.
In particular Non-Executive Directors are responsible for: conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
scrutinising and challenging performance across the Groups business: bringing wide-ranging skills and experience, including independent judgement on issues such as strategy, performance and risk management: assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls: and constructively challenging the Chief Executive and Executive Directors.
indd 70 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 71 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORs REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Performance evaluation Our ABC due diligence around high-risk profile contracting has been Each year the performance of the Board and its Committees Audit, improved during the year.
We are proud of our new Supplier Code of Remuneration and Nomination is evaluated.
This year the evaluation Conduct detailing the Groups ethical and compliance expectations of was undertaken by an online survey and comprised a series of questions suppliers.
This is one of the first of its kind in our industry and has in relation to the running of, and business conducted at, Board meetings.
been in roll out to all our material suppliers since May 2013 see The questions also covered the performance of individual Directors Sustainable Development on page 26.
Anti-Bribery responsibilities including the Chairman of each Committee.
Each Director was asked are now included in all new supplier contracts.
to place a score against the questions and the Directors were able to Group Audit Services administer a yearly Conflict of Interest make additional comments where appropriate.
declaration for 2,000 senior managers which will extend to new joiners Every third year the evaluation is facilitated by an independent external in 2014. advisor which was the case last year in accordance with the Code.
Whistle-blowing Summary reports were produced following analysis of the responses by Whistle-blowing hotlines are now fully operational in the UK, USA, broad category and by reference to a traffic-light system showing the Canada, Germany, France, Switzerland, Poland, Belgium, Norway, number of red, amber and green scores.
The Board and its Committees Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Italy, Spain, Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, China, considered the reports of their effectiveness at their meetings in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, September 2013 and were satisfied with the overall scores.
As a result Peru, Portugal, Brazil, Singapore, South Africa, Turkey, Vietnam, and of this years evaluation, the Board intends to: the British virgin Islands.
enhance further its contribution to, and focus on, strategic planning: This covers businesses in all major source and destination markets which provide more opportunities for the Directors to meet with have more than 50 employees.
There is also a web-based whistleexecutives and senior managers to assist in succession planning: and blowing reporting service in Cape verde, Cuba, Kenya, the Maldives and continue to work towards ensuring that the composition of the Tunisia.
Austria is completing its Data Protection Authoritys approval Board reflects the diversity of the Companys employee base.
process and, excluding Austria, these confidential hotlines and webmail reporting facilities now cover 99% of Group Revenue.
In the year ahead, the Board will continue to review its effectiveness and procedures.
Any matters arising from the use of the whistle-blowing channels are investigated as appropriate and a summary provided to the Audit Dr Michael Frenzels performance as Chairman was reviewed in February Committee.
The Legal & Regulatory Compliance Department works 2013 prior to his resignation in March 2013 and it was concluded that in conjunction with Group Audit Services to investigate and advise he managed meetings well and allowed full and open debate.
As Friedrich on any incidents around the Group.
Joussen is relatively new to his role as Non-Executive Chairman, it is intended that his first review will be undertaken in February 2014.
The TUI Travel Code of Conduct makes it clear that employees can approach senior executives, or Group Audit Services, to make reports Accountability and emphasises that anyone making a report with honest intentions need not fear any adverse consequences even if the information The Directors Responsibilities Statement can be found on page 102. provided proves to be unfounded.
The Business & Financial Review, the Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report, Directors and Remuneration Report Competition compliance can be found on pages 54 to 63, 73 to 77, 78 and 79 to 98 respectively.
A comprehensive competition training, knowhow and support programme is in development to remind our senior management, Legal and regulatory compliance purchasing teams and others of their obligations to foster healthy A twice-yearly Legal & Regulatory Compliance self-certification process competition and protect against anti-competitive practice under EU is in place, where all operational businesses across the Group certify and local legislation through the jurisdictions in which we do business.
their progress in benchmarking base-level to gold standard operational The training programme, which consists of face-to-face seminars for Legal & Regulatory controls against Group criteria in the areas of senior management, and e-learning for other colleagues, will be Anti-Bribery & Corruption ABC, Competition, Data Protection and progressively rolled out during 2014 and will require them to re-affirm Health & Safety.
Businesses answer detailed questions about their their commitment to leading responsibly and competing vigorously practices and provide extra information when required.
Those responses in all our markets.
inform a tailored, proactive and strategic approach to risk management.
They are analysed, prioritised and used to monitor the progress of businesses in these vital areas.
87% of employees across the Group have undergone risk-focused, travel-industry specific training on their responsibilities under anti-bribery legislation.
Updated ABC, Business Gifts & Hospitality and Investigation policies have been communicated.
A Compliance intranet page has been created to give greater online visibility of our initiatives.
indd 71 13 12 2013 17:53 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 72 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Corporate Governance report continued Relations with shareholders The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Investor Relations team hold regular meetings with major shareholders to review the Groups performance and prospects.
The views of shareholders are communicated to all members of the Board following such meetings.
During the course of these meetings the issue of governance is discussed.
Presentations to major shareholders are made at least twice yearly, after the announcement of the interim and preliminary results, details of which, together with the Groups financial reports and other announcements, can be accessed via the Groups website www.
The Code recommends that the Senior Independent Director meets with a range of major shareholders to gain an understanding of their views.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson Senior Independent Director and Coline McConville Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held meetings with several major shareholders during October 2013.
They also met with shareholders in October last year to explain the changes in the Committee membership and to discuss remuneration policy generally see page 88 for further details.
As a result of the extensive investor feedback provided by the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, and those Non-Executive Directors who did meet with shareholders, the remaining NonExecutive Directors did not consider it necessary to meet with other major shareholders during the year.
They believe that they are kept aware of all issues, which are fed back to them at Board meetings, and therefore additional meetings were not required.
However, they have confirmed they would be happy to make themselves available if any shareholder requested such a meeting.
Regular updates are produced by the Companys brokers and circulated to the Board to keep them informed of market and industry views.
The updates also include analyst views of TUI Travels position in the market.
There is an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the AGM.
The AGM also provides a forum for the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the views of shareholders with them directly.
In respect of general meetings of the Company: the Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately: proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to vote for, against or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form makes it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted: all postal proxy votes are returned to Equiniti the Companys Registrar which is responsible for ensuring votes are properly received and counted: proxy counts are displayed at the close of the AGM and the final poll results are posted on the Companys website www.
com following closure of the meeting: and the Annual Report and Accounts is laid before shareholders at the AGM.
