Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE CONTINUED Re-election The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness of All Directors seek re-election on an annual basis and the Groups risk management activities and internal control accordingly all Directors will stand for re-election in 2014, processes.
Any system of internal control can provide only other than David Bamford who is retiring from the Board reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board has set out in financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of the Notice of Annual General Meeting its reasons for failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The supporting the re-election of each of the Directors at Boards objective is to ensure that Tullow has appropriate the forthcoming AGM.
systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
Accountability The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate clear assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
teams throughout the year to enable it to assess on an This is achieved through this report and as required in ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal other periodic financial and trading statements.
The arrangements established by the Board for the During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed application of risk management and internal control a number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to principles are detailed below.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were the Audit Committee oversight of the relationship with the identified.
The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Groups external auditors as outlined in the Audit Committee Committee it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of report on page 89. internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and considers that the system of internal Going concern controls operated effectively throughout the financial year The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
and up to the date on which the financial statements Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities are were signed.
run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in commodity prices, different production rates Remuneration from the Groups producing assets and delays to The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee development projects.
In addition to the Groups operating responsibility for agreeing the remuneration policy for the cash flows, portfolio management opportunities are reviewed Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and potentially to enhance the financial capacity and flexibility senior executives.
The Directors Remuneration Report on of the Group.
The Groups forecasts, taking into account pages 98 to 115 contains full details of the role and activities reasonably possible changes as described above, show of the Remuneration Committee.
that the Group will be able to operate within its current Constructive use of the AGM debt facilities and have significant financial headroom for The AGM held on 8 May 2013 provided individual the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2013 shareholders with the opportunity to receive a business Annual Report and Accounts.
presentation and to put questions to the Chairman, the Internal controls Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Committees and other members of the Board.
Tullow Groups and the Companys systems of internal control, continues to hold a significant shareholder base in Ireland which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and held a business presentation in Dublin on 16 May 2013 and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both following the AGM to maintain strong links with this group internal use and external publication and to comply with the of investors.
The Groups internal control A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2013 AGM, procedures require technical, financial and Board approval with the final results which included all votes cast for, for all projects.
All major expenditures require Senior against and those withheld announced via the London Stock Management approval at the appropriate stages of each Exchange and on the Companys corporate website as soon transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed as practicable after the meeting.
Notice of the AGM is sent to reporting system covering both technical progress of shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating On behalf of the Board and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business unit documents its strategic objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
Key Simon R Thompson risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
There is a Chairman comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board.
11 February 2014 Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial projections for future years are regularly prepared.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 3 3 Governance Steve Lucas was appointed Audit Committee Chairman in May 2012.
Steve, who is a Chartered Accountant, was finance director at National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience, Steve Lucas therefore meets this requirement.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Ann Grant, Tutu Agyare, Anne Drinkwater and Jeremy Wilson, who joined the Committee in 2013, and brings extensive strategic and corporate finance experience.
Biographies of the Committee members are given on page 47.
Together the members of the Committee bring a DEAR SHAREHOLDER broad range of industry, commercial and financial experience Effective governance is a key feature of the which is vital in supporting effective governance.
way Tullow manages its business and risks.
The Board Audit Committee has a vital role The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit in advising the Board that the Annual Manager, the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Company Secretary and representatives of the External is fair, balanced and understandable and Auditors are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee provides the information necessary for and participated in all of the meetings during 2013.
The shareholders to assess the Companys Chairman of the Board also attends meetings of the performance, business model and strategy.
Committee by invitation and was present at all of the The Committee provides assurance that meetings in 2013.
The external auditors have unrestricted the financial statements provide a true and access to the Committee Chairman.
fair view of the Groups financial affairs and In 2013, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
that our internal business controls remain Meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient time for full effective and protect the interests discussion of key topics and to enable early identification and of shareholders.
resolution of risks and issues.
Meetings are aligned with the Groups financial reporting calendar.
During the year the Committee reviewed requirements included in the revised The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference Corporate Governance Code issued in 2012, during the year.
These are in line with best practice and specifically in relation to Financial Reporting reflect the changes made in September 2012 to the UK and Audit Committee requirements and Governance Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit implemented changes to ensure compliance Committees.
The Audit Committees terms of reference can with the revised Code.
be accessed via the corporate website.
The Board approved the terms of reference in 2013.
Summary responsibilities The Committees detailed responsibilities are described in its Terms of Reference and include: Steve Lucas Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Group, reviewing and reporting to the Board on 11 February 2014 significant financial reporting issues and judgements: Review and challenge, where necessary, the consistency of significant accounting policies, and whether appropriate accounting standards have been used: Review the content of the Annual Report and Accounts and advise the Board on whether it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Tullows performance, business model and strategy: Review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: Review the adequacy of the whistle blowing system, the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and the systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, and receive reports on non-compliance: www.
com 89 Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED A key element of the governance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS balanced and understandable.
To ensure this requirement is met by Tullow the Group takes a collaborative approach to Approval of half-year and full-year creating its Annual Report and Accounts, with direct input financial statement from the Board throughout the process.
The process of Review of the effectiveness of the external planning, writing and reviewing the Report is run by a central audit process project team, alongside a formal audit process undertaken Review of the work of the independent reserves by our external Auditor.
auditors work In order for the Audit Committee and the Board to be Assessment of the remit and results of satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the internal audit final report, the following steps are taken: Oversight of key risks associated with major IT Early planning, taking into consideration regulatory systems projects changes and best practice: Review of the insurance arrangements of Comprehensive guidance issued to key report the Group contributors across the Group: Audit Committee membership Validation of data and information included in the report Meetings both internally and by external auditors: attended out of a total A series of key proof dates for comprehensive review Committee member possible across different levels in the Group that aim to ensure Steve Lucas 4 4 consistency and overall balance: and Tutu Agyare 4 4 Senior management and Board sign-off.
Anne Drinkwater 4 4 Ann Grant 4 4 The following describes the work completed to discharge the Audit Committees main responsibilities: Jeremy Wilson 1 1 Appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on Financial reporting 21 October 2103 Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
Reviewing the significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies and disclosures in the Review and assess the annual internal audit plan and financial reports.
receive a report on the results of the internal audit The Committee met with the external auditors as part of the functions work on a periodic basis: full-year and half-year accounts approval process.
During Oversee the relationship with the external auditor this exercise the Committee considered the key audit risks including assessing their independence and objectivity identified as being significant to the 2013 accounts and the and review the annual audit plan to ensure it is most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or consistent with the scope of the audit engagement, judgemental matters identified during the audit and halfand review of the findings of the audit: yearly review as well as any recommendations or Assess the qualifications, expertise and resources of the observations made by the external auditors.
The primary auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2013 accounts and how these were addressed are Ensure that at least once every ten years the audit detailed below: services contract is put out to tender.
Key areas reviewed in 2013 The Committee fully discharged its responsibilities during Allocation of Audit Committee time the year.
Following publication of the revised version of the UK Governance compliance Financial results matters 5% Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financial years 50% commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board Business controls requested that the Committee advise them on whether it 20% believes the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Internal audit matters information necessary for shareholders to assess the 25% Companys performance, business model and strategy.
90 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance 3 Significant financial judgements for 2013 How the Committee addressed these judgements The Group has a very active exploration and appraisal work Intangible assets programme and the Committee reviews and challenges The amounts for intangible exploration and evaluation assets management assumptions and judgements underlying the represent active exploration projects.
These amounts will be calculation of intangible assets for each well at each balance written off to the income statement as exploration costs unless sheet date.
In addition, Deloitte LLP have identified this as a commercial reserves are established or the determination significant area of focus for their audit and undertake discussions process is not completed.
The process of determining whether with operational and finance staff to challenge evidence provided there is an indicator for impairment or calculating the impairment by management to support the value of intangible assets and requires critical judgement.
The key areas in which management provide detailed reporting to the Committee on the results of have applied judgement are as follows: the Groups intention to their work.
This is a recurring area of judgement.
proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence renewal or extension and the success of a well result or geological or geophysical survey.
Following the farm-down of Ugandan assets in 2012 the Uganda Taxation Revenue Authority assessed Capital Gains Tax on the transaction.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary Judgements over the level of provision and the outcome of legal course of its business, including tax claims from tax authorities proceedings underpin management assumptions page 41.
The in a number of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Committee satisfied itself that the treatment of these issues and Group assesses all such claims in the context of the tax laws of judgements applied through reporting from senior management the countries in which it operates and, where applicable, makes supported by advice from external professional advisers and provision for any settlements which it considers are probable.
This is also an area of higher risk and as a result the Committee receives in-depth written and oral reporting from Deloitte LLP on their conclusions from the audit of these matters.
This is an area of judgement specific to 2013.
Management provided written support of the judgement and a Recoverability of contingent consideration copy of the MoU between the Government of Uganda GoU and The Group has recognised a current receivable of $358 million partners for a basin-wide development including a crude oil at 31 December 2013 in respect of contingent consideration export pipeline and refinery.
The agreement was signed by the receivable from the Uganda farm-down.
Recoverability of this GoU and partners in February 2014.
The Committee reviewed and receivable is dependent on a number of judgements in respect challenged these judgements and supporting evidence and to the timing of the receipt of certain project approvals.
Deloitte LLP have also challenged the underlying assumptions as part of their audit, see page 123.
The estimated decommissioning costs are reviewed annually and Decommissioning are estimated by reference to operators, where applicable and Decommissioning costs are uncertain and cost estimates can appropriate, internal engineers and independent specialists.
vary in response to many factors, including changes to the A review of certain decommissioning cost estimates was relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new technology undertaken by an independent specialist at the start of 2013 or experience at other assets.
The expected timing, work scope, which has been assessed and updated internally for the amount of expenditure and risk weighting may also change.
purposes of the 2013 financial statements.
Provision for Therefore significant estimates and assumptions are made environmental clean-up and remediation costs is based on in determining the provision for decommissioning.
current legal and contractual requirements, technology and price levels.
The impact on decommissioning estimates resulting from this study was reviewed and challenged by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP also reviewed the results of the independent review as part of their audit.
Value in use of property, plant and equipment Results of the impairment tests were discussed and challenged Management performs impairment tests on the Groups property, by the Committee and Deloitte review these calculations and plant and equipment assets at least annually with reference to audit the underlying economic models to satisfy themselves of indicators in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and performs the integrity of the process.
valuations on acquired property, plant and equipment in conjunction with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires estimation of future cash flows within complex impairment models.
Key assumptions and estimates in the impairment models relate to commodity prices that are based on forward curves for two years and the long-term corporate economic assumptions thereafter, discount rates that are adjusted to reflect risks specific to individual assets, commercial reserves and the related cost profiles.
com 91 Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED External auditor been placed on them by management, maintaining the Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment independence of the audit and how they have exercised or re-appointment of the Groups external auditor and professional challenge.
In addition the Board Chairman overseeing the Boards relationship with the external auditor also meets the external auditor after the annual audit to and, where appropriate, the selection of new external discuss the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and auditor, and assessing the effectiveness of the external any other issues: audit process.
In order to ensure the effectiveness of the external audit process, Deloitte conduct an appropriate audit risk The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the identification process at the start of the audit cycle.
Audit Committee should have primary responsibility This plan is presented to the Audit Committee for their for making a recommendation on the appointment, review and approval and for the 2013 audit the key audit re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
risks identified included carrying values of intangible On the basis of the review of external audit effectiveness assets, tax judgements, decommissioning provision described below, the Committee recommended to estimates, and recoverability of other non-current the Board that it recommends to shareholders the assets.
These and other identified risks are reviewed re-appointment of the auditor at the 2014 AGM: through the year and reported at Audit Committee The external auditor is required to rotate the audit meetings where the Committee challenges the work partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
completed by the auditor and tests managements 2013 is the second year of the current lead audit assumptions and estimates in relation to these risks.
The audit contract was last tendered The Committee also seeks an assessment from in 2004 and no contractual obligations existed that acted management of the effectiveness of the audit process: to restrict the Audit Committees choice of external In addition a questionnaire addressed to all attendees of auditor.
Tullow notes the Competition Commissions the Audit Committee is used to assess Audit Committee review of the statutory audit tendering requirements, effectiveness.
This questionnaire was expanded to and also recognises the proposed European Union test include additional questions on the effectiveness of the on Audit Regulation and Directive, and the current External Audit process leading to all members of the requirements of the Corporate Governance Code and Committee providing detailed feedback: transitional guidance in relation to audit tendering.
In light of these ongoing discussions, the Audit Committee As a result of these reviews, the Audit Committee has agreed to recommend to the Board that we follow considered the external audit process to be the current transitional guidance of the Code.
The Audit operating effectively: Committee will reconsider the timing of audit tendering The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and once the wider regulatory situation is confirmed: non-audit services provided by the external auditors to The Groups external auditor is Deloitte LLP and the the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to Audit Committee assessed the qualification, expertise assignments that are closely related to the annual audit and resources, and independence of the external or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed auditor as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy for the This review covered all aspects of the audit service engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on services is in place to formalise these arrangements, the audit firms own internal quality control procedures which requires Audit Committee approval for certain and consideration of the audit firms annual categories of work.
This policy is in line with updated transparency reports in line with the UK Corporate Audit Practice Board Ethical Standards and FRC Governance Code.
The Audit Committee also approved Guidance to Audit Committees, and is available on the the external audit terms of engagement and corporate website.
The policy is designed to ensure the remuneration.
During 2013 the Committee held a external auditors independence is maintained: and private meeting with the external auditor and the Audit A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in Committee Chairman also maintained regular contact respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 4 with the audit partner throughout the year.
These to the financial statements.
In addition to processes put meetings provide an opportunity for open dialogue with in place to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit the external auditor without management being roles, Deloitte LLP is required, as part of the assurance present.
Matters discussed included the auditors process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the assessment of significant financial risks and the Committee that they have both the appropriate performance of management in addressing these risks, independence and the objectivity to allow them to the auditors opinion of managements role in fulfilling continue to serve the members of the Company.
This obligations for the maintenance of internal controls, the confirmation was given and no matters of concern were transparency and responsiveness of interactions with identified by the Committee.
management, confirmation that no restrictions have 92 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
