Corporate Governance 3 Internal controls and risk management The Committee receives summaries of investigations of Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups known or suspected fraudulent activity by third parties internal control procedures and risk management systems.
and employees including ongoing monitoring and following-up of fraud investigations: and The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of Groups internal control procedures and risk Internal Audit through its review of progress versus management systems through the work of the internal plan, the results of audits reported at each of the audit team, the external auditors observations on meetings, and through the use of a questionnaire internal financial controls identified as part of their completed by financial and operational managers audit, and through regular reporting by the business and by the Audit Committee, covering aspects of audit unit and corporate teams to the Board: delivery during 2013.
Results of the questionnaire In addition, the Committee received reports from the were reviewed by the Committee and actions to independent reserves auditors ERCE and reviewed the further improve internal audit effectiveness are arrangements in place for managing Information being implemented.
Technology risk relating to the Groups critical information systems: and Whistle-blowing procedure Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure The Committee also reviewed the Groups global is in place.
In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to Internal audit requirements the highest ethical standards, an independent whistleConsidering how the Groups internal audit requirements blowing procedure has been in operation during the shall be satisfied and making recommendations to year to allow staff to confidentially raise any concerns the Board.
This procedure complements the established internal reporting process.
The whistleThe Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access blowing policy is included in the revised Code of and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main Business Conduct which is available on the corporate responsibilities include: evaluating the development website.
The Committee considers the whistle-blowing of the Groups overall control environment: operating procedures to be appropriate for the size and scale of efficiency and risk identification and management at the Group.
operating, regional and corporate levels.
During 2013, the Group Internal Audit Manager met with the Audit Review of effectiveness of the Audit Committee Committee Chairman and with the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee completed a without the presence of management to assess review of the effectiveness of external audit, Internal managements responsiveness to Internal Audit Audit and of the Audit Committee itself through a series recommendations made during the year and to assess of questionnaires.
Internal Audit coordinated the review.
the effectiveness of Internal Audit: The Committee was considered to be operating The Committee reviewed and challenged the effectively and in accordance with the guidance programme of 2013 internal audit work developed to recommended by the Smith Committee included address both financial and overall risk management in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
objectives identified within the Group.
The plan was subsequently adopted with progress reported at each of the Audit Committee meetings.
33 internal audit reviews were undertaken during the year, covering a range of financial and business processes in the Groups main business units in London and Dublin and the main operational locations in Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and Mauritania.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the status of the implementation of internal audit recommendations.
No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of risk management and internal control reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2013.
The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated joint ventures under the supervision of business unit management and the Group Internal Audit Manager: www.
com 93 Corpor Corporate Go ate Gov vernanc ernance e NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee reviews the composition and balance of the Board and Senior Executive team on a regular basis to ensure that Tullow has the right structure, skills and diversity of experience in place for the effective management of the Groups expanding business.
This analysis is reviewed and discussed with the Board, with the aim of scheduling a progressive refreshment of the Board over time.
It is the Committees policy when conducting a search for a new Executive or a non-executive Director to appoint external search consultants to provide the Committee with a list of possible candidates against an agreed role and experience specification from which a shortlist is produced.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Board of Tullow consists of five The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually Executive and seven non-executive and can be accessed on the corporate website.
Directors, who together bring a diverse and complementary range of backgrounds, Main responsibilities personal attributes and experience.
The Committees main duties are: Biographies of all the members of the Board can be found on pages 46 to 47 Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the of this report.
Board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members and making recommendations The main task of the Nominations to the Board with regard to any changes required: Committee is to ensure that the balance of Succession planning for Directors and other skills and expertise provided by the Board Senior Executives: remains appropriate to meet the current Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, and future needs of the Company.
We also candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when supervise the recruitment and development they arise: of senior executives to ensure that we are building a diverse management pipeline Reviewing annually the time commitment required capable of stepping up to fill the most of non-executive Directors: and senior positions in the Company in the Making recommendations to the Board regarding coming years.
membership of the Audit, Remuneration and EHS In October 2013, we were pleased to Committees in consultation with the Chairman of welcome Jeremy Wilson, who joined the each Committee.
Jeremy Committee membership and meetings fulfils the requirement identified by the The Committee currently comprises four non-executive Nominations Committee for a director Directors.
Simon Thompson was Chairman of the Committee with extensive international corporate and throughout the year.
The membership and attendance of project finance experience, specifically in members at Committee meetings held in 2013 are shown relation to the oil and gas sector.
His in the table on page 95. appointment augments the Boards oversight of our portfolio management In addition to the formal meetings held, Committee and major project financing activities.
members conducted a number of interviews, informal We are also well advanced in identifying a discussions and telephone conversations on various issues successor to David Bamford, who retires at falling within its remit.
the forthcoming AGM, and who, for the past nine years has provided invaluable advice Committee activities and guidance, particularly in relation to The principal activities of the Committee during 2013 and exploration matters.
subsequent to the year end were: Board refreshment as noted in last years report the Committee had commenced a search for a new nonexecutive Director to replace Steve McTiernan who Simon Thompson retired as a non-executive director on 31 December Chairman of the Nominations Committee 2012.
Spencer Stuart who do not have any other connection with the Company had been appointed 11 February 2014 to draw up a list of candidates against an agreed specification.
Subsequently, on 18 September 2013, the Board approved a recommendation by the Committee 94 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
