Governance Corporate governance statement continued How the Board operates Attendance at Board and Committee meetings in 2013 A number of processes are in place to help the Board perform as Audit Remuneration Nomination effectively as possible.
There is a formal schedule of matters to be Board Committee Committee Committee considered by the Board which is reviewed annually.
Director 9meetings 3 meetings 6meetings 4meetings 1 Dame Helen Alexander 9 3 6 4 Board responsibilities include: 1 David Levin 9 5 1 1 approval of the annual budget including capital expenditure and Robert Gray 9 3 1 Treasury policy: Alan Gillespie 8 2 3 approval of UBMs strategy: Pradeep Kar 9 6 4 approval of the interim and annual financial statements: Greg Lock 9 2 6 4 succession planning: Terry Neill 9 3 4 dividend policy: Jonathan Newcomb 9 3 4 major acquisitions and disposals and substantial property Karen Thomson 9 1 of 1 6 4 transactions: and UBMs system of internal controls.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the Executive Alan Gillespie was unable to attend the September Board and Directors and to divisional Boards under formally documented authorities.
Nomination Committee meetings owing to a medical emergency.
Alan Gillespie and Greg Lock were unable to attend the December Audit We have an established agenda of items to be considered at Board Committee meeting owing to prior diary commitments.
meetings, which provides regular updates on UBMs finances, operations, strategy and development.
Standing items include written Board meetings are generally held at UBMs London office.
In reports from the CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and Company accordance with our plan to meet annually at one of our overseas Secretary and on Communications and Investor Relations.
A forward business locations, in September the Board visited our office in Hong planner in each Board pack provides an overview of these and other Kong and met with employees and senior management of UBM Asia matters which are scheduled for consideration over the course of the as well as visiting the Hong Kong Jewellery Show.
Directors may seek independent professional advice if they consider it Presentations are made by Executive Directors and by divisional appropriate in relation to their duties.
All Directors have access to the management and other senior executives on specific issues.
Guidelines advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has primary have been established for such presentations to ensure that the Board responsibility for informing Directors of general developments which receives adequate information and has sufficient time for debate may be relevant to their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is not andchallenge.
Papers for Board and Committee meetings are circulated at least six days before meetings to give Directors adequate time to review them.
We use an electronic system to deliver Board and Committee papers, thereby making our communications more efficient and reducing paper usage.
Management accounts are circulated to Directors on a monthly basis and other information is distributed between meetings as appropriate.
Board discussions are held in an atmosphere of transparency, trust and mutual respect with adequate time allowed for debate.
The Board has six scheduled meetings a year and meetings may be convened at other times as and when necessary: nine Board meetings were held during 2013.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings are set out in the table.
As part of its strategy overview, the Board regularly considers specific risks facing the business.
38 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
