Governance Audit committee Jonathan Newcomb Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman Overview Jonathan Newcomb The Audit Committee is an essential element of UBMs governance framework, to which the Board has delegated oversight of UBMs Members financial reporting, risk management, internal audit and external audit.
Alan Gillespie The Audit Committee is also, at the Boards request, responsible for Greg Lock advising the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, Terry Neill balanced and understandable as required by the UK Corporate Karen Thomson until February 2013 Governance Code the Code.
John McConnell from January 2014 Through its annual cycle of work, the Audit Committee concluded that sound risk management and internal control systems have been in operation during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of UBMs position at 31 December 2013, and has advised the Board accordingly.
In reaching this conclusion wehave considered the information and assurance provided by the internal audit team, the information provided by management and the external audit performed by Ernst & Young.
Composition The members of the Committee are considered to have relevant and recent financial experience.
The Committee met on three occasions during 2013 and met in February 2014 to consider the 31 December 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of attendance at meetings held during 2013 are set out on page 38.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of UBM, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of Tax, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditor are also invited to attend meetings.
In addition Jonathan Newcomb meets separately with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the Ernst & Young audit partner periodically throughout the year.
Jonathan Newcomb will be succeeded as Chairman by John McConnell on 1 March after five years in the role.
John McConnell was appointed to the Committee in January 2014.
Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are the oversight of UBMs financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and the work of internal audit and external audit.
The Committees main responsibilities, as set out in its terms of reference, are to review and advise the Board on: the interim and annual financial statements, the accounting policies applied and whether significant judgements are sound: the Annual Report and Accounts to assess that it is fair, balanced and understandable: the effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk management procedures, including the whistle-blowing policy: and the activities and findings of the internal audit function.
42 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition, the Committee is responsible for: Considered post acquisition reviews of recent acquisitions, in particular challenging whether any improvements to processes and reviewing and approving the scope of external audit work and other recommendations could be considered for future acquisitions.
considering the audit findings: Evaluated the effectiveness and scope of work undertaken by ensuring the external auditor is effective and independent: Internal Audit, particularly given the disposal of the Data Services monitoring compliance with the policy on non-audit services: and businesses, and reviewed the adequacy of UBMs Internal Audit making recommendations to the Board on external auditor resourcing and the focus of work for 2014. remuneration and reappointment.
Enquired as to any matters identified through the Groups whistleblowing policy.
The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated in the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code and can be External audit found on our website.
The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on Reviewed and agreed the scope and methodology of the work the activities the Committee has undertaken.
undertaken by UBMs external auditor, specifically the scope changes to the 2013 audit following the disposal of the Data Activities during the year Services businesses.
Set out below are the key matters the Committee considered during Met with the Ernst & Young audit partner without management the financial year and at the February 2014 Committee meeting in the present.
preparation of the 2013 financial statements, including details of how Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
any matters arising were addressed.
Agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 31 December 2013 financial Financial management and reporting statements.
Reviewed and made recommendations in respect of the 31December 2012 and 2013 full year and 30 June 2013 interim External auditor financial statements.
Ernst & Young has been UBMs external auditor since 2002 and was Considered new Code requirements and made recommendations reappointed following a tender process in 2009.
An annual review of tochanges in the Annual Report and Accounts process to Ernst & Youngs independence and audit process effectiveness is accommodate the new requirements.
performed each year before a recommendation is made to the Board Considered the presentation of restructuring and reorganisation to propose Ernst & Young for re-election at the AGM.
In assessing costs as exceptional items in the income statement.
Analysis Ernst & Youngs independence, the Committee received written prepared by management of the nature of restructuring and confirmation that in Ernst & Youngs professional judgement, Ernst & reorganisation costs and their classification was assessed by the Young is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and Committee and discussed with management and the external professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement auditor.
The disclosure in the financial statements was also partner and audit staff is not impaired.
evaluated and considered to be appropriate.
Reviewed the accounting for the disposal of the Data Services Audit and non-audit services businesses, UBM Channel and Built MS, in particular the calculation To help ensure the objectivity and independence of auditors, a formal and appropriate presentation of disposal gains and losses.
procedure is in place to manage the undertaking of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Non-audit services carried out in the year Areas of judgement routinely considered and challenged: comprised acquisition due diligence, compliance reporting, IFRS advice and VAT advice.
The assumptions and methodology applied in UBMs annual impairment review including the growth rates, discount rates and The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity consistency to budgets and three year plans.
and independence of Ernst & Young was not in any way impaired by The judgements applied to the recognition and utilisation of the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken by Ernst & provisions, in particular tax and restructuring, considering analysis Young for UBM during the year, by the level of non-audit fees charged, provided by management and the external auditors.
or by any other facts or circumstances.
Audit fees payable to Ernst & Revenue recognition policies, specifically where judgement is Young during the year were 1.2m 2012: 1.2m, and non-audit fees required as to the timing of the recognition of revenue.
An analysis of the fees is included in Note 3.3 to the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable, and that appropriate disclosures in Review of external auditors relation to key judgements and estimates have been included in the The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit financial statements refer to page 72.
In reaching this conclusion the process in the following ways: Committee considered reports and analysis prepared by management and constructively challenged the assumptions.
The Committee Review of the audit plan and execution against the plan.
alsoconsidered detailed reporting from, and discussions with the Consideration of the written and oral reporting provided to the Audit external auditor.
Committee by the external auditors.
Completion of a questionnaire by key stakeholders.
Risk Management and Internal Control Discussion with UBM management.
Reviewed and discussed UBMs top down and bottom up risk maps and challenged the appropriate classification and completeness of Tenure of external auditor risks included therein, as disclosed on pages 26 to 27.
The Committee noted the revisions to the Code introduced by the Considered reports on potential fraud instances during the period, Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 which are relevant for challenged what lessons can be learned and recommended actions the year ended 31 December 2013.
In particular, the Committee took to be taken.
note of the requirement to tender the audit at least every ten years and the transitional arrangements with respect to audit tendering to fit the Internal audit five-year partner rotation cycle.
The Committee has concluded that, Reviewed reports prepared by the Head of Internal Audit covering having tendered the audit in 2009 and with mandatory audit partner the financial and operational reviews undertaken during the year and rotation taking place in 2012, an audit tender is not required during 2014. reports on business continuity planning, cyber-security and post The Committees current intention, subject to the issuance of new UK acquisition reviews.
Discussed and challenged whether actions or and EU regulatory and legislative requirements, is to consider tendering changes to process were required as a result of the findings.
arrangements in anticipation of the next audit partner rotation.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
