Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Summary of the Boards key activities during 2013 Investor relations Shareholders are informed about the activities and progress of the February Approved the 2012 financial results and dividend.
business by the Annual Report and interim management statements, Approved sale of Delta.
Reviewed UBMs risk profile and by the publication of updated trading information at the Annual and risk management processes.
Financial and other information about the Company governance compliance.
Received presentation from is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other People and Culture Director on employee engagement.
April Discussion of acquisition opportunity.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major 2 meetings institutional shareholders through a scheduled programme of May Full day review and discussion of UBM strategy.
Review meetings, which are generally undertaken by the CEO and CFO.
Update on pension funding and strategy.
The Chairman also has a programme of ongoing engagement with June Further discussion on strategy.
Additionally, during the year she and the Remuneration July Approval of the interim financial results and interim Committee Chairman, Greg Lock, consulted with a number of our dividend.
Received presentations on CORE project and larger investors to seek their views on proposed changes to our from CEO of UBM Live.
More information about this can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 58.
September Received presentation from CEO of UBM Asia.
In-depth review and discussion on China.
Received presentation Analysts and brokers reports are made available to all Directors, and on health and safety.
Update on anti-bribery and they also receive feedback from investor meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by October Received presentations on UBM Commitments and shareholders if they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise community engagement.
December Considered the Groups budget for 2014.
Received presentation from CEO of PR Newswire.
Reviews of All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting UBMs tax and Treasury policies.
wherethey are able to ask questions of all the Directors, including theChairman, as well as the Chairmen of the Audit and .
Board performance and evaluation The Board evaluation in 201112 was conducted through an external Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the facilitator, Lintstock Associates, who provide an online corporate results are notified via a regulatory information service and displayed governance management system to UBM but have no other on the Companys website as soon as possible following the meeting.
The Chairman reviewed the results of All resolutions proposed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting were that process in the year following her appointment and it provided the passed with a majority in excess of 97% of votes cast.
foundation for the 2013 evaluation, enabling the Board to measure progress against the objectives identified.
The 2013 evaluation was Risk management and internal control conducted using a questionnaire completed by all Directors and the The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the responses were collated and analysed by Lintstock.
risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of UBMs Overall the Board felt that good progress had been made in a number system of internal controls.
The system is intended to enable the of areas, with considerable alignment of Directors views on key business to identify and manage the risks inherent in its business.
Accordingly, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The top priorities identified in the review included: A formal process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing continuing the improved time management of Board meetings: thekey financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the business.
introducing more discipline to the Boards review of past decisions: This risk mapping process, which was in place throughout 2013 and agreeing on strategy: continues in force, accords with the FRC Guidance on Internal Control further improving the oversight of risk: October 2005 and is reviewed annually by the Board.
As part of its strengthening top management: and strategy overview, the Board regularly considers specific risks facing increasing the Boards understanding of Asia, and of China in thebusiness.
particular which was done in September.
The process, which is described in more detail on page 24, aims Training and induction toidentify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of UBMs All Directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional businesses.
The risk maps and associated action plans are compiled development by attending seminars and briefings.
An induction by the respective management teams, reviewed centrally by UBM process is in place for all Directors on appointment.
This includes executive management, and considered by the Audit Committee, discussions with the Chairman and Executive Directors as well as which in turn reports to the Board.
one-to-one briefings and presentations from other Directors and seniormanagement on matters relating to UBMs businesses andprocedures.
Diversity We strongly support the principle of improving gender balance both at Board level and throughout our businesses.
Further information about our policy and our initiatives to improve gender diversity can be found on pages 41 and 20 respectively.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
