Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Nomination committee Dame Helen Alexander Chairman Chairman In preparing such specifications the Committee considers the skills and Dame Helen Alexander experience required to best support the business and recognises the importance of diversity.
As regards gender equality, the Committee Members supports the overall aims of the Davies Report entitled Women on Alan Gillespie Boards but for now does not feel that the setting of a measurable Pradeep Kar objective is appropriate in light of its policy of recruiting on merit.
In Greg Lock selecting search firms to assist with the recruitment of both Executive and John McConnell from January 2014 NonExecutive Directors, the Committee seeks to ensure that due regard Terry Neill is given to diversity and that candidate lists reflect this requirement.
Jonathan Newcomb During 2013 the Nomination Committee met formally on four occasions Karen Thomson and considered succession planning for both Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
The Committees activities during the year included Role of the Committee the following: The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the size Considering the process used to evaluate the performance of the and composition of the Board and recommending changes where Board and its Committees during 2013. appropriate.
All Non-Executive Directors are members of the Considering the re-election of Directors at the 2013 Annual General Committee.
Meeting and making recommendations to the Board.
Reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees: Appointments policy and process agreeing to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director, who will Appointments to the Board are made on merit, having regard to the also chair the Audit Committee.
MWM Consulting were engaged to requirements of the role.
The Committees first step is to agree a assist with this process: they provided no other services to UBM role and person specification which forms the basis for discussion during the year but have been retained in 2014 to conduct the with relevant search firms.
All members of the Committee then search for another NonExecutive Director.
A series of candidate provide input into further refinement of the specification through profiles were reviewed, and shortlisted candidates were interviewed individual discussion with the selected search firm.
by the Chairman and Committee members.
John McConnell was appointed on 27 January 2014 and will chair the Audit Committee from 1 March 2014.
Appointing a new CEO: in addition to the formal meetings referred to above, numerous other meetings took place as a sub-group of thefull Committee undertook the process of selecting a firm to undertake the search for David Levins successor.
Committee members interviewed several firms before appointing Egon Zehnder: they are an international search firm and have previously assisted in the recruitment of other senior executives to UBM.
A list of over 20 candidates was considered before selecting a shortlist.
The shortlisted candidates gave presentations to the Committee and Tim Cobbold was selected.
He will join UBM as CEO in May2014.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
