Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Public relations, investor relations and marketing communications: press release distribution the marketplace PR Newswires core proposition is non-financial press release PR Newswire enables organisations to distribute their news and distribution, particularly in the US and Canada.
marketing messages efficiently, helping clients to target their distribution and monitor the impact of their releases.
Its services are The main drivers of the press release distribution market as a whole driven by the need for professional communicators and marketers to are: the expanding range of digital channels and the increasingly have their communications discovered by their target audiences.
complex challenge of reaching targeted audiences: the attractions of digital media as software and data help organisations become more The take-up of these products depends on the digital sophistication of efficient: the growing importance of earned media and content: and the client base in different geographies.
In the long term, we believe the continuing internationalisation of business.
the trends we are seeing in the US and other developed economies will spread to other markets.
UBMs position PR Newswire has a leading market share in the US, when measured by the number of press releases see graph below.
Our position in the The pie chart below shows that almost 50% of PR Newswire core distribution market continues to be very strong, particularly in the revenues are generated through distribution in the US.
more valuable premium section of the market.
Business split % We encourage our customers to add multimedia content to their releases since it drives higher engagement and therefore increases likelihood of press pick-up and distribution across earned media networks.
PR Newswire US Other 10 Our second largest business is CNW, the leading press release 5. distribution service in Canada with market share in excess of 60%.
PR Newswires other revenues are generated from a variety of 4.
CNW 15 products and services across Continental Europe, Asia and Latin 3.
USVintage is a USregulatory disclosure service.
PR Newswire Asia & Latin America 5 The largest competitor to PR Newswire is Marketwired and the competitive landscape is very fragmented.
1 Premium and Non-premium wire volumes 900 Wire PRN iReach volume PRWeb 800 '000s GlobeNewswire 700 Marketwired Business Wire 600 PR Newswire 500 400 300 200 Notes: 1 Based on Factiva data and management estimates.
