GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2 4 1 3 5 6 7 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Effective governance %e majority of our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board to assist ABG in achieving its strategic goals.
Kelvin Dushnisky, age 50 Peter Tomsett, age 56 Andre Falzon, age 59 Chairman of the Board Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and Experience: Mr Dushnisky is the Skills and Experience: Mr Falzon is an Chairman of the Board.
He is Senior Executive independent Non-Executive Director of ABG.
He is Skills and Experience: Mr Tomsett, is ABGs Vice President of Barrick and has more than a senior !financial executive with over 25 years of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
25 years of experience in broad-ranging roles !financial and management experience within the Mr Tomsett has a wide range of technical, across the mining industry.
Mr Dushnisky joined mining industry, including a period as Vice operational and senior management experience in Barrick in April 2002 and has global responsibility President and Controller at Barrick between 1994 the mining industry.
He spent 20 years with Placer for the Government Relations, Permitting and and 2006.
He is a Director of Detour Gold Dome Inc. in a number of senior roles, culminating Approvals, Corporate Responsibility and Corporation and was previously a director and in serving as President and Chief Executive Of!cer Communications functions.
Prior to joining Barrick, audit committee chair of a number of publicly until its acquisition in 2006.
He has been a Mr Dushnisky was a Managing Director at listed gold mining companies.
He holds a Director of the Minerals Council of Australia, the Altara Securities Inc. and has also served as Bachelor of Commerce Degree from the University World Gold Council and the International Council Vice President of Sutton Resources Limited and of Toronto, Canada and is a CGA Canada and a for Mining & Metals.
Mr Tomsett has considerable Vice Chair, General Counsel and a founding CPA, CA Canada.
board-level experience in the resources sector.
Director of EuroZinc Mining Corporation.
He served as Non-Executive Chairman of Equinox Mr Dushnisky holds a BSc Hon.
degree from the David Hodgson, age 66 Minerals until its acquisition in 2011.
He is University of Manitoba and MSc and JD degrees currently Non-Executive Chairman of Silver Independent Non-Executive Director from the University of British Columbia.
He Standard Resources Inc and he is also a Skills and Experience: Mr Hodgson is an represents Barrick, along with its CEO, at the Non-Executive Director of North American independent Non-Executive Director of ABG.
He World Gold Council and the International Council Energy Partners Inc and Talisman Energy Inc. was previously employed by the Anglo American on Mining and Metals ICMM.
Mr Dushnisky and fide Beers group of companies for over 30 years also serves on the boards of the Mining Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, age 71 and from November 2001 through to his retirement Association of Canada, the Institute of the Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2005, he served as the Chief Operating Americas, the Canadian Council of the Americas, Of!cer of AngloGold Ashanti.
He has also held a Skills and Experience: Ambassador Mwapachu is the Canadian Chamber of Commerce and is a number of previous non-executive public company an independent Non-Executive Director of ABG.
member of the Law Society of British Columbia directorships at Auryx Gold Mines, Montero Mining, Ambassador Mwapachu has held a number of and the Canadian Bar Association.
Moto Gold Mines Limited, Uranium One Inc and senior positions in both the public and private Goliath Gold Mining Limited.
Mr Hodgson holds a sector of Tanzania and was appointed as Brad Gordon, age 51 BSc in Civil Engineering from the University of Tanzanias Ambassador to France from 2002 Chief Executive Of!cer Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa, a BSc to 2006.
He was the founding Secretary General Skills and Experience: Mr Gordon was appointed Mining Honours from the Royal School of Mines in of the Chamber of Commerce, Industry and as ABGs Chief Executive Of!cer in August 2013.
London, and a BComm majors in Economics and Agriculture and has served as Chairman of He was previously the CEO of Intrepid Mines, a Business Economics from UNISA in South Africa.
the Confederation of Tanzania Industries and Canadian and Australian listed precious metals He also attended an Advanced Management Chairman of the East African Business Council.
exploration and development company with Program at Harvard University in the USA.
He has played a leading role in the regional primary operations in Indonesia.
Prior to his time integration of East Africa, holding the position of at Intrepid, Mr Gordon was the CEO of Emperor Michael Kenyon, age 64 Secretary General of the East African Community Mines, the Australasian subsidiary of DRDGold prior to his appointment to the Board and currently Independent Non-Executive Director before it merged with Intrepid.
Before that, he holds the position of Global President of the Skills and Experience: Mr Kenyon is an held a series of progressively senior positions Society for International Development.
independent Non-Executive Director of ABG.
Mr Gordon has a proven ability Ambassador Mwapachu holds a Bachelor of Laws Mr Kenyon has more than 35 years of experience to deliver the maximum potential from the Degree with Honours from the University of East in the mining industry and is a geologist by operations he has managed, from reducing costs Africa, a postgraduate Degree in International Law training.
He is Executive Chairman of the Board and increasing production to achieving operational from the Indian Academy, Doctorates in Literature of Directors at Detour Gold Corporation.
He has ef!ciencies and extending mine lives.
Mr Gordon Honoris Causa from the University of Dar es previously been Chairman of the Board of holds a Mining Engineering degree from the Salaam, and Political Sciences Honoris Causa Directors of Troon Ventures Ltd, President and Western Australia School of Mines and an from the National University of Rwanda.
Chief Executive Of!cer at both Canico Resource Executive MBA from INSEAD, France.
Corp and Sutton Resources Ltd, and a Director of Cumberland Resources Ltd.
He holds a MSc Geology from the University of Alberta in Canada.
He was also the recipient of the 2005 Developer of the Year award from the Prospector and Developers Association of Canada in recognition of his accomplishments.
com GOVERNANCE Mr Lucas was Finance Director at National Grid plc Graham Clow, age 63 Rick McCreary, age 51 from 2002 to 2010 and prior to this he worked for Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 11 years in progressively more senior positions Skills and Experience: Mr Clow is an independent Skills and Experience: Mr McCreary is a at Royal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG Group Non-Executive Director of ABG.
Mr Clow is Non-Executive Director of ABG and Senior Vice formerly British Gas.
He is currently a Noncurrently Chairman and Principal Mining Engineer President, Corporate Development of Barrick.
Executive Director of Tullow Oil plc, Transocean Ltd of RPA Inc.
He is a senior mining executive with He joined Barrick in April 2011 and has overall and Essar Energy plc.
From 2004 until 2011 he 40 years experience in all aspects of responsibility for Barricks global Corporate was a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group acquisitions, exploration, feasibility, !finance, Development activities, including Corporate plc.
Mr Lucas holds a BA in Geology from development, construction, operations, and Development, Evaluations and Special Projects.
Prior to joining RPA, he spent more than Prior to joining Barrick, Mr McCreary worked in 20 years in senior executive and operating mining investment banking for over 14 years Rachel English, age 51 positions with publicly listed mining companies culminating as Head of CIBC World Markets Independent Non-Executive Director and is currently Non-Executive Director of Global Mining investment banking group.
Prior to Skills and Experience: Ms English is an Dominion Diamond Corporation.
Mr Clow is a his career in mining investment banking, he independent Non-Executive Director of ABG.
former Chairman of the Metal Mining Division of worked in the Noranda Falconbridge organisation Ms English is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy, and for eight years in various areas, including metals Accountants and previously held senior positions Petroleum CIM, and was a Member of the marketing, geophysics, geological engineering and in BG Group and Royal Dutch Shell, with Committee on Ore Reserve fide!nitions that technology development.
Mr McCreary holds an responsibilities spanning !finance, corporate established the requirements for Canadian MBA in Finance and Strategy from McGill strategy, mergers and acquisitions, and business Regulatory Standard NI43-101 for mining University, and an MSc and BScEng Hons in development.
Ms English is a Non-Executive companies.
He is also a Fellow of CIM and has Geological Engineering from Queens University.
Director of Kuwait Energy plc and the Global been awarded the Metal Mining Award for Carbon Capture and Storage Institute and was contributions to the industry.
Stephen Galbraith, age 42 previously a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Petropavlovsk plc until 2013.
She is also a Steve Lucas, age 59 Skills and Experience: Mr Galbraith is a Nonmember of the Audit Committee of the UKs Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director of ABG.
He has been employed Department for International Development Skills and Experience: Mr Lucas is an independent by Barrick since August 2000 in treasury and and is a Non-Executive Director of Helios Social Non-Executive Director of ABG.
Mr Lucas is a !finance functions, and is currently Managing Enterprise, which she co-founded to develop Chartered Accountant with executive experience Director of Barrick International Barbados renewable energy access projects in rural in the extractives sector, particularly oil and gas, Corporation.
Mr Galbraith previously held the role sub-Saharan Africa.
Ms English holds an MA and the power sector.
He has worked of Audit Manager for .
in Politics, Philosophy & Economics from internationally, including Tanzania, and has He holds a BA in Accountancy from Strathclyde Oxford University.
expertise in infrastructure !finance and treasury.
University, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is a Chartered Financial Analyst Charterholder.
BOARD COMPOSITION As at 31 December 2013, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, one Executive Director and ten Non-Executive Directors, of whom eight were independent.
Skills and experience Diversity Boards balance We review Board composition regularly to Board appointments are made on a merit The Board believes that its current composition ensure the range and breadth of skills provided basis and measured against objective criteria.
and its size is appropriate for the requirements as a result of Director appointments remains Generally, we strive to attract a broad mix of of the Companys business and that the appropriate for our business.
individuals in order to create a diverse workgroup current balance between Executive and to support ABGs culture.
It is our policy to hire Non-Executive, in particular the balance the best candidates for all positions at all levels, between independent and non-independent irrespective of gender, including candidates for Directors, is appropriate for the Company for Board appointments.
That said, during the year, the time being.
we were pleased to appoint Rachel English to the Board, being ABGs !first female Director.
Board skills Board composition Board independence Geology Executive Non-independent Independent Engineering Non-executive 1 2 Financial 3 4 African and regional affairs 3 8 4 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
