CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board changes during 2013 in the development and determination of the Companys strategy and As previously noted, Mr Tomsett, Mr Clow, Ms English and Mr Lucas overall commercial objectives.
ABGs Chief Executive Of!cer is primarily were appointed during the year as additional independent Non-Executive responsible for all executive management matters affecting ABG and is Directors, along with Mr Gordon as the Companys new CEO and sole principally responsible for running the Companys business.
In addition, and as noted in the 2012 Annual Report, of executive management report directly to him.
Mr Jennings, the Companys former CFO, and Mr Pannell, the Companys former Acting Chairman, decided not to stand for re-election at the 2013 Senior Independent Director AGM in order to pursue other interests, and therefore left the Company As noted below, Mr Tomsett assumed the position of Senior Independent in April 2013.
Mr Hawkins, the Companys former CEO, also left the Director SID in April 2013 in accordance with UK Corporate Company in August 2013.
The responsibilities and duties of the SID are determined in accordance with the requirements of the UK Retirement and re-election Corporate Governance Code.
In particular the SID is required to: Directors appointed by the Board since the 2013 AGM are required to act as a sounding board for the Chairman: offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM act as an intermediary for other directors, when necessary: under the Companys Articles of Association and we are mindful of ensure that an annual appraisal of the Chairman is conducted by the requirements for annual re-election under the UK Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman present: Code.
Save for David Hodgson, who has recently decided to step down from the Board, all remaining Directors will offer themselves for be available to shareholders for discussion purposes, in cases where re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board determines that all contact between such shareholders and the Chairman and or CEO of these Directors are eligible for re-election.
has been ineffective or is otherwise inappropriate.
Board leadership Board effectiveness Chairman and Chief Executive Of!cer Board meetings and attendance In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Of!cer and Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at Chairman, and their related responsibilities, are separated.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken of responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are and the speci!cations as regards each role are fide!ned in accordance determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of votes, with this.
ABGs Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership of ABGs Articles of Association do not provide the Chairman with a the Board and ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part second or casting vote.
ABG BUSINESS MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ABG ABGs Business Management Framework forms an COMPLIANCE integral part of our global compliance programme.
REQUIREMENT It sets out the key corporate policies, procedures, Values & Code Mandatory standards and practices that apply to the ABG Group of Conduct and its business for the management of economic, social, political, environmental, legal and governance Business factors affecting our operations.
Mandatory Management Framework All members of the ABG Group, our material Group Policies, operations, support functions, and every ABG Director, Mandatory Procedures of!cer and employee are required to comply with the & Standards ABG Business Management Framework and all other Departments guidance and standards that apply to their respective Mine Site Rules Mandatory roles and positions.
Speci!c obligations also extend & Requirements Dictated in accordance to ABG contractors, other associated parties and with stated functional and members of ABG supply chains.
mine site requirements Group Policy Guidelines For use in understanding and implementing compliance obligations 44 www.
com GOVERNANCE All Directors are required to take decisions objectively and in the best Leadership Team and to whatever further information they need to interests of the Company.
perform their duties and to satisfy their responsibilities.
ABGs independent Non-Executive Directors and committee chairmen meet As part of their duties as Directors, ABGs Non-Executive Directors with members of the Senior Leadership Team to receive more in-depth are expected to apply independent judgement to contribute to issues brie!ngs on Board and committee matters whenever required or of strategy and performance and to scrutinise the performance requested.
In addition, all Directors continue to have free access to of management.
visit operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such Board training and development needs are reviewed on an ongoing other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
Ordinarily, training standards and requirements form part of total of eight times in 2013.
Five meetings were held in person at the Board evaluation criteria.
Companys London of!ces, and three meetings were held by teleconference.
Details of individual attendance are provided below.
Directors may take independent professional advice, as necessary, at Meetings included a formal strategy review with senior management.
ABGs expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, each From time to time, the Board schedules meetings so as to allow for a Board committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at meeting to be held in Tanzania, if appropriate, in order to provide for ABGs expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the committee in further access to the wider ABG workforce.
the performance of its functions.
Board brie!ngs and development The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports outlining all material operational, !financial and strategic developments.
These ensure that Board members remain properly briefed on the performance and !financial position of the ABG Group.
Board and committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow Directors to be briefed in advance of discussions.
All Board meetings include a quarterly business and !financial review to ensure that, in addition to speci!c scheduled matters and any other business, core operational matters are reviewed on a continuous basis.
In addition to scheduled Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Senior Board and committee attendance Nomination and Board Audit Compensation Governance EHS&S Technical meetings committee committee committee committee committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Current directors Kelvin Dushnisky 8 8 5 5 3 3 1 2 Brad Gordon 3 3 Peter Tomsett 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 1 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu 8 8 3 3 4 4 Andre Falzon 8 8 5 5 4 4 David Hodgson 7 8 1 2 4 4 2 2 Michael Kenyon 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 Graham Clow 5 5 2 2 2 2 Steve Lucas 1 1 1 1 Rachel English 2 2 1 1 Rick McCreary 7 8 2 2 2 2 Stephen Galbraith 8 8 Former directors Derek Pannell 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 2 Greg Hawkins 4 4 Kevin Jennings 3 3 Appointed during the year Resigned retired during the year.
Appointment and resignation dates are provided on page 84.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Summary of the Boards work in 2013 Relationship with shareholders The Board focused on the following areas in 2013: Dialogue with the investment community ABG has a designated investor relations team which acts as the primary Reviewing and monitoring the implementation of the point of contact with the investment community and is responsible for Operational Review maintaining ABGs ongoing relations with investors and shareholders.
Operational and !financial performance reviews Generally, ABG aims to meet with investors and analysts at least twice a Corporate governance structures and compliance review year to discuss Group performance and respond to queries.
ABG also conducts periodic telephone calls and meetings with the investment Capital project and exploration project reviews community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences Corporate organisational structure review to meet with current and prospective investors.
In addition to its annual Mine planning reviews and half-year reports, ABG publishes quarterly reports to the market, which provide further information on production and !financial results, As part of strategy and growth reviews, the Board commenced a further and updates on its business and operations.
ABGs investor relations evaluation process of all of the Companys growth projects to ensure a team also arrange ABG operational site tours for members of the prioritisation of projects that will drive pro!table returns and production analyst community, as and when appropriate.
As regards asset optimisation and cost control reviews, the Board continued to monitor and review management plans as regards Majority shareholder life of mine planning for all of ABGs operations.
All of the above will Barrick is the Group majority shareholder, holding approximately 74% of continue to be focus areas in 2014 in addition to providing oversight ABG.
ABGs relationship with Barrick is governed by the terms of a to managements plans for the implementation of further cost and Relationship Agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that capital discipline controls and matters relevant to the ongoing ABG is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick organisational restructuring.
Group and that transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Internal control Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as ABG is listed on the The Board is responsible for the ABG Groups system of internal control London Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls at least 15% of and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with this ABGs issued share capital or voting rights.
responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and systems for identifying, evaluating and managing signi!cant risks that the Group The Relationship Agreement provides Barrick with certain Director faces.
ABGs system of internal controls and risk management takes into appointment rights in line with a sliding scale, structured as follows: account the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Systems and Controls published by the Financial Reporting Barrick Percentage Shareholding Barrick Director Appointment Rights Council in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is 40% or more The higher of three Non-Executive designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Directors and the maximum that may ABGs business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not beappointed under the UK Corporate absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Governance Code 25% up to 40% The higher of two Non-Executive The Board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its Directors and one less than the review of management reports and assessments, and on the quarterly maximum number of Non-Executive reports it receives on the status of ABGs internal control environment.
Directors that may be appointed under This is supported by the risk pro!le reviews that ABGs internal audit the UK Corporate Governance Code function carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most signi!cant risks and events that could affect the Companys operations, 15% up to 25% The higher of one Non-Executive Director !nancials and performance.
Where necessary, the Board is assisted by and two less than the maximum number its committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly of  the Audit committee, which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and !financial risk management systems.
In addition to Director appointment rights, and subject to certain An overview of the governance structure used for ABGs approach to risk exceptions, as part of the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Barrick management and the processes and procedures used in the context has undertaken that members of the Barrick Group will not carry on the of risk management is provided as part of the Risk management review exploration of gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an of this Annual Report.
asset purchase or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in Africa that competes with ABG without !first giving ABG the In compliance with its obligations, the Board conducted an annual option to exercise certain rights of !first refusal for so long as Barrick assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and holds 30% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of ABG.
internal control systems for the reporting period.
The review covered all ABG has given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick material controls, including !financial, operational and compliance in this regard.
In conjunction with ABGs internal audit function and members of the Senior Leadership Team, the Board conducted a speci!c assessment of internal controls, which considered all signi!cant aspects of internal control for the reporting period.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be material.
Therefore a con!rmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
com GOVERNANCE AGM Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further ABGs 2014 AGM will be held on 24 April 2014 at 2.00 pm UK time.
action in relation to such matter.
"The business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Save for the matters set out above, no other con""icts of interest were Companies Act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the disclosed to the Board during the reporting period."
The Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Compensation, EHS&S and Nomination and Governance Corporate governance compliance committees will be available to answer questions put to them by For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium listing on shareholders at the meeting.
The AGM Notice is included in the the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, ABG is required to documentation that has been provided with this Annual Report and make certain statements regarding the way it is governed, as required is also available on the Companys website.
In accordance with best by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accordingly, this report explains practice, the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 business how ABG has applied and complied with the Main Principles of the UK days prior to the date of the meeting.
"Con""icts of interest Generally, ABG seeks to apply the provisions of the UK Corporate Mr Dushnisky, Mr Galbraith and Mr McCreary are nominee Directors Governance Code wherever possible and for the reporting year it is the appointed by Barrick."
"These individuals hold a number of crossBoards view that ABG has applied and complied with the Main Principles directorships with members of the Barrick Group, which give rise to of the UK Corporate Governance Code and its detailed principles, save situations in which these Directors could have a direct or indirect that the position of SID was vacant until Mr Tomsetts assumption of this interest that con""icts, or possibly may con""ict, with those of ABG."
In role in April 2013, Mr Dushnisky was not independent on appointment addition, as a result of their employment within the Barrick Group, these as Chairman and that an external search consultancy was not used in individuals also hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan connection with this appointment.
Given Mr Dushniskys experience and other employee incentive plans.
within the mining sector, his skill set and his familiarity with the operating and geographical environment in which the Companys assets Certain other members of ABGs senior management team hold are located, the Board believes his appointment to be in the best interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan as a result of prior interests of the Company and, furthermore, did not view the need to use employment within the Barrick Group.
These interests were acquired any external search consultant in the circumstances.
In addition, the prior to joining ABG and are not deemed to be material interests.
balance of independent and non-independent Directors required under the UK Corporate Governance Code applies from April 2013 onwards, The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to avoid situations where following the appointment of Mr Tomsett and Mr Clow.
"they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that con""icts, or may possibly con""ict, with Company interests."
"However, the Act does allow Lastly, the latest edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code requires Directors of public companies to authorise con""icts and potential that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment con""icts of interest where a companys articles of association contain a of ABGs position and prospects in its external reporting."
The 2013 provision to that effect.
ABGs Articles of Association contain such Annual Report and Accounts is the !first Annual Report and Accounts provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, prepared under this obligation.
"Accordingly, the Directors were the con""icts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board."
"responsible for its preparation and approval and consider the Annual The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or Report and Accounts for 2013, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced potential con""ict of interest is an ongoing process."
Directors are and understandable and believe that this provides the information required to notify the Company of any material changes in positions or necessary for shareholders to assess the ABGs performance, business situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or ABGs external auditors have reviewed those parts of this statement, actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such which they are required to review under the Listing Rules of the transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises as United Kingdom Listing Authority.
In addition to compliance with the to whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting or UK Corporate Governance Code, as part of commitments given in being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual connection with ABGs secondary listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock transaction, the matter is referred to the Chairman, whose !findings are Exchange, the Board has undertaken to comply with the Corporate !final and conclusive.
"In the context of questions relating to any such Governance Guidelines issued by the Tanzanian Capital Markets and con""ict of the Chairman, the question may ultimately be decided by a Securities Authority to the extent that these requirements are equivalent resolution of the other Directors."
to applicable UK corporate governance standards.
"In the case of any con""ict between the two, the requirements of the UK Corporate The Board reviews con""icts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains Governance Code prevail."
"a record of all declared con""icts."
"Speci!cally as regards nominee Directors appointed by Barrick, the Relationship Agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement arises directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member of the ABG Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of Directors excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a con""ict of interest between ABG and any Director appointed by Barrick, any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Performance evaluation The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its committees was conducted under the guidance of the Company Secretary, by way of anonymous questionnaires."
The questionnaire focused on a range of key topics, the !findings of which will be used to help formulate key targets and actions for 2014.
BOARD EVALUATION FOCUS COMMITTEE EVALUATION FOCUS Establishment and role Leadership Roles and responsibilities Leadership Compensation, appointments, Strategic aims and objectives Composition, appointments, Procedures and internal controls skills, experience and training skills, experience and training Risk management Attendance at meetings, Attendance at meetings, Procedures and internal controls contribution, internal contribution, internal relationships Communication with relationships shareholders and others ASSESSMENT FOR THE BOARD ASSESSMENT FOR THE COMMITTEES Board evaluation results were used to produce a performance The evaluation results were used to produce a performance report report for presentation to the Board, for purposes of discussion for discussion and debate, in order to agree work plans and and debate, in order to agree work plans and actions for 2014 actions for 2014 KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2014 KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2014 Progression of strategic aims and development of further Assessment of terms of reference, effectiveness of members strategic goals and objectives skills, experience and quali!cations Progression of organisational restructuring Work plans and actions for 2014 individually set by each committee Further enhancement of cost and capital discipline controls Review of requirements for ABGs compliance, risk and governance environment 48 www.
