52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement Board matters Throughout the financial year ended 31 December At every Board meeting, standing agenda items include: 2013, the Board considers that it and the Group have complied with the provisions set out in the The Chief Executives Report which covers the Groups operational performance, particular September 2012 edition of the UK Corporate performance issues in each division, the overall outlook for the Group and health and safety Governance Code the Code.
The Code is performance issued by the Financial Reporting Council and is The Group Finance Directors Report which covers financial forecasts for the half and full year, publicly available on their website review of cash performance to date and future forecasts, review of banking covenants, review www.
This corporate governance of analysts views of the Group, major shareholdings and major share buyers and sellers section of the Annual Report & Accounts describes how the Board has applied the main Major project reports principles of the Code.
Group Marketing Directors report Role of the Board Human Resources report The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and direction in delivering the key Review of current acquisition activity and approval of any offers for proposed acquisitions corporate objective of adding long-term Business presentation by a Managing Director President shareholder value, as measured by market capitalisation and the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, more rapidly than other companies Other important topics which are covered on a routine basis during the year are: to outperform the market.
The Executive Approval of annual and interim financial statements and accompanying regulatory announcements Directors set the Group strategy which is subject to challenge before final agreement by the full Review and approval of the annual budget Board.
The Board also ensures that adequate Approval of the Groups dividend policy, the payment of the interim dividend and the controls are in place, including calibrating risk recommendation of the final dividend appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras risk management processes.
The Board receives Receiving reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit regular compliance reports from the Groups Committee in respect of: the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal divisions and businesses.
The Board requires the control statement: the adoption of the going concern statement: impairment and Groups businesses to behave ethically and reappointment of the Auditors and the subsequent agreement to such recommendations properly at all times and engenders a culture of Review and approval of major capital investment projects and bids fairness to customers, suppliers and employees.
It is the function of the Groups management, A full day Board meeting devoted wholly to the review of the five-year strategic plan, with through the Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma and presentations given by the Executive Team and discussions held on significant matters identified his Executive Team, to run the operations of the in the proposed plan Group.
The members of the Executive Team are listed on page 77.
Six-monthly review of compliance reports prepared by Divisional Managing Directors Presidents The Board is responsible for major investment Annual reviews of health & safety and environmental reports summarising the position across decisions such as acquisitions of companies, the all Ultra businesses allocation of the Groups R&D expenditure, Approval of any changes to the rules of operation of the Groups employee share plans major new projects and approval of large customer contracts.
To this end, in addition to Review of the risk register the ten scheduled Board meetings, the Board Post acquisition reviews held five unscheduled Board meetings in the year.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Tax planning major projects being undertaken by the Board evaluation operating businesses.
A summary of some of the Boards key Consideration of Non-Executive Directors fees responsibilities and activities is set out opposite Review of the terms of reference of the main Board and the Board Committees and the full range of Board responsibilities are detailed in the document entitled Matters Corporate governance updates reserved for the Board which is available from the Investors section of the Group website.
Other significant matters addressed by the Board in 2013 included: Consideration and agreement of the Pension Scheme Revaluation and the Deficit Reduction Plan for the Ultra Electronics Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Structure, policies and procedures to address cyber-security risk and cyber-security offerings Review of progress made across the Group on mandatory carbon reporting Consideration and update of the Groups share dealing code Setting out clearly defined and written roles for the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53 Corporate Governance Report continued Ultras strategic framework Board meetings Comprehensive briefing papers are circulated to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting to enable an informed debate to take place.
Acquisition opportunities are presented to the Board by the appropriate Divisional Managing Director President.
This enables a full discussion of the merits and risks of any acquisition proposal to take place at an early stage.
Other significant matters that require formal Board approval which are routinely presented by the appropriate business include major bids, updates on key strategic initiatives and major capital and private venture development expenditure proposals.
The scheduled Board meetings are rotated around the sites of the operating businesses.
During 2013, the Board visited six operating businesses in the UK.
In addition, the Board held one meeting at a North American business, following a tour by the Non-Executive Directors of some of the North American operations.
During Board meetings at Ultras operating Product demonstrations and site tours take place.
This units, presentations detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future gives the Non-Executive Directors a good practical insight forecasts are given by the senior managers of into operating businesses.
The Non-Executive Directors the host business.
Product demonstrations and also conduct individual visits to businesses site tours also take place.
This gives the NonExecutive Directors a good practical insight into the operating businesses.
The Non-Executive Directors also conduct individual visits to in line with the areas of focus from the 2012 unexpected commitments, they received and businesses.
The Directors meet frequently with Board evaluation see page 55, the read papers for consideration at the meeting, the Executive Team members who make Non-Executive Directors met with the Divisional relayed their comments in advance and, where presentations to the Board on any significant Managing Directors Presidents on an additional necessary, followed up with the Chairman on investment proposals, including proposed two occasions in the year.
acquisitions, and to give progress reports on any particular strategic initiatives which the Board Meeting attendance 2013 may have requested.
The Executive Team as a The table below shows attendance by Directors whole meets the Board annually to present the at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the proposed Strategic Plan for the next five years.
extent Directors were unable to attend This is then debated with the Directors, changes meetings, because unscheduled meetings were agreed and a final plan is approved.
In addition, called at short notice or because of prior or Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Actual inclusive of unscheduled Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Board meetings possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman Douglas Caster 15 15 4 4 5 7 1 1 Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma 15 15 4 4 6 7 1 1 Executive Directors 1 Mark Anderson 12 15 4 4 - - - - 2 Paul Dean 4 4 2 2 - - - - 3 Mary Waldner 7 7 2 2 - - - - Non-Executive Directors 4 Chris Bailey 13 15 4 4 7 7 1 1 Martin Broadhurst 15 15 4 4 7 7 1 1 Sir Robert Walmsley 15 15 4 4 7 7 1 1 1 Mark Anderson was unable to attend the Board meetings in October and November and an unscheduled Board meeting in November 2013 2 Paul Dean resigned on 31 March 2013 3 Mary Waldner was appointed on 1 July 2013 4 Chris Bailey was unable to attend unscheduled Board meetings in June and November 2013 By invitation 6.
Introduction 54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board composition Engineering is a sector of relatively low female participation, especially in senior management Current Board of Directors positions.
This poses a challenge for the Group in terms of achieving gender diversity with the appropriate knowledge and understanding of the risks associated with the Groups technologies and offerings.
Nevertheless, Ultra will continue in its diversity aware best person for the role approach to recruiting.
A summary of the gender split across the Board, Executive Team and the Group as a whole is set out on page 44.
Board-tenure and independence Chairman 1 Experience on Tenure years Independence other plc boards Executive Directors 3 Chairman Non-Executive Directors 3 Douglas Caster 3 No No Non-Executive Directors In 2013, Paul Dean, the Group Finance Director Chris Bailey 9 Yes Yes resigned and was replaced by Mary Waldner.
Martin Broadhurst 1.5 Yes No Throughout 2013, the Board structure was in Sir Robert Walmsley 5 Yes Yes line with the Code.
Executive Directors Diversity Rakesh Sharma 3 No No Ultra continues to follow its overriding policy Mary Waldner 0.5 No No of appointing the best person for a particular Mark Anderson 2 No No role, regardless of sex, race, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or beliefs.
The Board contends that a board composed of the right balance of skills, experience and diversity of views is best placed Board skills and experience to support a company in its strategic objectives.
The Board has a balance of skills, understanding, The Board has considered in detail the perspectives and experience relevant to the requirements of the Code regarding gender 6 7 Groups activities.
In selecting the best person for a possesses a deep understanding of the Groups role, the Board gives active consideration to 6 core defence, security, transport and energy the benefits of diversity, including gender 7 markets.
This is complemented by its members diversity.
However, setting diversity target experience and expertise in other industries and aspirations, especially by specific dates, can other disciplines including procurement, 5 distort the selection process and conflict with accountancy, financial management and 4 its preferred, diversity-aware best person for growing international businesses.
knowledge of best practice in other companies 6 and other industries, and the Board seeks to 6 Board gender Split adopt new methodologies when these are seen to be in the best interests of the Group.
This 4 5 range of skills and experience informs the 6 Boards decision-making and enables it to provide effective leadership.
The particular skills and experience that each Number of Directors with skills Director brings to the Board are described in and experience described their biographical details on pages 50 and 51 Defence and Security and are summarised opposite.
Transport The Group has a policy whereby Executive Directors, but not the Chief Executive, may Energy Male 6 accept one appointment as a non-executive Engineering director in another listed company.
Executive Female 1 Production Directors are permitted to retain any fees from Project management such external appointments.
Finance Procurement Marketing Management Cross border trade Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55 Corporate Governance Report continued Ultras strategic framework Board roles There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director, such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
This division of responsibilities, which is in writing, has been agreed by the Board and is summarized in the table below.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of the Senior Independent Director Douglas Caster is responsible for: Rakesh Sharma is responsible for: Chris Bailey is responsible for: Effective running of the Board Running the Groups business and operations Being available to shareholders if they have with the aid of the Executive Team concerns which contact through the normal Ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or other and constructive part in the development and Proposing and developing the Groups strategy Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for determination of the Groups strategy and and overall commercial objectives which such contact is inappropriate overall commercial objectives Ensuring, with the Executive Team, the Attending meetings with major shareholders The Boards decision making process implementation of the decisions of the Board and financial analysts to obtain a balanced and its Committees understanding of their issues and concerns Setting the agenda for the Board, taking into account the important issues facing the Providing input to the Boards agenda Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors at Group.
All Directors are able to add items to from himself and other members of the least once a year to appraise the Chairmans Board agendas Executive Team performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate Ensuring the Board receives accurate, timely and Ensuring the Executive Team give appropriate clear information priority to providing reports to the Board which Chairing the Nominations Committee and, contain accurate, timely and clear information in that role, initiating change and succession Ensuring effective communication between the planning in Board appointments to retain Company and its shareholders Leading the communication programme and build an effective and complementary with shareholders Ensuring the performance of the Board, its Board, and to facilitate the appointment of Committees and individual Directors is formally effective and suitable members and Chairmen and rigorously evaluated Ensuring that performance reviews are carried of Board Committees.
The Board as a whole out at least once a year for each of the determines the chairmanship and membership Executive Directors, providing input to the wider of Board Committees Board evaluation process Non-Executive Directors Board appointments the process management teams to gain a feel for the Groups Chris Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin In making appointments to the Board, the style and culture.
Mary Waldner joined Ultra as Broadhurst are the Groups independent NonBoard, through the Nominations Committee, is Group Finance Director on 1 July 2013.
The Board considers them to careful to identify the skills, knowledge and to receiving a full induction pack, she undertook be independent.
In assessing independence, the experience needed for each role and to an induction program consisting of visits to various Board considers that they are independent of complement the existing skills mix provided by businesses across the Group and meeting with the management and free from business and other other Board members.
To ensure selection from management teams of these businesses.
relationships which could interfere with the the widest possible talent pool, it is Ultras The Company Secretary & General Counsel exercise of independent judgment now and in normal practice to engage the services of annually presents to the Board on corporate the future.
The Board believes that any independent, external search consultants in governance.
The Board is briefed on significant shareholdings of the Chairman and Nonrecruiting new Directors.
changes in the law or governance codes Executive Directors serve to align their interests The recruitment process for the appointment of affecting their duties as Directors.
Experts with those of all shareholders.
The Non-Executive Mary Waldner as Group Finance Director was present to the Board on specialist areas, such as Directors have wide experience of working in a set out in the 2012 Annual Report.
Specific training is arranged for variety of different government and industry Directors as and when appropriate.
The Directors roles with exposure to international business.
Directors induction and training are able to call on independent professional All new appointments to the Board receive a The key role of the Non-Executive Directors, advice at anytime should this be necessary in comprehensive induction to the Group.
This along with the Chairman, is to provide an order for them to carry out their duties.
covers its corporate structure, the products and appropriate level of challenge and constructive services of the Groups businesses, the key Board evaluation criticism to the plans of the Executive Directors.
markets in which the businesses operate and the The Chairman commissions  The Non-Executive Directors met without the key risks which the Group faces, together with annual Board evaluations.
Board evaluations run Chairman or Executive Directors being present the actions and plans which are in place to on a two year cycle.
One year, the effectiveness on several occasions during the year to discuss mitigate against these.
On appointment, each of the Board and its Committees is evaluated.
aspects relating to the Board and the Group and Director receives a full induction pack explaining The next year, individual Directors performance appropriate feedback was given.
Ultras governance framework, policies and is evaluated.
On behalf of the Group, the Non-Executive procedures and a briefing from the Company Following an evaluation of the effectiveness Directors are active in developing relationships at Secretary & General Counsel on the legal, of the Board and its Committees in 2012, the a senior level with Ultras key suppliers, customers governance and control framework.
2012 Annual Report and Accounts set out the and business partners.
Programmes of visits to Group businesses are areas of focus going forward.
An update on Insurance arranged.
It is important for these to encompass progress made on these actions is set out in the The Group maintains an appropriate level of as many businesses as possible, since no two table on the next page.
Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover in Ultra businesses are alike.
New Directors are respect of legal action against its Directors.
encouraged to meet business and divisional 6.
Introduction 56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Update on actions from the 2012 Board evaluation Focus Actions Progress Given the Groups operations in the US, it was The Board agreed that when appointing a new This observation would be taken into account concluded that a North American representative non-executive director this requirement would as part of the Boards succession planning on the Board would contribute to the Boards be taken into account insight and experience of the US market The level of Board interaction with the In addition to presenting the Strategic Plan In addition to the Group strategy day and Divisional Managing Directors Presidents would annually, the Divisional Managing Directors project presentations to the Board, the be increased Presidents would meet with the Board part way Non-Executive Directors met with the Divisional through the year to give an update on actions Managing Directors Presidents twice in the year arising from the Strategic Plan.
The NonExecutive Directors would aim to meet with the Divisional Managing Directors Presidents three times a year Risk management reporting would continue It was agreed that: The strategic risks as set out on pages 34 to 37 to be developed The strategic risks as set out in the 2012 are reviewed by the Board twice annually Annual Report would be reviewed by the A review of the reporting format for major Board twice annually project risks was conducted and an improved An enhanced unified reporting format for format adopted major project risks would be implemented An issue tracking tool has been adopted to An issue tracking tool would be used to record control issues identified by internal record control issues identified by internal audit along with agreed actions and audit along with agreed actions and timeframes for their remediation timeframes for their remediation Board evaluation continued Annual re-election of Directors Companys number 1 risk see page 35.
During In 2013, Mr Jack Telfer facilitated a review of All the Directors will stand for re-election at the the year under review, an Information Security individual Directors performance.
All Directors Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2014.
Policy was put in place for the Group and all completed a detailed questionnaire requiring Under normal circumstances, the Board would businesses were required to sign up to this them to give feedback on their fellow Board have sought to replace Chris Bailey as he has policy.
This policy highlights the guiding members contribution.
The objective of this served for a period of nine years.
However in principles necessary to safeguard the security of process was to encourage the improved view of the significant changes in the year to the Groups information systems.
It provides performance and effectiveness of the Board.
A the Groups financial function referred to on guidance on the management of information, report of the results was given to the Chairman page 49, the Board will seek to extend Chris documented or otherwise, and the processes to of the Board, detailing any significant points Baileys appointment for a further year.
The be followed should there be an incident which pertaining to individual Directors and broader Board expects to appoint a new finance occurs, such as breakdown of communication issues regarding the combined strengths and specialist non-executive director to seek election or network failure.
Mr Telfer reviewed the at the Annual General Meeting in the spring of Ultras internal controls are designed, and have report with the Chairman to discuss possible 2015.
The Board considers that Chris Bailey will evolved over time, to meet the Groups particular actions arising and the feedback to be provided continue to exercise his independence.
needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The review concluded However, no controls can provide absolute Conflicts of interest that each Director contributes effectively and assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The Group has in place procedures for demonstrates commitment to the role.
There is The key features of the internal control system managing conflicts of interest.
Ultras Articles of an appropriate balance of skills, experience, that operated during the year are described in Association also contain provisions to allow the independence, diversity and knowledge of the the Audit Committee Report on page 61.
Directors to authorise potential conflicts of Company to enable the Directors to discharge interest so that a Director is not in breach of his their respective duties and responsibilities Risk management or her duty under company law.
Commitment of time by all Directors Risk assessment and management is not treated become aware that they have an interest, for Board and Committee meetings and other as a separate function within Ultra.
It is assessed directly or indirectly, in an existing or proposed duties was also considered sufficient for the and managed as an integral part of all of the transaction with Ultra, they should notify the effective discharge of their responsibilities.
Groups management and control processes.
Board in line with the Articles of Association.
The key features of the risk management system Mr. Telfer has considerable experience of Directors have a continuing duty to update any are described in the Audit Committee Report on working at board level.
He was the Human changes to their conflicts of interest.
Resources Director of the Group up until June 2004 when he left Ultra to set up his own Internal controls Financial reporting systems consultancy and so was able to facilitate the The Directors carry out an annual review of the The Group has a well-established process for evaluation from a position of having a good effectiveness of the Groups internal control collecting financial information from operating understanding of the Group and its culture.
This covers the ways in which businesses and for consolidating this at provides a valuable insight into the Groups identified strategic, operational and financial divisional and Group level.
challenges and needs and is able to assess the risks are managed.
Particular attention in the Board and its Committees in the context of the Financial results for operating businesses, each year was paid to the security of the Groups IT Groups development.
division and the whole Group are provided to systems and cyber security, and generally on the Board monthly and presented at every improving information security management.
Ten scheduled Board Cyber security has been identified as the meetings are held each year.
When a scheduled Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 57 Corporate Governance Report continued Ultras strategic framework Board Meeting is not held in the month, the of the financial community to exhibitions, such as Shareholder analysis by category of Directors receive the following information: a the Farnborough Airshow and the Defence & shareholder as at 31 December 2013 summary financial report for the Group Security Equipment International exhibition.
Fund Holding % comprising consolidated financial information Members of the Executive Team also take part in Unit trusts 39,216,481 56.18 and business financial information: summary investor briefings organised by third parties.
financial reports from each of the businesses: Pension funds 10,187,917 14.59 All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual and a shareholder analysis summary report on General Meeting where they have the Other managed Ultra.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance opportunity to meet with Directors and to ask funds 3,934,498 5.64 Director explain the significance of any major questions.
Voting at the Annual General Sovereign wealth 3,529,974 5.06 impacts on the financial performance and draw Meeting is conducted by way of a show of the Boards attention to any significant trends or hands.
Proxy votes lodged for each Annual Insurance deviations from budget revealed by forecasts of General Meeting are announced at the meeting companies 3,386,993 4.85 future performance.
and published on Ultras website.
Electronic Private investor 2,825,641 4.05 communication with shareholders is preferred Shareholder communication Mutual fund 823,987 1.18 wherever possible since this is both more The Group is committed to ensuring effective efficient and environmentally friendly.
However, Investment trust 709,706 1.02 communication with its shareholders and shareholders may opt to receive hard copy encourages an open dialogue with shareholders Custodians 652,641 0.93 communication if they wish.
to promote a mutual understanding of Hedge fund 595,404 0.85 objectives and expectations.
Throughout the Shareholder analysis year, Ultra initiates tailored events and responds Exchange-traded The majority of Ultras shares are held by to meeting requests with current and fund 500,081 0.72 institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, prospective investors and financial analysts.
In Chief Executive and other members of Ultras Employee share line with Ultras commitment to clear and open Executive Team have holdings in Ultra, many of scheme trustees 235,247 0.34 communication with shareholders, in September whom have retained shares awarded via share 2013, the Chairman on behalf of the Board Charity 152,057 0.22 option or long term incentive schemes.
wrote to Ultras major shareholders advising Local authority 123,086 0.18 them of the Boards intention to extend Chris Other 2,931,171 4.19 Baileys appointment by a further one year see explanation on page 49.
No major issues were Total issued raised by those shareholders.
share capital 69,804,884 100.0 Meetings are held with institutional investors Shareholder analysis by size of holding and financial analysts after the release of the as at 31 December 2013 interim and full year financial results, at which Total number Total number % detailed briefings are given.
These briefings can Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital also be found on the Investors section of the 1-50 128 7.81 2,811 0.00 Groups website, together with copies of all regulatory announcements, press releases and 51-100 84 5.13 6,918 0.01 copies of the published full year and interim 101-250 356 21.72 65,305 0.09 accounts and reports.
The Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are always available to meet with shareholders should they have any concerns or questions that they wish to raise.
Financial calendar 26 March 2014 Annual Report and Each year, Ultra organises focused events and or Accounts published site visits to provide greater insight into the strengths and potential of its extensive portfolio 9 April 2014 Ex-dividend date of specialist capabilities.
These range from 11 April 2014 Record date introductory briefings on the Group as a whole to presentations on specific areas of capability.
30 April 2014 Annual General Visits and presentations in the year included a Meeting visit to Ultras Wimborne site which comprised a 2 May 2014 Final dividend review of Ultras nuclear sensors and payment date instrumentation capability, and discussion on how this applies to the current and future 4 August 2014 Interim results nuclear energy market.
The briefing also announced covered overviews of Ultras technology relating 26 September 2014 Interim dividend to cryptography, aerospace controls, radios, payment date vehicle electronic architectures and rail power management.
Ultra invites investors and members 6.
Introduction 58 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report continued Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees To consider the tenure of Chris Bailey, the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Ultra has established three Committees of the Senior Independent Director.
Chris Bailey left financial statements for each financial year.
Board being: the Audit: Remuneration: and the meeting when this item was under Under that law the Directors are required to Nominations Committees, to which certain key consideration prepare the Group financial statements in responsibilities have been delegated.
The accordance with International Financial Ultra operates a well-established succession detailed terms of reference of each Committee Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the planning process.
This is described in detail on are available from the Investors section of the European Union and Article 4 of the page 41.
The responsibilities of each International Accounting Standards Regulation Committee are in line with the recommendations IAS and have elected to prepare the Parent Statement of going concern of the Code.
The membership of the Audit and Company financial statements in accordance Ultras banking facilities amount to 190m in Remuneration Committees comprises the three with United Kingdom Generally Accepted total, plus a 15m overdraft.
They were independent Non-Executive Directors Chris Accounting Practice United Kingdom established in two tranches.
Bailey, Sir Robert Walmsley and Martin Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The first tranche comprises 90m of revolving Broadhurst, with Chris Bailey, Senior Independent Under company law the Directors must not credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars, Director, as Chairman of both Committees.
The approve the accounts unless they are satisfied Canadian dollars, Australian dollars or Euros.
membership of the Nominations Committee that they give a true and fair view of the state of This facility was signed in January 2011 and comprises the three independent Non-Executive affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss expires in January 2016.
The facility is provided Directors and Douglas Caster, with Chris Bailey as of the Company for that period.
Summaries of the In preparing the Parent Company financial key activities of each Committee are given below.
The second tranche provides a further 100m of statements, the Directors are required to: revolving credit in the same currencies.
This was Select suitable accounting policies and then Audit Committee signed in December 2012 with five banks and apply them consistently The Committee met four times during the year.
Both facilities have It is responsible for overseeing the Groups the same covenants.
Make judgments and accounting estimates internal financial controls and risk management: that are reasonable and prudent The Group has a shelf facility with Prudential recommending the half and full year financial State whether applicable UK Accounting Investment Management Inc.
This agreement results to the Board: and monitoring the integrity Standards have been followed subject to any gives the Group access to the US private of all formal reports and announcements relating material departures disclosed and explained in placement market on a bilateral basis.
The facility to the Groups financial performance.
Full details the financial statements is non-committed but is for up to $195m.
At the of the activities of the Audit Committee during year-end, $70m of loan notes had been issued, Prepare the financial statements on the 2013 are given on page 60. which will mature in 2018 and 2019. going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue Remuneration Committee As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the in business.
Role financing facilities are also used for other The Committee met seven times during the year.
balance sheet and operational needs, including In preparing the Group financial statements, It is responsible for formulating and the funding of day-to-day working capital International Accounting Standard 1 requires recommending to the Board the remuneration requirements.
The US dollar borrowings also that Directors: policy for Executive Directors and Chairman of represent natural hedges against assets Properly select and apply accounting policies the Board.
Full details of the activities of the denominated in that currency.
The Groups Present information, including accounting Remuneration Committee during 2013 are banking covenants have all been met during the policies, in a manner that provides relevant, given in the Directors Remuneration Report on past year with a comfortable margin.
The reliable, comparable and understandable page 63, comprising the Directors approved Group budget for 2014 and strategic information Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual plan for later years give confidence that the Report on Remuneration.
Both sections of the Provide additional disclosures when compliance Group will continue to meet these covenants.
report will be presented for approval by the with the specific requirements in IFRSs are Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
insufficient to enable users to understand the can be found in note 23 Financial Instruments impact of particular transactions, other events and Financial Risk Management.
Nominations Committee and conditions on the entitys financial position Though global macro-economic conditions Role and financial performance remain uncertain, the long-term nature of The function of the Nominations Committee is Make an assessment of the Companys ability Ultras business and its positioning in attractive to keep under review the structure, size and to continue as a going concern.
sectors of its markets, taken together with the composition of the Board, and to make Groups forward order book, provide a The Directors are responsible for keeping proposals to the Board regarding the satisfactory level of confidence in respect of adequate accounting records that are sufficient appointment of new directors and Board trading in the year to come.
to show and explain the Companys transactions Committee chairmen.
The terms of reference and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any are available on Ultras website The Directors have a reasonable expectation that time the financial position of the Company and www.
Ultra has adequate resources to continue in enable them to ensure that the financial operational existence for the foreseeable future.
During 2013 the Committee met once.
statements comply with the Companies Act Thus, they continue to adopt a going concern The purpose of this meeting was threefold: 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding basis of accounting in preparing the annual To review and endorse the Groups diversity the assets of the Company and for taking financial statements.
policy see page 54 reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
To recommend to the Board that Douglas Directors responsibilities statement Caster be appointed as a member of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Committee Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
All references in these sections to Company mean Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 59 Corporate Governance Report continued Ultras strategic framework The Directors are responsible for the In accordance with Section 418 of the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and Companies Act 2006, each Director in office at financial information included on Ultras the date the Directors Report is approved, website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom confirms that: governing the preparation and dissemination of so far as the Director is aware, there is no financial statements may differ from legislation relevant audit information of which Ultras in other jurisdictions.
auditors are unaware: and The Directors confirm that to the best of their he she has taken all the steps that he she ought knowledge, taken as a whole: to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit the financial statements, prepared in information and to establish that Ultras accordance with the relevant financial auditors are aware of that information.
reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and The Annual Report on pages 1 to 77 was profit or loss of Ultra and the undertakings approved by the Board of Directors and included in the consolidation: authorised for issue on 28 February 2014 and the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, signed on behalf of the Board by: balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Ultras performance, business model and strategy: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Ultra and the undertakings included in the consolidation, Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive together with a description of the principal risks Mary Waldner, Group Finance Director and uncertainties that they face.
