60 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Audit Committee Report Governance Audit Committee Report... as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the year.
Ultra is committed to ensuring that it has robust their audit work and any matters that they Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the and effective risk management and financial thought should be brought to the Committee.
external audit process, including the external control processes.
As Chairman of the Audit auditors appointment, fees and independence Role Committee, I am pleased to present our report Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal The Committees main responsibilities include detailing the role and responsibilities of the audit function and the Groups system of the following: Committee in this regard.
The Boards report on internal control, including financial reporting Scrutinising the Groups annual and interim the systems of internal control and their and the processes for monitoring and financial statements and accounts and effectiveness, together with the going concern evaluating the risks facing the Group.
reporting to the Board on the significant statement, can be found in the Corporate financial reporting issues and judgements made The Committee has written terms of reference Governance Report on pages 52 to 59. which includes all matters indicated by the Reviewing the content of the Annual Report During the year, the Committee continued to Code.
These terms of reference are reviewed and Accounts and advising the Board whether, review the appropriateness of the Groups and approved by the Board annually.
The terms taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and system of risk management and internal of reference are available on Ultras website understandable and provides the information controls, the robustness and integrity of the www.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups financial reporting, along with both the Groups performance, business model The Board is kept fully informed of the internal and external audit processes.
and strategy Committees work and the minutes of each The Group outsources its internal audit function Committee meeting are circulated to Board and at the beginning of the year, the Group members.
changed its internal auditors to  PwC.
In producing the 2013 internal audit plan, PwC adopted a risk Activities of the Committee during the year based approach, ensuring the plan is clearly linked to the Groups strategy and flexible Topic What was considered enough to highlight and address emerging risks.
Financial reporting Annual and interim financial statements and Composition related results announcements The composition of the Committee is set out on Reports from the external auditor on the page 58.
The members of the Committee have outcome of their audit process the relevant financial and accounting experience Key accounting policies and practices adopted by required by the Code.
The Chairman of the the Group, key accounting judgments see page Committee is supported in his role by the other 61 and matters that required the exercise of members of the Committee who have a wide significant management judgment see page 61 range of business experience and expertise, as evidenced in their biographies on pages 50 to 51.
The going concern statement see page 58 Meetings and attendance Internal controls Reports on the internal control environment The Committee met four times during the year and risk management and their effectiveness under review.
In addition to the Committee Key risk mitigation Progress reports on work undertaken to members, regular attendees are: the Chairman strengthen controls around the Groups main of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group risks see pages 61 Finance Director and the Marketing Director.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts Audit plans Internal and external audit plans for the year as Secretary to the Committee.
Deloitte LLP are Whistleblowing Reports of calls to the Groups external the Groups external auditor.
To ensure full and Employee Hotline and how they have been open communication, the Deloitte Audit Partner investigated and dealt with attended all Committee meetings, and the lead partner from PwC attended those meetings at External auditor The external auditors engagement policy, which summary Internal Audit Reports were independence, effectiveness and audit and reviewed by the Committee.
non-audit fees During 2013, the Committee Chairman met Governance Changes to IFRS, financial reporting and UK with Deloitte and PwC in the absence of Corporate Governance Code Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In The Committees terms of reference addition, the Committee met with Deloitte without Executive Directors present, at which 2013 Corporate Governance Report.
Deloitte satisfactorily reported on the findings of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 61 Audit Committee Report continued Ultras strategic framework After discussions with both management and the external auditor, the Committee determined independence and concluded that Deloitte had that the key risk of misstatement to the Groups financial statements relate to: been sufficiently transparent and incisive and the audits had been effective.
The Committee Significant financial issues and financial How the Committee addressed concluded that Deloitte was both independent reporting for 2013 these issues and objective and that the reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor should be Revenue and profit recognition on the largest The Committee assessed the risk control recommended to the shareholders.
Accordingly, long-term contracts in the Group processes and approval practices adopted a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be put to when determining profit recognition shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Defined benefit pension scheme asset valuation The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte defined benefit pension scheme were on the Ultra audit is subject to a strict policy of reviewed.
Advice was taken from independent regular rotation such that there is a change in actuaries on the appropriateness of the this role at least once every five years.
This is in assumptions used and discussions were held accordance with professional practice with the external auditors guidelines.
The current senior audit partners tenure commenced in 2011.
Deloitte were Valuation of goodwill and intangibles The Committee reviewed the methodology and appointed in 2002.
The Committee considered assumptions used to determine the balance the audit tendering provisions in the Code sheet values.
The Committee also considered which provide that FTSE 350 companies should reports from, and held discussions with, the put the external audit contract out to tender at external auditors least every ten years.
The Committee considers that for an organisation of the size and complexity of Ultra, the tendering of external Internal controls and risk management The Board maintains an internal audit process, audit must be well planned to ensure that the The Committee reviews: the Groups systems of carried out by PwC, to review financial and Group complies with best practice corporate internal controls and risk management: their information systems control procedures governance as well as ensuring the Group effectiveness: improvements to these systems: throughout the Group.
All significant business receives a high quality, efficient and effective and resolution of any control issues identified.
units are audited by the outsourced internal external audit service.
On this basis, the Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the audit function at least once every 2 years, while Committee considers it would be appropriate to Board and the Board Committees, with other businesses are audited on a 3 year cycle.
retender the external auditors at the end of the delegation of operating responsibility to In addition, all newly acquired free-standing current senior audit partners tenure.
There are management clearly described in the Group businesses are audited within a year of their no contractual obligations that restrict the Operating Manual.
Financial reporting systems acquisition date.
The lead partner of PwC Committees choice of external auditors.
are comprehensive and include monthly reports directly to the Chairman of the The auditors engagement letter and the scope reporting cycles.
Monthly finance reports are Committee and presents the findings of his of the years annual audit cycle is discussed in prepared by all businesses containing actual team twice annually to the Committee.
Progress advance by the Committee, ensuring that any financial performance measures for the most reports on follow-up remedial actions are changes in circumstances arising since the recent month and year to date.
These are reported regularly to the Committee.
PwC previous year are taken into account.
With compared with budget, forecasts and the prior confirms whether appropriate action has been respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by year.
These monthly reports are reviewed by the taken to address the risks when they next visit Deloitte, Ultra has a policy to ensure that the relevant Divisional Finance Director, Group the business concerned.
provision of such services do not impair Finance Director and the Board.
Financial The Managing Directors Presidents, Finance Deloittes independence or objectivity.
The policy information is uploaded monthly by all Directors and Vice Presidents of Finance of each is that: businesses to BPC, the Groups consolidation and business are required to give a formal written Non-audit services are restricted to regulatory reporting system, which is collated by the Head representation to the Board each year reporting, consultancy services associated with Office finance team and reconciled to the confirming that they accept responsibility for financial restructuring, responding to new businesses monthly report.
When preparing and maintaining effective internal controls and that reporting requirements, due diligence reviewing financial information, the businesses they have disclosed full details of any fraud or assessments of potential acquisitions and minor do not work to a materiality threshold.
All suspected fraud within their business.
In connection with variances judged to be significant in relation to a The Board accepts overall responsibility for acquisition due diligence work and certain specific balance are investigated and explained.
reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the consultancy work, it is the Boards view that the Every 6 months, each Divisional Finance Director Groups internal controls at least annually and auditors familiarity with the Groups accounting meets with the Group Finance Director and has performed a specific assessment for the practices and the techniques that are involved discusses the internal controls processes and issues purposes of this Annual Report.
With the in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves for each business in their division.
This includes: assistance of the Committee, all significant them well in carrying out such work Results from the Senior Accounting Officer aspects of internal control for 2013 have been When considering the use of the external review and any tax audits reviewed and internal procedures amended auditors to undertake non-audit work, where necessary.
Self-assessment against the Group consideration must be given to the provisions Operating Manual of the Financial Reporting Council Guidance External auditors on Audit Committees with regard to the Outstanding internal and external audits The performance, effectiveness and preservation of independence and objectivity Segregation of duties and IT access audits independence of Ultras auditors, Deloitte, is The external auditors must certify to Ultra that reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Compliance with the Groups Information they are acting independently Committee considered the questions contained Security Policy in a questionnaire issued by the Institute of Summary results from these reviews are included in Chartered Accountants of Scotland in October the Internal Controls Improvement Status Report, 2007 to assess performance, effectiveness and which is presented to the Committee twice a year.
Introduction 62 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Audit Committee Report continued Governance Audit Committee Report continued External auditors continued Whistleblowing In providing a non-audit service, the external An independently hosted Employee Hotline is auditors should not: used to provide a process for reporting ethical audit their own work concerns.
Employees are informed of this make management decisions for the Group process through posters which are translated create a mutuality of interest into local languages and through the Group find themselves in the role of advocate for intranet which is accessible by all employees.
the Group Employees can report ethical dilemmas or other similar concerns they may have via this external The Group Finance Director has authority to Employee Hotline and can remain anonymous if commission the external auditors to undertake they wish.
Employee concerns are forwarded non-audit work where there is a specific project directly to the Chairman of the Audit with a cost that is not expected to exceed Committee or, in the case of issues covered by 50,000.
Any individual assignments with an US security legislation, to the Chairman of the estimated fee in excess of 50,000 must be Security Committee of either Ultras Special referred in advance to the Chairman of the Security Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Committee for his approval.
The non-audit Board company, as appropriate.
During 2013, work has to be reported to the Committee at no reports were submitted two in 2012. its next meeting.
Before commissioning non-audit services, the Anti-bribery Group Finance Director or the Chairman of Ultra has robust anti-bribery policies and the Committee, as appropriate, must ensure procedures in place.
All Directors and employees that the external auditors are satisfied that are required to sign Ultras code of conduct on there is no issue as regards independence and anti-bribery and commit to act in accordance with objectivity and other potential providers are the code.
Within 1 week of joining Ultra, Directors adequately considered.
and employees undertake anti-bribery training.
Further anti-bribery training is given to targeted The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of audit and groups throughout the year.
The Group intranet approved non-audit services are shown in note 6 contains a statement from the Chief Executive to the Financial Statements.
regarding compliance with Ultras anti-bribery The Group has a policy on employment of policies.
Compliance with the code of conduct on former employees of external auditors.
This anti-bribery is closely monitored by a requirement requires that any such employment is considered for Ultra businesses to submit monthly business on a case by case basis and takes into account performance reports confirming compliance with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the code and reporting any breaches.
Such appointment requires approval by a combination of the Group Finance Director, Audit Committee and the Board, Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Audit Committee depending on the seniority of the appointment.
28 February 2014 Fraud The internal audit process carried out by PwC, described on page 61, and the Groups internal control framework help to protect the Group against fraud.
Regular business reviews take place at all businesses, in which detailed balance sheet and cash flow reviews are carried out by The members of the the relevant Divisional Managing and Financial Committee have the Directors.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director review the performance relevant financial and of the businesses with the Divisional team accounting experience monthly and directly with the businesses at least twice a year.
Significant differences between required by the Code.
forecast and reported financial results are The Chairman of the highlighted and require explanation by the Committee is supported business unit concerned.
The internal control framework that is in place is supplemented by in his role by the other the external audit process which represents a members of the second independent review of controls and Committee who have a procedures, with selective transaction testing of high risk areas.
There is a fraud reporting wide range of business process in place.
Any reports of fraud would experience and expertise... immediately be investigated and the situation reported at the next Board meeting.
