REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent NonExecutive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such ATTENDANCE members.
It is chaired by Byron Grote.
The composition of the Byron Grote 9 9 Committee changed after the AGMs in May 2013 when both Chairman of the Audit Committee Charles Golden and Kees Storm rotated on to other committees and Mary Ma, Hixonia Nyasulu and John Rishton joined.
For the Charles Golden 5 5 purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Byron Grote is the Mary Ma 4 4 Audit Committees financial expert.
There was full attendance at Hixonia Nyasulu 4 4 all the meetings except for John Rishton who attended three of the John Rishton 3 4 four meetings he was eligible to attend.
The Boards have satisfied Kees Storm 5 5 themselves that the current members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings experience.
Other attendees at Committee meetings or part for the year ended 31 December 2013.
If Directors are unable to attend thereof were the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor, Group a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda Controller, Chief Legal Officer, Group Secretary and the external items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the auditor.
Throughout the year the Committee members periodically number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
met without others present and also held separate private sessions with the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Auditor and the external auditor, allowing the Committee to discuss any issues of HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013 emerging concern in more detail directly.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE Review of the Annual Report & Accounts The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in Tender for statutory audit services written terms of reference which are reviewed annually by the Review of managements improvements to Committee taking into account relevant legislation and recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are contained reporting and internal control arrangements within The Governance of Unilever which is available on our Review of Unilevers tax principles website at www.
Review of Unilevers major change programmes The Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the Review of IT security following matters with a view to bringing any relevant issues to the attention of the Boards: Review of corporate risks for which the Audit Oversight of the integrity of Unilevers financial statements: Committee had oversight in 2013 Review of Unilevers quarterly and annual financial statements External benchmarking of the Internal Audit including clarity and completeness of disclosure, approval function and publishing of the quarterly trading statements for quarter 1 and quarter 3: Oversight of risk management and internal control arrangements: PRIORITIES FOR 2014 Oversight of compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: Oversight of the external auditors performance, qualifications and independence, the approval process of non-audit services, Oversee and facilitate a smooth transition to the together with the recommendation to the Boards of their new external auditors nomination for shareholder approval: Ongoing assessment of new regulatory The performance of the internal audit function: and Approval of ULE expense policy and review of Executive requirements for audit committees with respect Director expenses.
to reporting and governance Continual assessment of the corporate risks for which the Audit Committee has oversight and related mitigation response plans Review of Unilevers major change programmes Review of non-financial KPIs Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 53 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED HOW THE COMMITTEE HAS DISCHARGED ITS RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements During the year, the Committees principal activities were as follows: under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and Unilevers The Committee reviewed the quarterly financial press releases dividend policy and dividend proposals.
together with the associated quarterly reports from the Chief Financial Officer and the Disclosure Committee, and with respect to During 2013 the responsibility for overseeing the independent the half-year and full-year results the external auditors reports, assurance work that is performed on a number of our Unilever prior to their publication.
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Sustainable Living Plan USLP metrics selected on the basis of Accounts and Annual Report on Form 20-F.
These reviews their materiality to the USLP was transitioned from the Corporate incorporated the accounting policies and significant judgements and Responsibility Committee to the Audit Committee.
estimates underpinning the financial statements as disclosed within note 1 on pages 94 and 95.
Particular attention was paid to the In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk following significant issues in relation to the financial statements: management, internal control and the financial statements, the goodwill and intangible assets impairment testing refer to Committee met regularly with senior members of management note9: and is fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
pensions obligations and assumptions, refer to note 4: provisions and contingencies, including direct and indirect tax INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION provisions, refer to notes 6 and 19: The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year The external auditors have agreed the list of significant issues and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
interim and year-end summary reports and managements response.
The Committee carried out its own evaluation of the For each of the above areas a paper outlining the key facts and performance of the internal audit function together with engaging an judgements, prepared by management, was circulated to the independent third party to perform an external benchmarking study Committee prior to the meeting at which it was discussed.
and was satisfied with the effectiveness of the function.
The Members of management attended the section of the meeting of Committee met independently with the Chief Auditor during the year the Committee where their paper was discussed to answer any and discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
questions or challenges posed by the Committee.
The issues were also discussed with the external auditor.
The Committee was AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS satisfied that these significant issues have been appropriately , Unilevers external auditors and addressed by management.
independent registered public accounting firm, reported in depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, At the request of the Board the Committee considered whether the including their audit of internal controls over financial reporting 2013 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. understandable and whether it provided the necessary information Their reports included accounting matters, governance and for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business control, and accounting developments.
The Committee were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and The Committee held independent meetings with the external auditors understandable.
during the year and reviewed, agreed, discussed and challenged their audit plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS profile of the Group.
The Committee discussed the views and The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk conclusions of  regarding managements management and control, and its processes, outcomes and treatment of significant transactions and areas of judgement during disclosure.
It reviewed: the year and  confirmed they were satisfied the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report, that these had been treated appropriately in the financial statements.
including Code of Business Principles cases relating to frauds and financial crimes and significant complaints received through EXTERNAL AUDITORS the Unilever Code Support Line: The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, the 2013 corporate risks for which the Audit Committee had objectivity and independence of the external auditor, recommends oversight and the proposed 2014 corporate risks identified by the appointment of the external auditor to the Boards and the Unilever Leadership Executive: approves their fees.
Each year, the Committee assesses the managements improvements to reporting and internal effectiveness of the external audit process which includes gaining financial control arrangements: feedback from key stakeholders at all levels across Unilever.
processes over cyber security, information management and privacy:  has been Unilevers sole auditor since tax planning, insurance arrangements and related risk 1987.
During 2013 Unilever decided to change its auditors in order management: to remain at the forefront of good governance and in recognition of treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: regulatory changes in Europe and elsewhere.
A number of firms commodity risk management, governance and derivatives were approached to tender for the audit in July 2013 and the Audit hedging: and Committee reviewed each of the audit firms proposals and litigation and regulatory investigations.
recommended to the Boards that KPMG be proposed for appointment.
As a result of the tender,  appointment will expire at the completion of the 2014 AGMs, following which KPMG will become Unilevers statutory auditor, subject to approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs see pages 50 and 141.
54 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Both Unilever and  have for many years had safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised, such as audit partner rotation and the restriction on non-audit services that the external auditors can perform as described below.
The Committee reviewed the report from  on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
Through the tender process we have also worked with KPMG to ensure that they would be independent from the beginning of the 2014 financial year.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, auditrelatedand non-audit related services provided by  and compliance with Unilevers documented approach, which prescribes in detail the types ofengagements, listed below, for which the external auditors canbeused: statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: audit related engagements services that involve attestation, assurance or certification of factual information that may be required by external parties: non-audit related services work that our auditors are best placed to undertake, which may include: tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: acquisition and disposal services, including related due diligence, audits and accountants reports: and internal control reviews.
Several types of engagements are prohibited, including: bookkeeping or similar services: systems design and implementation related to financial information or risk management: valuation services: actuarial services: internal audit: and staff secondments to a management function.
All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related engagements over 100,000 required specific advance approval by the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approved all engagements below these levels which have been authorised by the Group Controller.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and each has concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
Byron Grote Chairman of the Audit Committee Mary Ma Hixonia Nyasulu John Rishton Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 55
