REPORT OF THE NOMINATING AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMITTEE The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee comprises two Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
ATTENDANCE It is chaired by Kees Storm.
The composition of the Committee Kees Storm 4 4 changed after the AGMs in May 2013 when both Paul Walsh and Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Ann Fudge left the Committee.
At that time, Kees Storm took over Governance Committee the Chairmanship of the Committee from Paul Walsh.
The other members are Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Michael Treschow.
The Ann Fudge 2 2 Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Sir Malcolm Rifkind 2 2 Committee met four times in 2013.
All Committee members Michael Treschow 4 4 attended the meetings they were eligible to attend.
Other Paul Walsh 2 2 attendees at Committee meetings or part thereof were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer and the Group Secretary.
The composition of the Committee changed after the 2013 AGMs.
This table shows the attendance of Directors at Committee meetings for the ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE year ended 31 December 2013.
If Directors are unable to attend a The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and items with the Committee Chairman.
Attendance is expressed as the drawing up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning and number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual General Meetings.
The Committee is responsible for recommending HIGHLIGHTS OF 2013 candidates for nomination as Executive Directors including the Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Directors each year, based on the process of evaluations referred to below.
After Board, Committee and Director performance Directors have been appointed by shareholders, the Committee evaluation process recommends to the Boards candidates for election as Chairman Rotation of Directors on Board Committees and Vice-Chairman Senior Independent Director.
During the year, the Committee also consulted with the Chief Executive Officer on Review of relevant legislative and corporate the selection criteria and appointment procedures for senior governance changes management.
It also keeps oversight of all matters relating to Review of Board Diversity Policy corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Boards.
The Committees terms of reference are contained in The Governance of Unilever and are also available on our website at www.
PRIORITIES FOR 2014 PROCESS FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS Continued focus on Director succession Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, the Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The External Board Evaluation Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman Senior Active participation in relevant regulatory Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards consultations assess their own performance.
Each of the Directors also has an Tracking gender metrics interview with the Chairman to discuss individual performance.
The outcomes of the Board and individual evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations for re-election of Directors.
Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills and expertise.
The Committee reviews candidates presented by the recruitment firm, or recommended by Directors and members of the Unilever Leadership Executive, and all members of the Committee are involved in the interview process before making their recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed profile of Unilevers Boards of Directors, which takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch and UK Corporate Governance Codes.
The agreed Board profile, contained in The Governance of Unilever, which can be found on our website at www.
com investorrelations corp governance, includes that the Boards should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors who should be independent of Unilever and free from any conflicts of interest.
With respect to composition and qualities of the Boards, they should be in keeping with the size of Unilever, its portfolio, culture and geographical spread and its status as a listed company.
The objective pursued by the Boards is to have a variety of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect Unilevers consumer 58 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 base and take into account the footprint and strategy of the Group.
PROFILE OF UNILEVERS BOARDS OF DIRECTORS The desired experience and expertise set out in the Board profile can be found opposite.
DESIRED EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE In view of Unilevers objectives and activities, it is important The Boards recognise the benefits of diversity throughout the that the Boards have sufficient financial literacy, have at least Group, including gender balance.
The Committee reviewed and one financial expert and are composed in such a way that the considered relevant recommendations on diversity and is pleased following expertise and experience are present in one or that over 40% of our Non-Executive Directors are women.
more of its members: However, Unilever feels that gender is only one part of diversity, Executive management experience and knowledge of and Unilever Directors will continue to be selected on the basis of corporate governance issues at main board level with a their wide-ranging experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge company comparable in size and international spread of and insight.
activities with multiple stock exchange listings: Understanding of human resources and remuneration in It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become large international companies: a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an Experience in financial administration, accounting policies appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where and internal control: relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge Risk management of multinationals with share listings: and experience to the benefit of the Group see page 40 for details Understanding of the markets where Unilever is active: in the Directors biographies.
Experience in and understanding of the fast-moving consumer goods FMCG market: ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Knowledge of marketing and commercial expertise: The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering Awareness of corporate social responsibility issues: and themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGMs in May 2013 and, as Experience with R&D in those fields where Unilever is three of the Non-Executive Directors were due to complete nine active.
years of service in 2015, proposed the nominations of Laura Cha, Mary Ma and John Rishton as new Non-Executive Directors at the PROFILE 2013 AGMs.
The Committee then continued during the year to This profile guides the Nominating and Corporate consider succession planning for the Boards.
Governance Committee and the Boards on the occasion of the nomination of Directors.
It is reviewed and updated by The Committee undertook a review of Committee memberships the Boards periodically.
and recommended to the Boards changes to the membership of all Committees.
The Boards approved these recommendations and the new Committees were effective from the 2013 AGMs.
Revised standard terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors containing provisions to promote the success of the company in accordance with the latest requirements of UK and Dutch company law and best practice guidelines and updated language on tenure of appointment, termination and fees were signed by all Non-Executive Directors in May 2013.
For our internal Board evaluation this year, Unilever again used Thinking Board, the web-based governance self-assessment service from Independent Audit.
This provided an added external perspective when considering our approach and Independent Audit challenged us on the questions used and helped us to analyse the results.
Further information on this evaluation can be found on page 44.
The results of this years evaluation were discussed at the November 2013 Board meetings.
In 2014, an externally facilitated evaluation will be carried out.
During the year, the Committee undertook a review of the Committees terms of reference to ensure they remained in line with relevant guidelines.
The amended terms became effective on 1 January 2014.
The Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and each has concluded that the Committee is performing effectively.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Sir Malcolm Rifkind Michael Treschow Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 59
