38 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report audit Committee report Jonathan Brooks | Audit Committee Chairman The Board places a very high priority on the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the quality and transparency of its financial reporting and the effectiveness of AVEVAs risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and governance of these critical areas.
throughout the process the Board or the audit committee: 2012 13 rEvIEW B gives consideration to whether areas should be looked at more audIt CoMMIttEE tErMS oF rEFErEnCE closely through specific control reviews: The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial B identifies areas where enhancement of internal controls is required: and statements of the Group and the committee members, as part of the full Board, reviews all proposed announcements to be made B agrees action plans to deliver the necessary by the Group and consideration is given to any significant financial or recommended enhancements.
reporting judgements contained in them.
there is a formal whistleblowing policy which has been The Committee considers the effectiveness of financial reporting communicated to employees.
this policy provides information and internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, accounting on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels standards and the listing, disclosure and transparency rules of it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
the audit committee is the Financial services authority and also reviews any proposed satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees change in accounting policies and any recommendations from to make representations in confidence to the Group and for the Groups auditor regarding improvements to internal controls appropriate and proportionate investigations.
and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
a full copy of the committees terms of reference, which were valuatIon oF aSSEtS and lIaBIlItIES unchanged in 2012, is available from the companys website at www.
the audit committee discusses with management and the auditor the approach that has been taken in assessing all key estimates.
these include revenue recognition, provisions for impairment of CoMMIttEE MEMBErShIp intangible assets and receivables and the valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
In addition during 2012 13, the Committee the committee is formed of three independent nonexecutive directors.
Jonathan Brooks, as the chairman of the committee, is also reviewed the valuation approach and methodology for the purchase price allocation related to the Bocad acquisition.
deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
he is a chartered management accountant and has held a number annually, the committee considers the going concern principle of senior financial positions in his career.
Brief biographical on which the financial statements are prepared and also considers information for Jonathan Brooks is included on page 33. and approves the impairment review of goodwill prepared by management.
during the year, particular attention was paid to InForMatIon FloWS to thE audIt CoMMIttEE the carrying value of goodwill related to the enterprise solutions line of business for which there is lower headroom in the impairment the audit committee meets at least four times per annum.
the committee examined the forecasts for this company chairman and cFo are invited to attend all meetings.
business and with its move to profitability during 2012 13 the external auditor and the Groups head of Finance are also invited was comfortable that no impairment was required.
members of senior management are invited from time to time to make presentations such as the committees agenda necessitates.
IntErnal audIt the committee meets three or four times annually with the auditor without any members of the executive management team being the Group does not maintain a separate internal audit function.
the audit committee chairman also meets with the external is principally due to the geographical spread of the Groups operations auditor two to three times per annum away from the Companys offices.
where there is a clear advantage in any internal audit work or review of controls being undertaken by teams with specific local regulatory the Board has granted authority to the audit committee such that the knowledge and without any local language barrier.
this favours committee and its members can seek independent legal, accounting the outsourced provision of internal audit work which is considered or other advice when it reasonably believes it necessary to do so.
as both more efficient and costeffective than having its own central internal audit team.
however, the audit committee does review rISk and IntErnal ControlS the need to have its own separate internal audit function each year.
the key elements of the Groups internal control framework and To complement the use of outsourced resources on specific internal audit projects, the audit committee has developed procedures are set out on page 34. the principal risks the Group faces are set out on pages 26 and 27. annually, the audit committee a framework to gain assurance over the system of internal financial and operational controls.
considers the Group risk register and related management controls.
COM directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 39 this comprises: MEEtIng datES 2012 13 and SuMMary agEndaS B a risk assessment performed by operational management and the Board to identify key areas for assurance: September 2012 B a series of peer and head office reviews of key risk areas of financial internal control.
in the last year there was an extensive review of B Review and confirmation of Audit Committee terms of reference the contract management process worldwide which highlighted B Consideration of the financial reporting risks for the some inconsistencies in certain geographies as well as the need 6 month interim report to provide more accounting support for the larger enterprise B Update on Group risk register solutions contracts.
Both issues have now been dealt with: B an extension of the external auditors work in certain areas and geographies to cover other key financial risks, such as November 2012 operations in fast growth areas and taxation risks arising from trading in emerging markets.
during 2012 13 additional testing B Full review of the Group risk register was carried out in Brazil and in russia.
While overall controls B Discussion and agreement of framework to gain assurance were considered to be very good, some areas for improvement over the system of internal financial and operational controls were identified with respect to certain customer debtor policies, B Receipt of the report from the auditors on their Interim and local tax compliance.
in 2013 14 similar exercises are review findings scheduled to take place in south korea and china: and B Review and approval of the 6 month interim report B Discussion of the auditors 2012 13 audit plan B an annual assessment by the audit committee of the whole system of internal financial and operational controls.
March 2013 ExtErnal audIt B Presentation of reports on extended external audit procedures the audit committee advises the Board on the appointment B Consideration of potential financial reporting risks of the external auditor and on its remuneration both for audit for the full year report and nonaudit work and discusses the nature, scope and results B Presentation from management on the Groups of the audit with the external auditor.
the committee keeps under tax status and current risks review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity B Presentation from management on the internal business of the external auditor.
controls in place to ensure this include systems management information projects monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the audit, B Ratification of internal audit priorities for 2013 14 implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor B Assessment of effectiveness of external auditor to supply nonaudit services, and a review of the scope of the audit and fee and performance of the external auditor.
the audit committee approves all fees paid to the auditor for nonaudit May 2013 work.
during the year the auditor did perform some nonaudit work B Receipt of reports from management considering which mainly consisted of tax compliance work for subsidiaries of significant financial reporting risks the Group, financial and tax due diligence in connection with the B Receipt of the report from the auditors on their audit findings Bocad acquisition and some other statutory filing work.
B Formal going concern review The Group engages other independent firms of accountants B Tests of goodwill impairment to perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements B Review and approval of the preliminary announcement to ensure that the independence of the auditor is not compromised.
and 2013 annual report For example, during 2012 13, external advisors were used for tax advisory projects and to advise on elements of Bocads intellectual property and its valuation.
Audit partners are rotated every five years, with the current reporting risks facing the Group together with the auditors proposed incumbent in his third year, and a formal statement of independence audit approach to these significant risk areas.
The main areas of audit is received from the auditor each year.
the Board and the audit focus for the year were the areas of significant judgement of revenue Committee are satisfied that the independence of the auditor, recognition, provisions for impairment of assets and receivables originally appointed in 2002, has been maintained.
an analysis and retirement benefit obligations.
These are the principal areas of nonaudit fees is provided in note 7 to the financial statements.
of financial reporting risk for the Group and are likely to remain so.
these areas are described in more detail in note 3 to the at the march 2013 meeting, the committee assessed the effectiveness financial statements.
this assessment was based upon individual questionnaire feedback from key members of the Groups finance team as well as from the audit committee members.
the overall conclusion was that while the audit process was effective, some areas of potential improvement were identified.
the audit was last tendered in 2002. the audit committee consider Jonathan Brooks the reappointment or tendering of the audit each year.
the company audit committee chairman will tender the audit service in line with the revised uk corporate 23 may 2013 Governance code, including the associated transitional guidance, which together would require a tender before the 2021 audit.
audit planning and main audit issues at the november 2012 meeting of the committee the auditor presented its audit plan for 2012 13. this included a summary of the proposed audit scope for each of the Groups subsidiaries and a summary of what the auditor considered to be the most significant financial OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
