30 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report Corporate governance statement Philip Aiken | Chairman AVEVA is committed to the principles contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We aim to follow current best practice guidance wherever possible and each year we try to report as fully and transparently as possible on our methods of governance and our compliance with the Code.
CoMpoSItIon oF thE Board IntroduCtIon during the year the Board comprised the chairman, three I am pleased to introduce the 2013 Corporate nonexecutive directors including the senior independent director and two executive directors being the chief executive Governance statement.
The Company is and Chief Financial Officer.
committed to the principles of Corporate as announced in april 2012, nick Prest indicated that he wished Governance contained in the UK Corporate to step down from the Board at the July 2012 aGm.
Philip aiken, who was appointed to the Board in may 2012, succeeded nick Prest Governance Code provided by the Financial as chairman following his appointment at the July 2012 aGm.
Reporting Council and for which the Board Further details of the process for the appointment of mr aiken is accountable to shareholders.
The Company are contained in the nominations committee report on page 36. has complied with the provisions of the Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on pages 32 and 33. the membership of all Board committees UK Corporate Governance Code throughout is set out on pages 36 and 37. the year and to the date of this report.
opEratIon oF thE Board Further explanation of how the principles the chairman, along with the executive directors and company have been applied is set out below and, secretary, ensures that the Board functions effectively and has in connection with Directors remuneration, established Board processes designed to maximise its performance and effectiveness.
key aspects of these processes are: in the Remuneration Committee report on B the aveva Group Board meets regularly in combination pages 40 to 49. with the Board of aveva solutions limited, the main operating company in the Group which owns all the Groups trading subsidiaries.
the aveva solutions limited Board includes as members the cto and head of engineering & design systems and the coo and head of enterprise solutions as well as all the members of the Group Board.
this ensures that the aveva Group Board is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance as well as on financial outcomes.
B the Board met nine times during the year.
these meetings, together with any committee meetings, are generally held Board MEEtIng attEndanCE at the Groups Head Office in Cambridge or in London.
of meetings B the Board aims that once per year a Board meeting will be held outside the UK at one of the Groups overseas offices.
During MEETINGS hELd 9 2012 13, the october Board meeting was held in Paris, France.
MEETINGS ATTENdEd B in addition, the Board holds a full day strategy meeting every PhILIP AIkEN 100% after appointment 7 year which is generally held at an offsite location at which NICk PREST 100% up to retirement 2 executive directors and members of the senior management JONAThAN BROOkS 9 team make presentations covering progress against current PhILIP dAyER 9 strategy and objectives and ideas for future investment.
hERV COuTuRIER 8 B the Board delegates the day to day responsibility RIChARd LONGdON 9 for managing the Group to the executive directors.
COM directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 31 group StruCturE 2012 13 thE Board ExECutIvE dIrECtorS nonExECutIvE dIrECtorS Richard Longdon Philip Aiken Chairman James Kidd Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer Herv Couturier CoMpany SECrEtary Helen BarrettHague ExECutIvE ManagEMEnt tEaM ChIEF ExECutIvE oFFICEr ChIEF FInanCIal oFFICEr Richard Longdon James Kidd Coo and hEad oF Cto and hEad oF ExECutIvE vICE prESIdEnt ExECutIvE vICE prESIdEnt ExECutIvE vICE prESIdEnt EntErprISESolutIonS EngInEErIng & dESIgn SyStEMS gloBal SalES BuSInESS StratEgy huMan rESourCES Derek Middlemas Dave Wheeldon Hans Van Der Drift Mat TrucheGordon Hilary Wright B to enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors sufficient calibre to bring the independent judgement on issues receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct are distributed by the company secretary to all directors which is vital to the Group.
usually four working days in advance of Board and the roles of the chairman and the chief executive are distinct committee meetings.
and the division of responsibility between these roles has been B a monthly reporting pack containing management accounts clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
with commentary and reports from each executive are the chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
and ensuring that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
the chief executive is responsible to the Board for the day to B meetings were held between the chairman and the day management of the business, leadership of the executive nonexecutive directors during the year, without the team and execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
executives being present, to discuss appropriate matters as necessary.
MattErS rESErvEd For thE Board B the chairman ensures that the directors take independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, where they judge the Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically all members of the Board have access to the advice of the reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the company secretary.
Groups affairs, which include: B nonexecutive directors and executive directors are encouraged B overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: annually to undertake training in furtherance of their specific roles B corporate governance: and general duties as a director.
B review of trading performance and forecasts: the attendance of individual directors at Board meetings during the year is set out in the table on page 30.
B risk management: B Board membership: IndEpEndEnCE oF nonExECutIvE dIrECtorS B communications with shareholders: andSEgrEgatIon oF dutIES B approval of major transactions, including mergers and the Board has considered the independence of the chairman acquisitions: and and the nonexecutive directors and believes that all are currently independent of management and free from any material business B approval of the financial statements and annual operating or other relationships that could materially interfere with the and capital expenditure budgets.
exercise of their independent judgement.
their biographies on pages 32 and 33 demonstrate a range of experience and OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 32 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report Corporate governance statement Continued Board oF dIrECtorS during the year the Board comprised the Chairman, three NonExecutive directors including the Senior Independent director and two Executive directors being the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
As announced in April 2012, Nick Prest indicated that he wished to step down from the Board at the July 2012 AGM.
Philip Aiken, who was appointed to the Board in May 2012, succeeded Nick Prest as Chairman following his appointment at the July 2012 AGM.
a ChaIrMan and ExECutIvE dIrECtorS Philip Aiken | Chairman appointed 1 may 2012 Philip aiken has 40 years experience in industry and commerce having been, from 1997 to 2006, President BhP Petroleum and then Group President energy of BhP Billiton.
Prior to that he held senior positions with Btr plc 1995 to 1997 and Boc Group 1970 to 1995. other roles have included chairman of robert Walters plc, senior adviser for macquarie capital europe, chairman of the 2004 World energy congress and serving on the Boards of the Governor of Guangdong international council, World energy council and monash mt eliza Business school.
he is senior independent director of kazakhmys plc and essar energy plc and a nonexecutive director of national Grid plc and newcrest mining limited.
Richard Longdon | Chief Executive appointed 16 august 1994 richard longdon received engineering training in the defence industry then gained experience in the project management of high value engineering projects.
he moved into sales and held a series of international sales and marketing positions.
he joined aveva in 1984 and shortly afterwards was made marketing manager for the process products.
in January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt where he was responsible for setting up and running the Groups German office.
He returned to the uk as part of the management buyout team in 1994, taking responsibility for the Groups worldwide sales and marketing activities, before being appointed managing director in may 1999. he took over as Group chief executive in december 1999.
James kidd | Chief Financial Officer appointed 1 January 2011 James kidd is a chartered accountant and joined aveva in 2004.
Prior to his appointment to the Board, James held several senior finance roles within the Group and was Head of Finance from 2006.
He joined the Group at the time of the Tribon acquisition and played a significant part in the completion of this transaction and the subsequent integration of the acquired business.
his responsibilities have included investor relations, the development of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, standardisation of financial processes and procedures as well as being heavily involved in the Groups recent acquisitions.
Prior to joining aveva James worked for both arthur andersen and deloitte, serving technology clients in both transactional and audit engagements.
COM directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 33 Board oF dIrECtorS BalanCE oF ExECutIvE and nonExECutIvE lEngth oF tEnurE 03 yEARS 07 01 36 yEARS 6 yEARS 06 02 ChAIRMAN 01 PHILIP AIKEN ExECuTIVE dIRECTORS 02 JAMES KIDD NONExECuTIVE dIRECTORS 03 NICK PREST retired 04 JoNATHAN BRooKS 05 03 PHILIP DAyER 05 06 HERV CoUTURIER 04 07 RICHARD LoNGDoN B nonExECutIvE dIrECtorS Jonathan Brooks | NonExecutive Director appointed 12 July 2007 Jonathan Brooks joined aveva in July 2007 and currently holds a number of directorships with technology based companies.
he is chairman of xyratex limited, a nasdaqlisted provider of enterprise class data storage subsystems and network technology, and is a nonexecutive director and chair of the audit committee of iP Group Plc, which commercialises intellectual property from leading UK universities.
Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief Financial Officer and a director of arm holdings Plc where he was a key member of the team that developed arm holdings to be a leader in its sector.
Philip dayer | NonExecutive Director appointed 7 January 2008 Philip Dayer qualified as a Chartered Accountant and pursued a corporate finance career in investment banking, specialising in advising UK listed companies.
He was first appointed an advisory director in 1983 of Barclays merchant Bank limited and since then has held the position of corporate Finance director with a number of banks.
he retired from hoare Govett limited in 2004.
Philip was a financial consultant to OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, the Russian stateowned oil and gas company, on their flotation in 2006.
Philip is a NonExecutive Director of Kazmunaigas Exploration Production Jsc, the Parkmead Group plc, navigators underwriting agency limited and chairman of iP Plus plc.
herv Couturier | NonExecutive Director appointed 1 april 2010 herv couturier joined the aveva Board in april 2010. he is executive vice President, r&d, at amadeus, the leader in airline reservation systems.
since 2008, he was executive vice President of saP aGs technology Group and head of research.
he also serves as a board member for simcorp a s, a public danish software company, and has held management positions at a number of it companies including Business objects, the worldwide leader of business intelligence solutions, now part of SAP, S1 Corporation, a provider of software for financial and payment services, and XRT, a leading european treasury management software company, now part of the sage Group Plc.
herv holds both an engineering degree and a master of science degree from the cole centrale Paris in France.
he began his career at iBm in 1982, where he held various engineering and business positions until 1997.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS S A u A d E I R T A C S O S M E N M I I S T u T B E E 34 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report Corporate governance statement Continued rISk ManagEMEnt thE Board BuSInESS arEaS B Sets strategic objectives B Management responsible for identification, monitoring and reporting of risks B Approves risk governance structure and sets a strategy for acceptable levels of risk B Quarterly reporting of KPIs relevant to strategic objectives B Approves delegation of authority B Monthly reporting of financial results data B Reviews Group Risk Register and KPIs B Approves annual budget process B Implementation of risk mitigation plans including key investment decisions B Approves all M&A activity RiSk management pRoCeSSeS audIt CoMMIttEE IndEpEndEnt aSSuranCE B Review and challenges Group Risk Register B External audit B Receives and reviews reports from B Internal audit reviews external auditors B Quality standards audit B Sets direction for internal audit reviews B Insurer and property risk surveys and receives output reports IntErnal Control and rISk ManagEMEnt B an annual budget process which is reviewed, monitored and approved by the Board: the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
however, B regular meetings between the executive Board, sales area managers and lines of Business managers to discuss actual such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
the operating and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: the Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
B targeted internal audit reviews which focus on confirming the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups the operation of controls in key process areas: and internal controls, which have been in place from the start of B maintenance of insurance cover to insure all major risk areas the year to the date of approval of this report, and believes of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability that it is in accordance with the turnbull Guidance.
of the cover in the external market.
the key elements of the system of internal controls currently include: the Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including B each member of the executive Board has responsibility for financial, nonfinancial, operational and compliance controls and specific aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on risk management.
it is based principally on reviewing reports from a regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, management to consider whether significant risks are identified, reviewing operating results, identification and mitigation evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant of risks and communication and application of the Groups weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, matters are extensive monitoring.
the Board periodically carries out visits to the reported to the Board: Groups subsidiaries and receives presentations on their operations.
B regular reports to the Board from the executive Board on The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the key developments, financial performance and operational purpose of this annual report.
this involved reviewing a risk issues in the business: matrix for the Group that was prepared during a risk assessment workshop involving the executive Board and senior members B operational and financial controls and procedures which of management from lines of Business, sales and Finance legal.
include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal and capital expenditure, signing authorities, it application control necessary for the company to successfully carry out the controls, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation key business strategies of the Group together with more generic of duties and reviews by management: inherent risks of the Groups operations.
the audit committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
COM I N d E P E N d E d N R T A O A B S S u R A N C E directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 35 pErForManCE EvaluatIon Board members are offering themselves for reelection at the annual General meeting.
Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors takes place on an annual basis.
this year the evaluation On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm that they have sufficient time to devote to the role which is confirmed together was led by the chairman facilitated by a questionnaire which was completed by each director.
among other things, the questionnaire with details of their duties in the letter of appointment.
all directors asked directors for their views on: undergo an induction as soon as practical following their appointment.
as part of the induction process, directors are provided with B Board structure including the mix of skills, experience, background information on the Group and attend the Groups independence, knowledge, understanding and diversity headquarters in cambridge for meetings and presentations from of the Board : senior management.
in addition, where appropriate, meetings are B Board procedure including frequency of meetings, content also arranged with the Groups advisers.
of board papers, coverage of issues and topics and conduct nonexecutive directors are appointed for a term of three years.
of meetings : the terms and conditions of appointment of nonexecutive directors B the appropriateness of the companys internal controls: are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection B the visibility and effectiveness of its risk management on the day of the forthcoming annual General meeting.
processes: and B how well the Board operates and its effectiveness.
dIaloguE WIth InStItutIonal SharEholdErS directors were also asked to comment on the individual communication with shareholders is given high priority performance of their peers.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer at the march 2013 meeting, the chairman led a group discussion and a newly recruited head of investor relations have meetings regarding the effectiveness of the Board.
Following the meeting, with representatives of institutional shareholders and hold analyst he held onetoone interviews with each director regarding their briefings at least twice a year, following the announcement of the individual performance.
the effectiveness of the committees was interim and full year results, but also at other times during the year discussed in separate meetings of each committee.
a capital markets day was also held in september 2012 to present the strategy and future product roadmap of the Group.
overall, the Board concluded that the performance of its directors senior managers from Product development, Business strategy was effective and that it provides the effective leadership and and Finance also attended analyst and shareholder meetings during control required for a listed company.
the evaluations found the the year.
all of these meetings seek to build a mutual understanding Board committees were working well with the effectiveness of of objectives with major shareholders by discussing longterm almost all of the processes undertaken by the committee being strategy and obtaining feedback.
the Board also receives formal rated above average or fully satisfactory.
feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through as a result of recommendations made in this years Board the Companys public relations adviser and financial advisers.
performance evaluation: the Board is appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that executive and nonexecutive directors consider B the frequency of Board meetings will be reduced but each any matter raised by shareholders and to enable all directors meeting will last longer as the Board will continue to cover to understand shareholder views.
in addition, during 2012, each issue in as much depth: the Group consulted with shareholders in respect of proposals B a greater number of representatives from the different business for the remuneration of executive directors.
the senior independent nonexecutive director, Philip dayer, is available to shareholders divisions will be invited to present to the Board: and if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels B the Board will increase its interaction with each other outside of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has failed of the formal Board meeting.
to resolve or if such contact would be inappropriate.
the chairman, senior independent and nonexecutive directors are available for the Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the financial year ahead and in compliance dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend together with the other members of the Board the annual General meeting, with the uk corporate Governance code the committee intends to appoint an external facilitator to assist with its next but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications.
corporate information is also available on performance evaluation.
IndEMnItIES to dIrECtorS ConStruCtIvE uSE oF thE annual gEnEralMEEtIng in accordance with the companys articles of association, directors are granted an indemnity from the company to the the Board seeks to use the annual General meeting to communicate extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
of the performance of their duties in their capacity as directors the chairmen of the audit, remuneration, nominations and the to the company.
the indemnity would not provide any coverage treasury risk management committees will be available at the to the extent the director is proven to have acted fraudulently annual General meeting to answer any questions.
the company has maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
SharE CapItal StruCturE Further information on the share capital structure of the company polICy on appoIntMEnt and rEappoIntMEnt is contained on pages 50 and 51. in accordance with the articles of association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for reelection at least every three years by rotation and also following their appointment.
in addition, as in the prior year and in accordance with corporate Governance best practice, all of the remaining OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 36 AVEVA Group plc | annual report 2013 directors report Corporate governance statement Continued CoMMIttEES oF thE Board The Board has four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Treasury Risk Management.
In accordance with the uk Corporate Governance Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
They are available on request from the Companys registered office during normal business hours and are available on the Companys website at www.
01 audIt CoMMIttEE 02 noMInatIonS CoMMIttEE No.
of meetings MEETINGS hELd IN 2012 13 4 MEETINGS hELd IN 2012 13 MEMBERShIP ANd ATTENdANCE MEMBERShIP COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN: COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN: JONAThAN BROOkS 4 PhILIP AIkEN COMMITTEE MEMBERS: COMMITTEE MEMBERS: PhILIP dAyER 4 JONAThAN BROOkS hERV COuTuRIER 4 PhILIP dAyER the audit committee assists the Board in its oversight and the activities of the nominations committee include nomination, monitoring of financial reporting, risk management and internal selection and appointment of nonexecutive and executive directors, controls.
it tests and challenges these areas in conjunction with succession planning and the composition of the Board, particularly management and the auditor as appropriate.
the audit committee in relation to the diversity of background, skills and experience.
met four times during the year.
the nominations committee meets periodically when required.
in addition to the meetings there are a number of adhoc meetings the audit committee report on pages 38 and 39 sets out to address specific matters.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend in more detail the audit committees policies, practices and meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
during 2012 13, the committee did not meet formally but discussed a number of matters informally.
in late 2011 nick Prest communicated his decision to retire from the Board in 2012, subject to a suitable succession being arranged.
the nominations committee met under nick Prests chairmanship and with the participation of the ceo to consider an appropriate process for choosing a successor.
a committee was formed to manage the process, chaired by Jonathan Brooks.
An external executive search firm with a strong board practice was appointed to assist with the identification of appropriate candidates having considered the requisite skills, knowledge and experience for the position.
the shortlisted individuals, who included both external and internal candidates, were interviewed by the committee and met separately with the ceo.
as a result the nominations committee recommended the appointment of Philip aiken to the Board, initially as deputy chairman then becoming chairman, subject to shareholder approval, after the aGm in July 2012. upon his appointment, Philip aiken was considered to be independent.
REAd MORE: For the Full audit committee rePort z SEE PAGE 38 WWW.
COM directors report annual report 2013 | AVEVA Group plc 37 CoMMIttEES oF thE Board 03 rEMunEratIon CoMMIttEE 04 trEaSury rISkManagEMEnt CoMMIttEE trMC No.
of meetings MEETINGS hELd IN 2012 13 4 MEETINGS hELd IN 2012 13 2 MEMBERShIP ANd ATTENdANCE MEMBERShIP ANd ATTENdANCE COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN: COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN: PhILIP dAyER 4 PhILIP dAyER 2 COMMITTEE MEMBERS: COMMITTEE MEMBERS: PhILIP AIkEN from date of appointment 3 JONAThAN BROOkS 2 JONAThAN BROOkS 4 JAMES kIdd 2 NICk PREST to date of retirement 1 the remuneration committee makes recommendations the trmc was formed to oversee the Groups treasury function to the Board on the Groups policy for executive and senior given the increasing importance of managing the Groups treasury management remuneration and determines the individual activities and associated risks.
in addition to the above members, remuneration packages on behalf of the Board for the executive the head of Finance and Group treasurer are also invited to directors of the Group.
the trmc reviews the Groups overall financial risk management including: the chief executive attends meetings by invitation, except when the chief executives own remuneration package is being discussed.
B foreign exchange risk and related hedging policy: the committee has access to professional advice, both inside B credit risk which includes monitoring the Groups counterparty and outside the company, in the furtherance of its duties.
during exposure to banks: and the year the committee asked deloitte llP for advice on the structure B liquidity risk which includes reviewing the cash management and comparability of incentive bonus plans for executive directors structure in the Group.
the directors remuneration report sets out in more detail the remuneration committees policies and the policies of the Group in relation to these areas are explained practices on executive remuneration.
in note 26 to the financial statements.
during the year the trmc met twice to discuss the above matters and provided a report to the Board after each meeting.
PhiliP aiken chairman 23 may 2013 REAd MORE: For the Full remuneration committee z rePort SEE PAGE 40 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS
