Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder, Corporate Governance rightly continues to remain a prevailing area of shareholder focus.
At Vedanta, good governance is an integral part of how we do business and we have a well-established corporate governance management and embed the highest corporate governance standards throughout the organisation while supporting the strategic delivery of our objectives.
The Board provides clear strategic direction to and oversight of management who act within the limits of the authority delegated to them by the Board.
I am pleased to report that the Group has made and has proactively addressed the challenges we have encountered as outlined below: Cairn India The successful acquisition of a controlling stake in Cairn India has proved to be an excellent platform for growth in a high margin business and contributed to another year of robust EBITDA margins.
This acquisition has brought a world-class asset with further growth and exploration Anil Agarwal potential into the Group.
Cairn India was the fastest Chairman growing exploration and production company last year, winning the Platts Top 250 Energy Company Awards 2012 portfolio and geographic footprint.
Exploration expansion We have commenced work on the next stage of expansion for our Indian zinc business, following successful exploration over the years.
A US$1.5 billion project will over six years expand the capacity at our existing mines and open a new, small mine at Bamnia Kalan in the Rajpura Dariba belt to 1.2 million tonnes.
West Africa is emerging as a major iron ore hub and the Groups acquisition in Liberia last year has put us in a prime position to be a key player in this area as the country becomes one of the worlds leading exporters of iron ore. exploration in development areas, we began work to two exploration wells drilled in Sri Lanka.
In 2012 we initiated a major project to simplify our Group structure and unlock value for shareholders.
The merger of Sesa Goa Ltd and Sterlite Industries India Ltd to form structure across the Group with better alignment of operational synergies.
The necessary approval from the High Court of Bombay and Goa has been received and we now await the approval of the High Court of Madras.
76 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Improving operating costs 2015.
As we do not have any women on the Board at pr es en t, t h is rema in s a ke y p ri or ity of th e Bo ard f or th e we have either reduced or maintained unit costs in the year ahead.
Historically, the gender balance in leadership majority of our operations.
Whilst we are not immune from roles has been a challenge for the natural resources sector these pressures, we have a good track record of driving down costs, implementing operational improvements and successfully maintaining our assets with one of the lowest sustaining capex costs.
cultural challenges in addressing diversity throughout the Group, we have been successful in improving the overall Mining restriction gender balance.
While women currently comprise 8% The state-wide temporary mining restrictions in Karnataka of the overall Group employee population, they make up 12% o f t he pr of essiona l popu lat ion w ith in the Group.
companies such as Sesa Goa.
We are pleased that the Indian Supreme Court has recently lifted the temporary barriers to womens progression and to encourage the ban on mining of iron ore in Karnataka and we are working empowerment of women professionals within the towards resuming our mining operations in the region.
In addition, we aim to recruit 2025% women Mining in Goa remains suspended but we have lodged an through our graduate recruitment schemes across the appeal against this ban with the Supreme Court and await a organisation and review the career progression of women in to prof es sio na l a nd se nior m anagem e nt ro les th at could with all necessary stakeholders for a resolution of the provide a ready pipeline of potential talent for future matter.
Board composition the long-term success of the Group.
Together with the the Board.
This includes a rigorous evaluation of the other members of the Nominations Committee, as performance of the Board, its Committees and each of Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Committee, the Directors in order to recognise strengths and identify I regularly review the composition of the Board to ensure improvements that can be made to maintain a strong and that there is an appropriate balance of skills, experience, resilient Board, with the right balance of skills and independence and knowledge of the Group.
Last year evaluations were conducted by means of a questionnaire, independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Green has discussions at Board and Committee meetings and extensive experience in relation to strategic issues and meetings between myself and each of the Directors corporate governance practices that will provide unique individually.
It is our intention that the 2014 Board and insights to the Board in the pursuit of its strategic Committee annual performance evaluations will be priorities.
facilitated by an external expert.
As several of the Companys Non-Executive Directors have served on the Board for a number of years, Board annual evaluation exercise for focus during the year succession planning has been at the forefront of the include Board composition, the reduction of debt, cost Nominations Committees considerations and we will take the necessary steps to ensure smooth and orderly Board completion of the Group restructuring, acquisition of succession.
Mr Naresh Chandra will retire from the Board minority shareholdings in BALCO and HZL, dealing with following the conclusion of the Companys 2013 Annual the regulatory environment and proactive engagement General Meeting, having served nearly nine years on the with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Spencer Stuart, one of the worlds leading Board recruitment consultants, was engaged to conduct the search for suitable candidates to join as Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Committees and the contribution made by each Director.
Today, the Nominations Committee recommended and for consideration in previous reviews were addressed the Board approved the appointment of Mr Deepak Parekh during the year.
as a Non-Executive Director on the Companys Board with Yours sincerely, shareholders at the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Diversity and inclusion Anil Agarwal Chairman diversity, we set ourselves an aspirational target to achieve 15 May 2013 a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board by 77 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Corporate Governance Report continued The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code As a company with a premium listing on the London Stock This meant that Mr Agarwal did not meet the strict Exchange, Vedanta is subject to and seeks to comply with appoin tment i n 2 005 b ec au se h e w as p revious ly t h e C h ief Councils website at www.
The Company is required to report on how it has applied the main members of his family have a controlling interest in the principles of good governance in relation to leadership Company.
Mr Agarwal is pivotal in helping to achieve the stra tegic o bje ct iv es o f five d an ta t h ro ugh his skills in accountability and relations with shareholders as set out seeking out value-creating acquisitions and projects.
This Corporate Governance Report provides addition, the fact that he dedicates himself full time to his details of our approach to governance, our policies, role of Executive Chairman enables him to balance his processes and structures and explains how we have executive duties with providing leadership to the Board.
A s C ha irma n, Mr A garwa l en coura ge s d eb ate an d details of how the Company has applied the provisions of the Code are also contained in the reports of each Board reasons the Board is unanimously of the opinion that his Committee and the Directors Remuneration Report.
continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
Disclosures on share capital and related matters as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR Code Provision B.
6 may be found in the Directors Report.
Under the Relationship Agreement put in place at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all Statement of compliance with the Code appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee It is the Boards view that the Company has, throughout therefore works collaboratively with Volcan when making the year ended 31 March 2013, fully complied with all the provisions of the Code, with the exception of the from the process set out in Code Provision B.
2.1 which following: stipulates that the Nominations Committee should lead the process for Board appointments.
3.1 Anil Agarwal was appointed as Executive Chairman in 2005.
Mr Agarwal was the founder of the businesses of Vedanta Resources and steered the phenomenal growth of the Group since its inception in 1976, including the The Board of Directors As at the date of this Report, the Board, chaired by Anil Agarwal, comprises the Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nominations Committee.
Board membership and attendance Number of Percentage 1 Name Date of appointment Board Meetings attended attendance Executive Directors 2 Anil Agarwal 16 May 2003 5 6 83% Navin Agarwal 24 November 2004 6 6 100% 2 MS Mehta 1 October 2008 5 6 83% Non-Executive Directors Naresh Chandra 18 May 2004 6 6 100% Aman Mehta 24 November 2004 6 6 100% Euan Macdonald 23 March 2005 6 6 100% 3 1 August 2012 4 6 100% 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Director attended during the year while a member of the Board.
2 The Director was unable to attend a Board Meeting called at short notice due to prior commitments.
3 The Director joined the Board part way through the year on 1 August 2012.
78 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Debate Open discussions Consultative processes Encouragement to question Professional approach High ethical standards Supported by sound governance members Vedanta Board policies such as the Board Charter Excellent relationships between and Code of Business Conduct culture Board members and Ethics Entrepreneurial spirit Seeking out new business opportunities and acquisitions Underpinned by strong internal auditing and control systems The role of the Board At the highest level the Board operates by setting strategy and objectives, reviewing progress against these objectives and incorporating feedback into its decision-making processes.
The Board sets The Board The Board receives feedback from Vision Oversees Board members Values Challenges Committees Strategy Reviews risk Management Business model Stakeholders Role and responsibilities of the Board In setting the objectives of the Group, the Board takes into The Board of Directors is ultimately accountable to consideration the needs of various stakeholders such as shareholders for promoting the long-term success of the shareholders, employees, suppliers, governments and Group through the creation and delivery of sustainable communities within which the Group operates and shareholder value.
As part of their decision-making processes the Directors have a responsibility to consider it is willing to take in the pursuit of those objectives.
the long-term consequences of their decisions, the interests of the Companys employees, the need to foster The Board is also responsible for ensuring that risk is relationships with other stakeholders, the impact of the Companys operations on the environment and the need to systems of internal control and risk management are maintain high standards of business.
This is achieved by maintained to protect the business from operational ensuring its governance processes, as described below, are and reputational damage.
The Boards key responsibilities are for: The duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms of setting the strategic objectives of the Group: ensuring that adequate resources are provided to enable decision by the Board.
Key matters reserved for approval the Company to meet the objectives: and by the Board include: monitoring the progress made by management against approval of the Groups annual and interim reports and the Groups objectives.
declaration of the interim dividend and the 79 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Corporate Governance Report continued approval of the business plan and capital expenditure Group policies relating to business conduct, environment budget of the Group: and health and safety.
thresholds: There is a clear division of responsibility between the approval of major acquisitions and disposals of assets functioning of the Board and executive responsibility for ru nn in g t he bus ine ss.
The Board has an established policy setting of the Groups risk appetite.
which sets out the key responsibilities of the Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive Chairman, Senior The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters which must be reported to the Board, such as details of fatalities and the adoption or material amendment to the The role of the Executive Chairman The role of the Deputy Executive Chairman The Executive Chairman is responsible for: The Deputy Executive Chairman supports the Chairman in his l ea dership o f th e Bo ard a nd is r es po ns ibl e f or : and setting its agenda: chairing the Executive Committee: upholding the highest standards of integrity and delivery of the Groups strategy in conjunction with governance practices throughout the Group: facilitating constructive relationships between development of fundraising initiatives: Directors: global investor relations: reviewing the induction and training needs of the Directors: oversight of the development of top talent throughout development of strategy and objectives for approval the Group.
by the Board: seeking new business opportunities: and ensuring communication and dialogue with T he ro le of t he S en ior Independent Director The S en io r In fide p en fide nt D irector p l ay s a key role in recommending to the Board annual budgets and achieving a balance between the Companys Executive delivery of the same: and Non-Executive Directors.
He is responsible for: optimising the Groups assets and management and providing a channel of communication between the allocation of resources: Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors: creating and maintaining a sound control environment: ensuring that the views of Non-Executive Directors implementing strategy and Group policies and are given due consideration: procedures: acting as a contact for shareholders who wish to raise c on ce rn s w hich th e norm a l ch an n els o f communication with various stakeholders: communication through the Executive Chairman and providing leadership to the senior management team and nurturing the talent pool: and acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: and managing ESG issues in conjunction with the meeting with the Non-Executive Directors at least Sustainability Committee.
once a year to appraise the Executive Chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
The role of the Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for managements performance against objectives.
The Companys Non-Executive Directors have a wealth of knowledge and experience between them in a diverse range of sectors, enabling them to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance and resources which are vital to the success of the Group.
80 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance framework The relationship between the shareholders, the Board, Board Committees and management committees and the reporting structure, as shown below, forms the backbone of the Groups Corporate Governance framework.
Shareholders Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Finance Standing Executive Chief Executive Committee Committee D elegation of authority performance of the Group.
The Executive Committee The role of the Board Committees therefore has a key role in putting the Boards plans and The Board delegates certain responsibilities to Board Mehta, keeps the Board informed of the Executive reference.
The main Board Committees are the Audit, Committees activities through his standing reports Nominations, Remuneration and Sustainability to the Board.
The Finance Standing Committee All of the committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance Committee to which authority is delegated by the Board of external advisers at their meetings and to seek for approval of certain matters such as routine bank and information from any employee of the Company in order to perform their duties.
Under the terms of reference of each at least two Directors and a member of senior management.
of the Committees only the members of each committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, Standing Committee meetings to the Board at the other Directors, management and advisers may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Standing Committee meetings are reviewed by the Board.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees Details of the membership, terms of reference and attendance at meetings of the Audit, Nominations, to the Sustainability Committee.
The full terms of Remuneration and Sustainability Committees are given reference of the Committees are available on the in their respective reports on pages 87 to 105.
com or by request to the Company Secretary.
The Board has an established procedure for the disclosure The Executive Committee of interests and other related matters in line with published The Executive Committee acts as a conduit between guidance and the Companies Act 2006.
Each Director must management and the Board and during the year ended changes to the Board which are noted at each Board meeting.
The Board considers and authorises potential or not participate in the discussion or vote on the matter in members of the Executive Committee.
during the year under review.
Related party transactions, The Executive Committee meets monthly and is which include those in respect of any Director, are disclosed responsible for implementing strategic plans formulated in Note 38 on page 170. by the Board, allocating resources in line with delegated 81 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Corporate Governance Report continued During the year under review, the Board reviewed the Relationship Agreement A t the tim e o f the C ompa ny s Li sti ng i n 200 3, i t e nt ered role at Ashurst LLP.
The fees paid to Ashurst LLP during the into a relationship agreement with Volcan, its majority year amounted to US$0.7 million and as the value of the shareholder, to regulate the ongoing relationship between expenditure incurred was determined to be immaterial and them.
A new relationship agreement was entered into in Mr Green was not directly involved in advising the Group, of w hic h a r e t he sam e a s t h at e n tered i nto on L is tin g b u t accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
updated for legal and regulatory requirements where appropriate.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Board independence Agreement is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on In accordance with the Code, the Board is committed to business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal family and ensuring that at least half the Board, excluding the their associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship Chairman, comprise of independent Non-Executive Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee Directors.
It undertakes an evaluation of each Directors will at all times consist of a majority of Directors who are independence on appointment, annually prior to independent of Volcan and the Agarwal family.
Whilst the recommending their re-election by shareholders and Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times when any Directors circumstances change and warrant comprise solely of Non-Executive Directors, Volcan is a re-evaluation.
entitled to nominate for appointment as Director such number of persons as is one less than the number of During the year, the Board considered the independence Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal fa mi ly a n d t he ir a ssocia tes.
Th e B oard c o ns iders thes e August 2012.
Mr Green was a partner at Ashurst LLP, a to be adequate safeguards in that Directors who are in depend e nt o f Volc an mak e u p a t l e ast h alf of t he Bo ard i n to provide legal advice on various matters.
As Mr Green was accordance with Provision B.
1.2 of the Code and Vedantas the head of Ashursts Asian practice in Hong Kong and had ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected by no involvement in advising the Group over the last four the Relationship Agreement.
years, the Board concluded that he was independent of character and judgement on appointment and remains so.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing matters ar ising in r e la tion to the Rel at ion sh ip Agre e me n t a nd the UK legal and regulatory environment and corporate related party transactions on behalf of the Board.
There governance that serve to strengthen the Board.
were no such matters considered during the year.
Three of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, Messrs Directors commitment Naresh Chandra, Aman Mehta and Euan Macdonald, have served on the Board for over six years and they were therefore subject to a particularly rigorous review of their average the Directors are expected to spend at least 20 independence.
Mr Naresh Chandra and Mr Aman Mehta also days per year on the Companys business, with greater time serve as Non-Executive Directors on the Board of Cairn commitment during periods of heightened strategic and co m m erc ia l a ct ivity.
T he e xpect ed t im e c om m it ment o f t he and that each of the Non-Executive Directors in question Companys Non-Executive Directors is set out in their actively contributed to Board deliberations and provided letters of appointment.
Directors are required to disclose robust challenge to management during the year.
their other time commitments and seek the agreement of th e E xecut ive Cha irm a n p ri or to ac ce pt in g a ny a dditional their directorships at Cairn India Limited.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that the tenure of Mr Chandra, Mr Mehta Directors letters of appointment are available on request to th e Co m pa ny S ecretar y. exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
Operation of the Board The Board meets on a regular basis and met formally on si x occas io ns du ri ng t h e year.
As w el l as fo rmal m e etings, w rit te n resolu tions a re p assed w it h t he a ppro va l of the Euan Macdonald having previously held senior management whole Board on routine matters as required in order to positions within subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc, which acted as the joint global bookrunner and codiscussions take place between the Directors on a variety ordinator for the Companys Listing in 2003.
As they retired of topics throughout the year.
During the year, the from their respective roles over a decade ago and had no Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without involvement with Vedanta prior to their appointment, the the Executive Directors present.
Board remains of the view that they are independent and T he Executive Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Board re ce iv es a ccura te, timely an d c lear info rm ation o n a ll that all of the current Non-Executive Directors are relevant matters in order to make informed decisions and independent and free from any relationship or discharge its duties.
Directors are provided with regular independent judgement.
within which it operates and the overall economic 82 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board also routinely receives before each Board Directors induction, training and development The Bo ard is c om m it te d t o t he ong oi ng pro fes si on al performance, ongoing projects, fundraising initiatives, development of all of the Directors.
On appointment to the activities of the Board Committees and investor relations, Board, each Director undergoes a comprehensive induction with presentations and verbal updates given by the programme which is tailored to their individual needs but Executive Directors and senior management at Board is intended to provide an introduction to the Groups meetings as appropriate.
The independent Non-Executive operations and the challenges and risks faced.
During Directors are expected to provide objective and constructive challenge to management.
programme consisting of meetings with and presentations from senior management, meetings with the NonExecutive Directors and the external auditor and a visit Board activities during the year to the Groups Hindustan Zinc Limited operations at SK The Boards agenda during the year included the matters and Dariba mines.
He also received induction materials in the agreed annual work plan in addition to ad hoc including the Companys Articles of Association, Board developments arising from the external environment.
The terms of reference, Share Dealing Code, Cairn India main items of business considered by the Board during the Prospectus, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Vedanta year included: Values and an update on the implementation of the Antiparticipating in strategic discussions and reviewing Bribery policy across the Group.
In addition, the Company the Groups strategic direction: has supported his enrolment in the INSEAD International reviewing the progress of the Groups restructuring Directors Programme to develop his knowledge and plans: understanding of the role.
monitoring the operational performance of the Group against the Business Plan through production updates The Directors have access to the advice and services of the from the CEO and Heads of the operating subsidiaries: Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board through compliance: the Chairman on governance matters.
The Directors also reviewing the composition of the Board and approving have access to the Companys professional advisers whom the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors: they can consult where necessary for the discharge of reviewing and approving the Boards terms of reference their duties.
During the year, the Directors received and the matters reserved for Board approval: legal and regulatory updates on corporate governance reviewing and approving the Companys Preliminary developments.
A site visit to the Groups operations at SK and Dariba mines was also arranged for all of the Report and Accounts, Half Year Report and Annual General Meeting arrangements: better understanding of operations that will aid their approving the acquisition of the Government of Indias discussions with management on an ongoing basis.
minority shareholding in Hindustan Zinc Limited and Bharat Aluminium Company Limited: Board evaluation receiving sustainability training and monitoring issues The Board undertakes an annual review of its own and the progress made on embedding sustainability within the Group: Directors in order to assess its performance and improve reviewing project proposals and approving Group capital expenditure in excess of applicable thresholds: 2012 Board evaluation, a site visit to some of the Groups reviewing the Group Risk Matrix and Policy and operations was arranged and training on sustainability receiving a report from the Audit Committee on the issues was provided to the Board to enable them to better hold Managements performance in this area to account.
systems: The composition of the Board was another key area receiving reports from each of the Board Committees: approving the Group Business Plan for the year ahead: Executive Directors have been appointed to the Companys reviewing the results of annual performance evaluation Board to ensure that there remains an appropriate balance of the Board and its Committees: of skills and experience on the Board.
declaring the interim dividend and recommending the The 2013 annual evaluation process was led by the Executive receiving regular updates on corporate governance Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
The and other regulatory developments: review consisted of detailed questionnaires tailored to the receiving updates from Investor Relations in respect Board and each Committee, with a subsequent discussion of investor sentiment, share price performance and investor feedback: the evaluation, it was concluded that the Board and its monitoring the Groups Health and Safety record and initiatives: include Board composition, the reduction of debt, cost conducting the Annual General Meeting.
completion of the Group restructuring, acquisition of minority shareholdings in BALCO and HZL, dealing with the regulatory environment and proactive engagement with shareholders and other stakeholders.
83 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Corporate Governance Report continued The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the performance of the Chairman and provided him with feedback as part of the up to the Board are shown below: evaluation process.
They concluded that the Executive The Board Chairman continued to lead the Board well and played an important role in the development of the Groups strategy.
The Chairman reviewed the performance of the NonExecutive Directors and Executive Directors in their capacity as members of the Board and concluded that each commitment to their role.
The Audit Committee In accordance with the requirement of the Code, it is systems and reports to the Board.
intended that the 2014 evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors will be facilitated of risks and mitigating factors.
Considers and approves remedial actions where appropriate.
Re-election of Directors Reviews action plans put in place to mitigate risks.
In accordance with the Code, which requires that the Reviews internal audit plans.
annual election by shareholders, all of the Companys Directors will stand for re-election at the Companys 2013 audit function.
AGM with the exception of Mr Naresh Chandra who will Reviews whistleblower reports presented retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM by MAS.
following nine years of service on the Board.
Accountability Financial and business reporting Management Assurance Services MAS Internal Audit function Plans and carries out internal audits through arrangements with leading international accounting and consolidated at central level: Recommends improvements to the Groups internal Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis control system.
and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Reviews compliance with Group policies and Management accounts are reviewed by the Board at procedures.
Performance is monitored against key performance Reports to the Audit Committee.
Annual operational budgets are prepared by each operating subsidiary and consolidated into a Group Budget which is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Internal Audit function provides assurance in The Head of MAS attends all the Vedanta Executive accuracy for each operating company.
Committee and Audit Committee meetings.
The MAS External auditor assurance: team plays a key role in SOX compliance at Sterlite and its subsidiaries.
Review by the Audit Committee of: Risk management and internal control Year-end reporting plans.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk Legal, tax and accounting issues.
appetite and determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directors also have ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a robust system of internal control to liquidity and funding forecasts.
provide them with reasonable assurance that all Review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the information within the business and for external publication preliminary and half-year announcements, the Annual is adequate.
Authority for detailed monitoring of the Report and Accounts and any other announcements internal control and risk management framework is delegated to the Audit Committee which reports to the Board regularly within the remit of its role.
84 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Groups risk management framework plays a key role Groups ongoing litigation as well as for potential im pa ir ments a ri sin g f ro m th e c lo sure o f t he Grou p s monitoring of the various risks that could impact the operations at Lanjigargh and obtaining alternative sources delivery of the strategic objectives set by the Board.
The Risk Management Committee comprising of the Chief The internal control framework set out above complies w ith th e r e co mme ndatio ns o f th e Turn bu ll Guida n ce Management Assurance and Information Technology periodically reviews the changes in the nature and extent for Directors.
Due to the limitations inherent in any sy stem o f i nt ern al con tro l, t his sys te m is d esign ed t o m ee t t he G ro up s p a rticula r n eeds an d t h e r isk s t o wh ic h creating heightened awareness of the risk management it is exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
framework both at Group level and at operating subsidiary Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not level.
They play an important role in ensuring that the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
organisation sustains its risk management initiatives and that the Groups risk management framework matures and In line with best practice, the Board has reviewed the grows with the organisation.
internal control system in place during the year and up to the date of the approval of this report.
The Boards review A consistently applied methodology is used to identify includes the Audit Committees report on the risk matrix, risks to operations and projects at the operating subsidiary ris ks.
This r ev ie w e n su res t ha t t he inter na l contr ol s y st em control and risk management, to ensure that shareholders interests and the Companys assets are safeguarded.
result of the review, new procedures are put in place to st re ng th en c ontrols an d t h ese are i n t u rn revi ew ed at from environmental, social and governance matters.
Every risk has an owner who is responsible At the operational level specialists are brought in for ensuring that controls are put in place to mitigate where appropriate to review working practices and the risk.
During the course of its review of the system recommendations are implemented with the purpose of creating safe working environments.
been advised of any weaknesses or control failure that MAS has arrangements with leading international T he D ire ct ors s tatem en t of res po ns ib ilit ies f or pr ep ar ing auditor for carrying out internal audits within the Group.
the accounts may be found on page 111 and the auditors statement about their reporting responsibilities may be This element has been an important component of the found on page 112.
A statement on the Boards position overall process by which the Board obtains the assurance regarding the Group as a going concern is contained in th e Di rec tors R ep ort on p a ge 1 09. evaluated and managed.
The scope of work, authority and resources of MAS are regularly reviewed by the Audit Engagement with shareholders Committee.
The responsibilities of MAS include The Company values communication with its shareholders recommending improvements in the control environment and actively engages with them to listen to their views.
The and reviewing compliance with the Groups philosophy, Company undertakes an ongoing schedule of meetings policies and procedures.
The planning of internal audit is with institutional investors, which is managed by the approached from a risk perspective.
In preparing the Investor Relations team.
The main channels of internal audit plan, reference is made to the Groups risk communication with the investment community are matrix, inputs are sought from senior management, project through the Executive Chairman, Deputy Executive managers and Audit Committee members and reference is and S enior Vi ce Pr es id en t, Inves to r R el ati on s. T he Se ni or current economic and business environment.
Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet with major investors to discuss Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place any areas of concern that could not be resolved through the us ua l c ha n ne ls of inv es to r c om m u nicatio ns.
These procedures include a monthly meeting kept abreast of shareholder sentiment through periodic of the relevant management committee and quarterly detailed investor relations reports to the Board.
During the meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
Any year, the Company conducted meetings with its major shareh olders, in vestor r o ad sh ows an d t o ok i n five sto rs a nd Audit Committee Chairman may request MAS and or the bondholders on a site visit to all its major operations in India external auditor to focus their audit work and report to him over the course of one week to enable them to get a better un d ers ta nd in g of th e Group s o perat io ns.
At a Group level, the Committee and to the Audit Committee on a half-yearly basis.
During the year, the Audit Committee requested the 85 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Corporate Governance Report continued Annual General Meeting AGM The Board believes that voting by poll allows the views of all The Board welcomes the opportunity to communicate with shareholders to be taken into account regardless of the Companys shareholders at the AGM.
The 2013 AGM whether or not they can attend the meeting and sh ar eholde rs ar e a c tiv ely enc ou ra ge d t o r egiste r t heir the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report, votes electronically in advance of the meeting.
including the business to be considered at the meeting.
The Notice is sent out at least 20 business days before the AGM.
All of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Voting at the AGM on all resolutions is by poll on a one Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability share, one vote basis and the results of votes cast for, Committees, attend the AGM in order to answer questions against and abstentions are available on the Groups from shareholders.
Channels of communication Full year and half-year results announcements Released to the market.
shareholders, analysts and the media.
Production update interim management statements Released quarterly to the market followed by a conference call.
Annual Report and Accounts Available to all shareholders electronically, including interactively on the Companys website or in hard copy format on request.
Press releases Press releases are made to the market and media on key developments throughout the year.
Meetings with institutional investors, analysts and brokers Part of the investor relations programme initiated either by the Company or analysts and investors and managed at Group level through Ashwin Bajaj Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
Site visits to the Groups major operations are organised for analysts and brokers to enable them to better understand the Groups operations.
A wide range of information on the Company and its operations is available, including the Annual Report and Accounts, half-yearly results, Sustainability Report, market announcements, press releases, share price and links to subsidiary company websites.
Annual General Meeting Attended by all of the Directors and members of senior management.
As well as the formal business, shareholders can ask questions and talk to the Directors after the meeting.
Responses to shareholder and stakeholder communications There is ongoing dialogue with shareholders and other interested parties via email, letters and meetings arranged through the Investor Relations team.
On meets with stakeholder groups physically or via teleconference as required.
The Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that other price-sensitive information is announced to the market in a timely and considered manner.
86 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
