CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE Audit Committee Report This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Membership and attendance The Audit Committee comprises the following independent Non-Executive Directors and met on four occasions during the year.
Number of meetings Percentage attended attendance Aman Mehta, Chairman 4 4 100% Naresh Chandra 4 4 100% Euan Macdonald 4 4 100% As shown in Mr Mehtas biography on page 73, he has had extensive executive and non-executive experience with a Board therefore considers that Mr Mehta has recent and have had extensive prior senior management experience, either in large international organisations or government, and are The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its responsibility for maintaining and monitoring the integrity of Aman Mehta of the Groups system of risk management and internal controls Chairman, Audit Committee and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
receives high quality and detailed information from management and the internal and external auditor regularly, which is reviewed, discussed and challenged by the Committee as required.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees remit falls into four main areas: environment, and oversight of the external and internal audit processes.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: including its annual and half-year results: review the Groups internal controls and risk of these systems: make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of the external auditor: review the independence of the external auditor: review the scope of Internal Audit work: develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit: approve the remuneration of the external auditor: approve the formation of the Treasury Committee and review the minutes of its meetings: consider any matters arising in respect of the Relationship Agreement and related party transactions: audit function and consider its reports: review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns through its whistleblowing policy: monitor anti-bribery policies and procedures: and review reports from the audit committees of the Groups main subsidiary companies.
87 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Audit Committee Report continued The Groups main subsidiaries, a number of which are listed and are also available on request from the Company on stock exchanges in India, have their own audit Secretary.
committees in accordance with local corporate governance O pe ra tio n o f the A u dit C om m it tee from the subsidiaries that there are no material adverse The Committee meets at least four times a year based on internal audit function presents issues arising within the subsidiaries to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The MAS and Information Technology, other members of the external auditor partner, India attends the Audit Committee senior management team and the external auditor regularly meetings of both the main subsidiaries and the Group.
The attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The C ommitt ee m e ets at le as t t w ice d ur ing t he ye ar w ith normally also attend meetings of the Audit Committee to representatives from the external auditor without report on issues and facilitate discussions with the external management being present.
The Chairman of the Audit auditor and provide the Committee with insights on the Committee regularly reports to the Board on the Co mmitt ee s activ it ies.
T he C om mitte es a ge nd a i s b ased throughout the Group.
on its remit outlined below as appropriate to the stage in the reporting cycle.
The external auditor attends meetings The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website at www.
com of matters relating to the audit.
Audit Committee activities during the year The main areas covered by the Audit Committee during the year are summarised below.
Area of responsibility Activities Financial reporting Review and approval of Preliminary Announcement, It is one of the Committees key duties to monitor the process it reviews in detail the preliminary results such as impairment reviews and the integration of Cairn statements, the Annual Report and Accounts and HalfIndia within the Group.
The appropriateness of accounting polices Review and approval of the Half-Year Report.
used is considered, accounting judgements are reviewed Discussions on impairment reviews.
Si xmonthl y r ev ie w o f a ll p e nd ing tax i s su es.
Re view o f Audit Co m mittee R ep ort for th e A n nual Re port 84 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Six-monthly review of legal cases to ensure appropriate provisions are made and disclosed.
Review of the Going Concern basis for the preparation forecasts, monthly projections and funding requirements.
Internal controls and risk management Internal audit review including reviews of the internal Details of the Companys internal control and risk control framework, changes to the control gradings management processes are discussed on pages 84 to 85. within the Group and whistleblowing cases.
The Audit Committee reviews these processes and output Review of the Groups risk management infrastructure, from the regular review of risks carried out during the year by the Internal Audit function.
Review of the new regulatory changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The audit and external auditor Review of key audit issues and managements report.
Review of the independence of the external auditor and the provision for non-audit services.
Performance evaluation of the external auditor.
Consideration of the external audit fee.
Recommending the reappointment of the external auditor.
Review of the Management Representation Letter.
Review of the plans for the 2013 external audit of the Internal audit Review of the performance of the Internal Audit function Review of 201213 internal audit plan.
88 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE These policies are based on the APB Ethical Standards for The Group has in place a whistleblowing procedure that is Auditors and are regularly reviewed to ensure they are in regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.
This is a line with best practice.
These controls provide the Audit standalone policy which is summarised in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and supports the Groups aim Deloitte in their audit function will be maintained.
New of working to the highest ethical standards.
The policy requirements introduced by the Code expect companies to allows employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and all put their external audit contract out to tender at least once external stakeholders to raise any issues of concern in every 10 years.
The Audit Committee, with the assistance monitoring process.
The Audit Committee reviews any will therefore consider plans for putting the external audit reports made under the whistleblowing policy and ensures contract out to tender at the appropriate time in appropriate actions are taken if required.
Fraud and Bribery Act The Company is committed to the elimination of fraud, Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor with each suspected case thoroughly investigated and The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services concluded.
The Audit Committee reviews the actions taken by management in the elimination of fraudulent practices external auditor is prohibited from undertaking in order to and to promote ethical working practices.
safeguard their objectivity and independence.
This includes External auditor be subject to audit and the provision of internal audit The Audit Committee is pivotal in monitoring the performance of the external auditor and the Groups the external auditor is permitted to deliver to the Group.
relationship with the external auditor.
Details of how These include tax advisory services, and work on mergers, this is achieved are set out below: acquisitions and disposals.
Of the permitted services, any assignment in excess of US$100,000 may only be awarded The Audit Plan to the external auditor with the prior approval of the A detailed Audit Plan is prepared by the external auditor, Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan sets out the audit scope, key All other permitted non-audit services and the fees paid to th e e x te rn al audit or f o r n ona udit w ork a re re po rt ed t o working on the audit and the audit timetable.
The audit the Audit Committee on a six-monthly basis.
This report inclu d es s a fe gu ard s pu t into p lace to e nsure t ha t a ny audit plans for each component and geographical location.
threats to the independence of the external auditor are Each of the key audit risks and the external auditors mitigated.
The majority of non-audit services provided by response on how it will investigate these risks is the external auditor are tax advisory services, corporate considered by the Committee.
team within Deloitte LLP is used to carry out non-audit Auditor independence work and overseen by a separate partner.
An analysis The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the of non-audit fees can be found in Note 10 to the external auditors independence and assessing their Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Performance and reappointment of the external auditor external auditor.
The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been the Companys auditor since its Listing in 2003. auditor is reviewed annually taking into account the views The rotation of the audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte is required by their professions ethical standards senior members of Deloitte who are unrelated to the audit.
and there is also rotation of key members within the audit This activity also forms part of Deloittes own system of team.
Deloitte are required to rotate the audit partner quality control.
The performance evaluation was carried out u s ing a d etaile d q u es tionna ire, the re su lts o f which the last audit partner rotation was in 2010.
The audit were considered by the Audit Committee.
partner responsible for the audit of Indian subsidiaries was rotated in 2012.
A key part of ensuring the independence of the external performance during the year, the Audit Committee has auditor is to have in place robust policies concerning recommended to the Board that the existing auditor, Deloit te, be r ea pp oi nte d a s t he C ompa ny s exte rn al a ud it or has in place policies on: and an ordinary resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
employment of former employees of the external There are no contractual obligations that restrict the auditor: and Audit Committees choice of auditor.
appointment of the external auditor for non-audit services.
89 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Audit Committee Report continued The year ahead The coming year will be a year of change in the regulatory for the content and processes relating to Going Concern statements are expected to be amended following the Sharman enquiry.
In addition, there will be new reporting requirements for audit committees introduced by the Code and regulatory changes to the way that auditors report.
The Audit Committee will be evaluating these changes to ensure they are implemented within the requisite timescales.
In addition, the Audit Committees objectives for the forthcoming year include: review of the Group framework in respect of new regulatory developments for implementation by the Group: Board debate on risk tolerance and appetite: and greater focus on risk management.
Performance evaluation of the Audit Committee The Committee undertook an annual evaluation of its assess its strengths and weaknesses.
The evaluation was carried out by means of a detailed questionnaire to all it was concluded that the Audit Committee continued to Audit Committee Report This Audit Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 15 May 2013.
Aman Mehta Chairman, Audit Committee 90 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
