CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Nominations Committee Report This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
Membership and attendance The Nominations Committee is comprised of the following Directors, and met on three occasions during the year.
Number of meetings Percentage attended attendance Anil Agarwal, Chairman 3 3 100% Naresh Chandra 3 3 100% Euan Macdonald 3 3 100% Aman Mehta 3 3 100% operation of the Board is a critical component for the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board to ensure the right mix of skills, experience, diversity and independence is present.
It also plays a key role in ensuring the development of talent within the Group.
Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are Anil Agarwal set out in its terms of reference which can be found on the Chairman, Nominations Committee Companys website at www.
com and are also available on request from the Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to: review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills and experience of its members and recommend changes to the composition that are deemed necessary: establish a policy in respect of diversity on the Board of diversity, including gender: consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the positions of the prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for appointments to the Board: identify suitable candidates for appointments to the Board and its Committees and consider the use of external advisers to facilitate the search for candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: and recommend to the Board whether to reappoint a Non-Executive Director either at the end of their term regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
The Committee will confer with Volcan in this respect under the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Operation of the Nominations Committee The Committee meets at least twice a year and more often where required.
Other Executive Directors and members of the senior management team may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee provides an update to the Board in respect of the Committees activities.
91 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
com Nominations Committee Report continued Nominations Committee activities during the year concerning representation of women on Boards.
Both the The focus this year has been on issues of diversity, Committee and Board have discussed at length the need succession planning and Board composition, due to the for refreshing of the Board and at the recommendation of Committees awareness of the tenure of its Non-Executive the Committee, two new Non-Executive Directors were Directors and the publication of the Davies Report appointed to the Board to address these issues.
The main areas of activity of the Nominations Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of responsibility Item Board composition and succession planning Reviewing the Board succession planning processes to ensure selection procedures incorporate the recommendations in the Davies Report.
Reviewing the skills, experience, knowledge and independence on the Board.
Reviewing and recommending the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors to strengthen the composition of the Companys Board.
Performance evaluation of the Committee Evaluation of the Committees performance.
Non-Executive Director independence Review of the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors prior to recommending their reappointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
In order to achieve our target for women on the Succession planning has been at the forefront of the Board, we ensure that women candidates are considered Committees considerations as a number of the Companys routinely as part of the recruitment process.
We also Non-Executive Directors have served on the Board for a actively encourage and monitor the progress of women number of years.
During the year, the Committee in senior positions throughout the Group.
As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I personally supported Non-Executive Director on the Companys Board to a workshop encouraging the empowerment of women strengthen the diversity of skills and experience on the professionals throughout our operations.
By supporting equal opportunities we will ensure that the pool of women of thought and experience on the Board, the Committee from which management can be drawn will increase.
recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr Deepak Parekh as a Non-Executive Director on the Companys The year ahead The Nominations Committee objectives for the coming election by shareholders at the Companys 2013 AGM.
year are: review of the skills, experience, diversity and Diversity independence on the Board and its Committees: The Board supports the importance of having diversity of review plans for nurturing talent and improving the thought and representation on its Board and it is one of the gender balance within the Group: and Nominations Committees tasks to ensure this is achieved.
succession planning for senior management.
In terms of skill sets, Board members have a wide range of Performance evaluation of the Nominations Committee and banking to diplomacy and law.
In terms of gender, the The Committee undertook an annual evaluation of its Company has an aspirational target of achieving a minimum 25% of women on the Board by 2015.
We acknowledge that assess its strengths and identify areas for future focus.
at present there are no women on our Board and addressing The evaluation was undertaken by means of a detailed the gender balance to meet the target on the Board has questionnaire to all members of the Board and the been and will continue to remain a top priority for the Committee.
It is essential to overcome the reasons for lack of female representation to date.
These have included the fact that Vedanta operates within a traditionally maleNominations Committee Report This Nominations Committee Report was reviewed and constraints and the remote geographical location of some approved by the Board on 15 May 2013. of our operations, we face a number of challenges in addressing the gender balance within the Group.
Women currently comprise 8% of the overall employee population Anil Agarwal within the Group whereas the percentage of female Chairman, Nominations Committee representation across the Groups professional population 92 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
