61 corporate governance Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee continued to focus on monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and also advised the Board on the application of recently introduced reporting and governance requirements, including whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable was reinforced by regular meetings with relevant Committee Members Financial Reporting executives.
I reported on the outcome of our Jeff Hewitt Committee Chairman In relation to the year under review, we meetings to the Board and all members of the Nelda Connors discharged our primary responsibility to review Board received the agenda, papers and minutes Jane Hinkley the integrity of the half year and annual financial of the meetings.
statements with management and the external The Audit Committee auditor.
This included assessing: Roles and Responsibilities The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent Non-executive Directors of the The quality, acceptability and consistency of The primary roles and responsibilities of the Company.
The Members bring a wide range the accounting policies and practices Committee remained the same as in 2012, with of financial and commercial expertise to the the addition that in 2013 the Committee advised The clarity and consistency of the disclosures, Committees deliberations.
I continued to be the Board on whether it believed the Annual including compliance with relevant financial the Committee Chairman.
I am a qualified Report and Accounts taken as a whole to be fair, reporting standards and other reporting accountant and have the required recent and balanced and understandable.
Jane Hinkley The Committee operates under formal terms of Significant issues where judgements have joined at the time of the demerger of Cookson reference which were reviewed and updated been made that are material to the reporting Group and Nelda Connors joined the Committee during the year and approved by the Board.
The or where discussions have taken place in March 2013: both Nelda and Jane have terms of reference are available on the Groups with the external auditor in arriving at the brought a fresh perspective to the Committees website www.
Within these terms judgement or estimate activities.
Members biographies are on page the Committee and its individual members are 51.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the At the request of the Board, whether the empowered to obtain outside legal or other Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts taken as a independent professional advice at the cost of Meetings whole is fair, balanced and understandable the Company.
Such powers were not required The Committee met four times during the year.
taking into consideration all the information during the year.
The Committee may also secure We continue to operate in an inclusive manner.
the attendance at its meetings of any employee Hence, the Board Chairman, non-independent or other parties with relevant experience and Non-executive Director, Chief Executive, Chief expertise should it be considered necessary.
Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Activities in 2013 Head of Internal Audit and KPMG were invited In 2013 we particularly focused on the to each meeting.
Other management executives requirements arising from guidance and were invited to attend as appropriate.
This regulation relating to financial reporting, and openness supported the quality and transparency in particular on changes to narrative reporting.
of the Committees work and the communication I and the other members of the Committee of its deliberations with the Board, executives believe that we received sufficient, relevant and and auditors.
The Committee also met privately reliable information from management and with the external auditor KPMG and the Head the external auditor, to enable us to discharge of Internal Audit without any executives being our responsibilities.
Rather than reporting our present, and I met informally with KPMG and meetings chronologically I will highlight the with the Head of Internal Audit between the areas of our focus.
scheduled meetings to discuss any emerging issues.
This avoidance of surprises approach www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee continued The Committee deliberated reports from the Disposal of Precious Metals.
The disposal provisions held was adjusted appropriately as Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial of the Precious Metals Processing division reflected in Note 35 to the accounts.
Given Controller that were well prepared and analysed in the year was completed and a number of that the trading of the Groups steel industry various alternatives as appropriate.
KPMG also warranties were given, for which reasonable customers was difficult during the year, delivered memoranda for the half-year and and prudent reserves have been established.
particular attention was paid again to year-end reporting their views on significant The Committee agreed the accounting the working capital reserves held against issues.
KPMG provided a summary for each treatment and the outstanding matters receivables and inventories to ensure that issue, including their assessment of the prudence on the disposal were completed within appropriate levels have been established.
considered the overall degree of prudence vAT Claim.
As noted in the Contingent The carrying value of goodwill and other applied this year and also in comparison with the Liability Note 37, the Precious Metals intangible assets, being some 555m and prior year.
Importantly, the Committee agreed Processing business in the UK was subject to 162m at year-end, respectively, was tested with KPMG that the judgements made were a Missing Trader VAT fraud claim by HMRC.
against the current economic backdrop and cautious, but not overly prudent, and consistent During the second half of the year this claim the Committee agreed that no impairment over time.
Consistency remained a critical failed and the prior year provision that had charge was required see Note 19. consideration, so that the trend in reported been made was substantially reversed within Pensions.
Given the complexities of performance is not distorted by differing Discontinued Operations.
The Committee was the pension accounting treatment and judgements on issues that span more than one regularly updated on progress and agreed assumptions described in Note 31 to the reporting period.
KPMG proposed no material the accounting treatment.
accounts, these were challenged as to their audit adjustments arising from their audit Significant ongoing topics considered were: appropriateness for the Groups major work, which provided additional comfort to the schemes.
Provisioning for income tax is an ongoing complex area The judgements made on each of the significant Significant Issues and Material where major judgements are made, for issues were considered and found to be Judgements example, on provisions relating to taxes that appropriate and acceptable by the Committee.
In discussing the significant issues and areas might arise from transfer pricing policies.
The of material judgement, I have distinguished The Committee assessed all information Committee agreed the overall tax provision between issues that were specific to the year available to it in considering the overall drafting of 45.0m, as reflected in the Group balance and ongoing topics that persist from year to of the Annual Report and the process by which sheet, after consideration with internal and year.
Both were and are important areas for the report was compiled and reviewed so as external experts.
the Committee to consider, but the ongoing to be able to provide its advice to the Board topics have been and are covered regularly in that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Other provisions.
The Committee the accounts with disclosures and are generally understandable.
The Committee noted that the considered the level of provisions established common topics across many companies.
understandable test is challenging given the in the context of all available internal and complexity of the accounting standards that Significant topics specific to the year: external advice, together with any existing have to be applied.
The level of provisions held Recognition of US deferred tax asset.
in respect of open litigation matters is an Internal Controls The recognition of 29.2m of deferred tax area of significant ongoing management The Committee considered the process by which assets as explained in Note 12 was a major judgement.
Provisioning for future potential management evaluated internal controls across judgement taken during the second half of costs associated with businesses disposed the Group.
The Head of Internal Audit provided the year and was arrived at after extensive of or closed or restructured is a further the Committee with a review and analysis of modelling, specifically of future profits in the area where ongoing long-term judgements the assurance provided by the controls and the United States.
The Group has additional tax are required.
Expert advice is taken on the testing of these controls.
The Committee agreed losses and other timing differences in the relevant areas, including litigation claims, that the review indicated a satisfactory control United States and elsewhere which have not environmental liabilities and warranty claims, environment.
been recognised, but recognition will be kept together with provisions in respect of indirect under review in future years as expectations taxation matters and the level of of future profits, and hence the prospects for utilising these losses, evolve.
This is a highly technical area where the Committee drew on the views of internal and external experts to agree the treatment.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 63 corporate governance The Group is made up of mainly small operating In 2013, 48 audit assignments were undertaken The audit report provided by KPMG on pages units in geographically diverse locations and so covering 30% of the business.
The Head of 89 and 90 of the accounts provides a summary segregation of duties and remote management Internal Audit reports directly to me and the of the scope, coverage and materiality levels oversight can give rise to fraud opportunities.
Committee reviewed progress against the plan applied by KPMG in the audit.
The Committee Over the years there have been limited and discussed recent reports from the Head of agreed as part of the audit planning based on instances of fraud, which had been detected Internal Audit at each of its meetings.
Where the forecast results of the year and a detailed and preventative actions taken.
The amounts control issues or other problems were flagged risk assessment, a materiality figure of 7.0m for involved were small.
The internal audit scope by the fieldwork the Committee ensured Group financial reporting purposes.
Importantly and coverage was reviewed again in light of appropriate and timely action by the responsible much lower levels of materiality are used in the such risks, and line management was further management, involving senior management as audit fieldwork on the individual businesses strengthened.
This year the external auditor necessary, with a follow-up review.
An internal in the Group and these lower figures drive the performed enhanced procedures around the survey of the quality and effectiveness of internal scope and depth of audit work.
Small operations Code of Conduct, the Code itself and the audit was undertaken and again the team were subject to statutory audit but were also process for embedding it across the Group.
scored highly on their professional approach.
subject to internal audit reviews based on risk The Committee found this further process The long-standing Head of Internal Audit retired assessments.
Any misstatements at or above useful.
Each year the General Managers and at the end of the year and a successor has been 0.4m are reported to the Committee.
There Finance Managers of the businesses self-certify recruited.
She will review and, as necessary, were no significant changes to the audit scope compliance with Group policies and regulations, further develop the effectiveness of the internal during the course of the audit.
The KPMG audit fee was reviewed in light of the After considering these various processes, the Risk Management audit work required and thence agreed by the Committee was able to provide its assurance to Risk management is inherent in the business Committee for recommendation to the Board.
the Board on the effectiveness of internal control planning processes of the Group and risk The Board approved the fee estimate, which within the Group.
registers were constructed and reviewed in is flat with 2012 for the Groups continuing each major business.
The Head of Internal operations.
The Committee also continued its monitoring Audit coordinated the accumulation of these and oversight of the procedures for the KPMG provided updates at the half year operational risks for consideration by the Group receipt, retention and treatment of complaints and running up to the year-end, including Executive Committee and then by the Board, by employees.
This is an independent and commentaries on significant issues and their who also input top-down strategic risks into the confidential service worldwide where assessment of prudence in the judgements made.
The Committee oversaw this process employees may register any concerns about any Private sessions were held with KPMG without and its members fully participated in the Board incorrect or irregular practices they perceive management being present covering reporting examination of risks and mitigating actions.
The very limited number and control issues in the context of the demerged particular, the Committee determined that the of complaints were followed up appropriately Group and the resourcing of the finance team.
principal risks and uncertainties as set out on and related to organisational grievances.
More specific matters discussed included pages 18 and 19 of the Strategic Report properly The effectiveness of these procedures will be the auditors assessment of managements reflect the outcome of this process.
reviewed further during 2014. identification of business risks and of the action External Audit taken by management in relation to them.
In Internal Audit The Committee and the Board is committed to these sessions KPMG confirmed that their work The Groups internal audit function operates the continued excellence of the external audit had not been constrained in any way and that on a global basis.
The Head of Internal Audit is process and this expectation is well understood they were able to exercise their appropriate responsible for the team of five professionally by management.
The effectiveness of the professional scepticism and challenge through qualified individuals located in the major external audit in the past year was tested by the audit process.
regional areas of the Groups activities.
As in reviewing the quality of issues and challenges previous years, the team carried out assignments raised by KPMG to the Committee and to in accordance with an annual internal audit plan management across the Group, supported by a approved by the Committee.
The plan is based quality review carried out by the Group Financial on assessed risks and aims to cover all locations Controller.
The effectiveness of the external on a three-year cycle as the minimum.
audit was deemed high by the Committee and management.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee continued During 2013, the non-audit fees amounted a possibility of an extension of a further ten External Auditor Independence to 0.2m, or 12% of the audit fee, primarily years if a competitive tender has taken place The Committee continued to operate safeguards relating to assurance services related to the at the ten year point, though these periods to ensure that the independence and review of the Companys interim financial could be shorter if determined by enabling objectivity of the external audit was and is not statements and taxation advice see Note 6 national legislation.
Importantly there are compromised, including: on page 102 of the Financial Statements.
This proposed transitional arrangements which, as Regular confirmation that the external showed a large reduction from 2012 where currently formulated, would require the Group to auditor is independent of the Company in its KPMG undertook significant work relating to the undertake a competitive tender within six years own professional judgement demerger.
The Committee also monitored fees of the proposed EU legislation coming into force.
Evaluating all the relationships between the paid to other accounting firms as part of the The Committee and the Board believe the external auditor and the Group, including review so as to determine where there might be Group is receiving a very good quality of audit those relating to the provision of nonany current or future conflicts of interest.
Consequently, the Board audit services to determine whether these External Auditor Reappointment intends that the Group will have a competitive impair, or appear to impair, the auditors The Committee is responsible for making tender process at the time of the next partner independence.
recommendations to the Board in relation to the rotation in 2016.
Meanwhile, demanding audit In accordance with established Group policy, appointment, reappointment and removal of the performance requirements will continue to be the external auditor was, and is, prohibited from external auditor.
In relation to the reappointment applied to KPMG.
By 2016 the requirements performing services where it: of the external auditor for 2014, the Committee arising out of what is currently still proposed considered various factors, but most importantly legislation will be much clearer.
As such, the May be required to audit its own work the demonstrated quality of the teams delivering Committee has recommended, and the Board Would participate in activities that would the audit, both locally and centrally, and in has agreed, that, subject to shareholder normally be undertaken by management particular the presence and capabilities of the approval, KPMG will be reappointed at the 2014 lead partner.
We also consider the overall quality AGM.
Should any shareholder wish to discuss Is remunerated through a success fee of the firms work as reflected in the reports of this approach and timing with me then I should structure the Audit Quality Review Team of the Financial be happy to do so.
Acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
Committee Evaluation Other than these, the policy does not impose The Committee is well aware that KPMG or its The Committees activities formed part of the an automatic prohibition on the external predecessor firms have had a long-standing evaluation of Board effectiveness performed in auditor undertaking non-audit work that is tenure as the auditor of Vesuvius and its the year.
Details of this approach are given on not, or is not perceived to be, in conflict with predecessors.
The services of KPMG were page 58. auditor independence, provided it has the retained during the demerger in 2012 as it On behalf of the Audit Committee skill, competence and integrity to carry out the represented the most efficient and cost-effective work in the best interests of the Group.
In the accounting firm to undertake the work and at coming year, the Committee will consider the that time the lead audit partner was changed in Jeff Hewitt implications of the draft EU legislation on further accordance with lead partner rotation regulatory Chairman, Audit Committee limiting non-audit work by the external auditor.
4 March 2014 The Groups existing policies will probably Given the tenure, the Committee goes to have to become more restrictive as a result of considerable lengths to determine that the audit the changes, but the Committees overriding by KPMG is of maintained high quality, with principle will continue to be that the quality of excellent staffing, tested by internal reviews by the external audit should not be compromised in management.
The Committee is conscious of any way by any other activity.
the proposals for audit firm rotation from the An annual budget for non-audit related fees FRC, the Competition Commission and the EU which management is proposing to pay to the Commission.
Our advice is that the proposed EU external auditor, is presented for pre-approval legislation though not yet finally formulated to the Committee.
Where the non-audit fee is will prevail, be mandatory and will come into likely to be in excess of 50,000, it must be force in the coming year.
This will require audit pre-approved by the Committee and where firm rotation after a maximum of ten years with appropriate, services are tendered prior to the awarding of work.
