65 corporate governance Nomination Committee During the year the Committee appointed a new Senior Independent Director and, in line with its primary responsibility, focused on Board succession planning ensuring that the Board is made up of individuals with the necessary skills, diversity and experience to lead the Company Committee Members The Committee and its members are also The majority of the Board was appointed only John McDonough Committee Chairman empowered to obtain outside legal or other recently.
However, the Committee continues Nelda Connors independent professional advice at the cost regularly to re-examine succession and the Christer Gardell of the Company in relation to its deliberations Boards balance of skills, experience and Jeff Hewitt which rights were not exercised during the year diversity.
Succession planning, led by the Jane Hinkley and to secure the attendance at its meetings Nomination Committee, forms an integral part of of any employee or other parties it considers the Boards annual strategy review.
Board Composition The Nomination Committee is made up of any Role and Responsibilities All Directors have served at a very senior level three of the Non-executive Directors.
During the The Nomination Committees foremost priorities in global organisations, have international year I continued as Chairman of the Committee, are to ensure that the Company has the best experience across a variety of industries, and though I would not act as Chairman when the possible leadership and maintains a clear plan most have spent a considerable amount of Committee is considering the appointment of for both Executive and Non-executive Director time resident outside the UK.
At present, two of my successor.
In this case, the Chairman would succession.
Its prime focus is therefore on the the seven Directors are women, and three are be an appropriate Non-executive Director.
In strength of the Board, for which appointments non-British citizens.
The Nomination Committee addition to the Directors named above, Jan are made on merit, against objective criteria, continues to believe that this diversity underpins Oosterveld and John Sussens were also members selecting the best candidate for the post.
The the successful operation of an effective Board.
of the Committee until their retirement from the Nomination Committee advises the Board on the It should be noted that in Lord Davies original Board at the AGM in June 2013.
The Company appointments, retirements and resignations from recommendation on Women on Boards, he stated Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
the Board and its Committees.
that listed companies in the FTSE 100 should aim Members biographies are set out on pages 50 for a minimum of 25% female board member and 51.
He also recommended During the year, the Committee considered Meetings that FTSE 350 companies should be setting their the appointment of a new Senior Independent The Committee meets as and when required, own, challenging targets and expected that, in Director to replace John Sussens who retired which it did twice during 2013.
Both meetings time, many would achieve a much higher figure from the Board at the 2013 AGM.
The were convened with all Non-executive Directors than this minimum.
We are pleased to report that Committee recommended to the Board that present together with the Chief Executive, who the Vesuvius Board has achieved this target.
an external candidate was not required to fill was invited to attend both meetings.
I reported this position as Jeff Hewitt was an outstanding the outcome of our meetings to the Board.
candidate for the role, given his wide experience Formal meetings are held to consider standing of Vesuvius and corporate governance.
However, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place, there is also During the year, as part of the annual corporate a significant level of ad hoc discussion between governance review, the Committee also reviewed members of the Committee.
the independence of the Board and the potential The Committee operates under formal terms of lengths of tenure of each of the independent reference which were reviewed and updated Non-executive Directors.
during the year and approved by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Nomination Committee continued Process for Board Appointments Senior Management Succession When considering Board appointments, the During the year, each of the Vesuvius Business Nomination Committee draws up a specification Units and head office functions submitted for the Director, taking into consideration the their succession plans in respect of senior balance of skills, knowledge and experience of executives to the Board for review.
The Board its existing members, the diversity of the Board, also actively seeks to meet with key executives the independence of continuing Board members throughout the Group in order to gain a greater and the ongoing requirements and anticipated understanding of the breadth and depth of strategic developments of the Group.
During 2014 this process process is then able to focus on appointing a will be augmented to include a series of candidate with a balance of skills that enhance presentations to the board by Business Unit and the Boards diversity.
For example, whilst functional Presidents and the senior managers most of the work for the appointment of Jane that work in their teams.
In this way members Hinkley and Nelda Connors was undertaken in of the Board and the Committee will be able to 2012, their appointments required global Chief adopt a more informed approach to executive Executive CFO experience, an understanding succession planning across the Group.
of executive compensation and knowledge of, On behalf of the Nomination Committee and experience in, project management, lean manufacturing and growing a business in Asia.
John McDonough CBE When considering Board appointments, the Chairman Committee utilises the services of search firms 4 March 2014 to identify appropriate candidates, ensuring that the search firm appointed does not have any other connection with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search assignments.
A long list of potential appointees will then be reviewed followed by the shortlisting of candidates for interview based upon the objective criteria identified at inception.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
The Committee then recommends a preferred candidate and the Directors not on the Committee meet the candidate.
Following this the Committee would make a formal recommendation to the Board on the appointment.
The preferred candidate would also be supported in undertaking their own due diligence on the Company and with its advisers.
