55 corporate governance Governance Report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company is 2014 as well as holding ad hoc committee Roles and Responsibilities of responsible for the Groups system of corporate meetings to consider non-routine business when the Board governance and is committed to maintaining required.
Ultimate responsibility for the management of high standards and to evolving governance the Group rests with the Board of Directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive arrangements to comply with emerging best The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and The division of responsibilities between the practice.
This report describes the Companys policy issues and is responsible for the Groups Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in corporate governance structure and explains long-term success.
It sets the Groups strategy, writing and was reviewed during the year as part how Vesuvius has applied the main principles oversees the allocation of resources and monitors of the Companys annual corporate governance of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued the performance of the Group in pursuit of this, review.
by the Financial Reporting Council the Code all within a framework of prudent and effective The interactions in the governance process are during the year ended 31 December 2013. control which enables risk to be assessed and are shown on the following schematic.
Throughout the year and up until the date of this managed.
report Vesuvius was in full compliance with the The Board requirements of the Code.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates certain matters to its committees.
It is anticipated that the Board will convene on seven scheduled occasions during Senior Independent Director Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman, an alternative contact to the Chairman and as a intermediary for other Non-executive Directors.
Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and recruitment process for his Chairman replacement, when required Provides leadership and guidance for the Board, promoting a high standard of corporate governance.
Non-executive Sets the Board agenda and manages meetings.
The Board Independent on appointment, he is the link between Directors the Executive and Non-executive Directors Exercise a strong, independent voice, Responsible for Group strategy, challenging and supporting risk management and policy issues.
Monitors the Groups Executive Directors.
Scrutinise performance against objectives and progress against the monitor reporting performance.
targets set Chief Executive Monitor and oversee financial risk and controls, determine Executive Develops strategy for review and approval of the Director remuneration and manage Board.
Directs, monitors and maintains the Board succession through their operational performance of the Company.
committee responsibilities Responsible for the application of Group policies and implementation of Group strategy.
Accountable to the Board for Group performance Company Secretary Advises the Chairman on governance, together with updates on regulatory and compliance matters.
Supports the Board agenda with clear information ow.
Acts as a link between the Board and its Committees and between NEDs and senior management Board Committees The principal governance committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Each committee has written terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year and agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys website www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report continued Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership Audit To monitor the integrity of financial reporting and to Jeff Hewitt All independent Non-executive assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Directors Groups internal controls and risk management systems Remuneration To determine the appropriate remuneration packages John Sussens up to the date of the All independent Non-executive for the Groups Chairman, Executive Directors, and 2013 AGM, and Jane Hinkley thereafter Directors Company Secretary, and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for other Senior Management Nomination To advise the Board on appointments, retirements and John McDonough, the Chairman except The Chairman and any three resignations from the Board and its committees and where considering his own succession in Non-executive Directors review succession planning for the Board which case the Committee is chaired by an appropriate Non-executive Director In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Share Schemes Committee, which operate in accordance with the delegation of authority agreed by the Board.
Committee Role Chair of Committee Membership Finance To approve specific funding and treasury-related matters John McDonough, the Chairman The Chairman, Chief Executive, in accordance with the Groups delegated authorities or Chief Financial Officer and as delegated by the Board Group Treasurer Share Schemes To facilitate the administration of the Companys share Any member Any two Directors or a Director schemes and the Company Secretary The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the three Business Unit Presidents, the President Refractories North Asia, the Vice President Human Resources, the Chief Technology Officer, the President Operations and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee met six times during 2013 and is scheduled to meet seven times during 2014.
Its meetings are held between the London head office and major operational sites.
Biographical details of the GEC members are set out on pages 52 and 53.
BOARD AnD COMMITTEE ATTEnDAnCE The attendance of Directors who served between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013, at the Board meetings and principal Committees of which they were a member held during this period, is shown in the table below.
The maximum number of meetings in the period during which the individual was a Board or Committee member is shown in brackets.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman John McDonough CBE 7 7 4 4 7 7 2 2 Executive Directors Franois Wanecq 7 7 Chris OShea 7 7 Non-executive Directors 1 Nelda Connors 6 6 3 4 5 6 1 1 Christer Gardell 7 7 - 2 2 Jeff Hewitt 7 7 4 4 7 7 2 2 1 Jane Hinkley 6 7 4 4 6 7 1 2 Jan Oosterveld 3 3 1 1 3 3 1 1 John Sussens 3 3 1 1 3 3 1 1 NOTE 1.
Jane Hinkley was unable to attend one day of meetings due to commitments made prior to joining the Board.
As noted in the Remuneration Report, Nelda Connors was delayed in travelling on one occasion due to adverse weather conditions in the US.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 57 corporate governance To the extent that Directors are unable to attend Capital which holds 21.02% of Vesuvius scheduled Board and Committee meetings scheduled meetings, or additional meetings issued ordinary share capital and is not and any additional meetings as required.
Each called on short notice, they will receive the considered to be independent.
He brings a Directors other significant commitments are papers in advance and relay their comments to wealth of commercial acumen to the Board.
The disclosed to the Board at the time of their the Chairman for communication at the meeting.
Chairman satisfied the independence criteria appointment and they are required to notify The Chairman will follow up after the meeting in on his appointment to the Board.
John Sussens the Board of any subsequent changes.
The relation to the decisions taken.
served as Senior Independent Director until his Company has reviewed the availability of the retirement at the 2013 AGM, when Jeff Hewitt Non-executive Directors and considers that each EFFECTIvEnESS was appointed to the role.
Biographical details of of them is able to, and in practice does, devote Board Composition the Directors are set out on pages 50 and 51. the necessary amount of time to the Companys The Board comprises seven Directors the business.
Non-executive Chairman, John McDonough CBE: Appointments to the Board the Chief Executive, Franois Wanecq: the Chief Recommendations for appointments to the Induction and Training Financial Officer, Chris OShea: and four NonBoard are made by the Nomination Committee.
A comprehensive induction programme is executive Directors, three of whom are deemed The Nomination Committee follows a formal, in place for new Directors, and was used in to be independent for the purposes of the UK rigorous and transparent procedure for the 2013 on the appointment of Nelda Connors.
Jeff Hewitt is the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This includes visits to manufacturing facilities, Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Board appointments are made on merit against meetings with key Group executives and Richard Malthouse served as Company Secretary objective criteria, selecting the best candidate introductions to the Companys principal external until 1 September 2013 when Henry Knowles for the post.
Non-executive appointees are also advisers, as appropriate.
Reference materials was appointed to the role.
required to demonstrate that they have sufficient are provided, including information about time to devote to the role.
The Nomination the Board, its committees, Directors duties, The Board seeks to ensure that both it, and Committee is responsible for reviewing Board procedures for dealing in the Companys shares its committees, have the appropriate range of succession to ensure that plans are in place for and other regulatory and governance matters, diversity, skills, experience, independence and the appropriate refreshing and orderly succession and Directors are advised of their legal and knowledge of the Company to enable them of Board directorships.
Further information is other duties and obligations as Directors of a to discharge their duties and responsibilities set out in the Nomination Committee report on listed company.
The Company Secretary ensures effectively.
The Boards overall skills and page 65. that after a certain period of appointment, new experience, as well as Non-executive Director Directors feel that they have received sufficient independence, were reviewed during the year Time Commitment of the Chairman induction information, and supplies support for as part of the annual corporate governance and the non-executive Directors any subsequent requirements.
review, and Board composition formed part The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each of the Boards evaluation process.
The Board have a letter of appointment which sets out the The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, considers its diversity, size and composition terms and conditions of their directorship.
An continues to ensure that there is an ongoing to be appropriate for the requirements of the indication of the anticipated time commitment process to review training and development business.
The Non-executive Directors are drawn is provided in any recruitment role specification, needs.
Directors are provided with details of from different nationalities and have significant and each Directors letter of appointment seminars and training courses relevant to their experience of managing complex global provides details of the meetings that they are role.
They are encouraged to attend these as businesses.
expected to attend, along with the need to they consider appropriate and are supported accommodate travelling time particularly for by the Company in doing so.
Where a general Committee composition is set out in the relevant overseas trips.
Non-executive Directors are training need is identified, in-house training committee reports.
No one other than Committee required to set aside sufficient time to prepare can be provided to the entire Board.
Regulatory Chairs and members of the Committees are for meetings, and regularly to refresh and update updates are provided as a standing item at entitled to participate in meetings of the Audit, their skills and knowledge.
In signing their letters each Board meeting in a Secretarys Report.
In Nomination and Remuneration Committees, but of appointment, all Non-executive Directors 2013, given the proximity of the demerger, no others may attend by invitation.
have consequently agreed to commit sufficient formal externally moderated update on corporate The Board considers that a majority of the Board, time for the proper performance of their matters was undertaken.
However, technical excluding the Non-executive Chairman namely responsibilities, acknowledging that this will updates were delivered by certain of the Nelda Connors, Jeff Hewitt, and Jane Hinkley, are vary from year to year depending on the Groups Companys advisers and focused predominantly independent of management and free from any activities.
Directors are expected to attend all on changes to narrative reporting.
business or other relationship which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
Christer Gardell is Managing Partner of Cevian www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report continued The overall outcome of the evaluation was his her respective role.
Accordingly, the Board Information and Support that the Board and its individual Directors recommends that shareholders approve the The Board ensures that it receives, in a are performing effectively, that the Board is resolutions to be proposed at the 2014 AGM timely manner, information of an appropriate well-supported in terms of information flow relating to the re-election of Directors.
quality to enable it to adequately discharge and presents an open forum for debate.
Papers are provided to the Directors Conflicts of Interest primary areas identified for future focus were Directors in advance of the relevant Board or The Board has established a formal system to succession planning, Board composition, and Committee meeting to enable them to make authorise situations where a Director has an ensuring that the Board maintained its focus on further enquiries about any matters prior to the interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, strategy, particularly in the light of the increasing meeting should they so wish.
This also allows with the interests of the Company Situational and evolving governance and compliance Directors who are unable to attend to submit Conflicts.
Directors declare Situational Conflicts obligations placed on plc boards.
As a result of views in advance of the meeting.
so that they can be considered for authorisation the evaluation, Board and senior management Outside of the Board documents the Chief by the non-conflicted Directors.
In considering a succession will be addressed specifically at the Executive provides written updates on important Situational Conflict these Directors act in the way Group strategy review to be held in July and a Company business issues together with certain they consider would be most likely to promote series of set piece business unit and functional financial and management information to the success of the Company, and may impose presentations will be made to the Board to keep Directors updated.
Regular updates on limits or conditions when giving authorisation ensure that Group-wide strategy is being shareholder issues and discussions are also or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
understood and interpreted in the Business Units provided to the Board, who also receive copies The Company Secretary records the consideration and that direct feedback on strategy can come of significant analysts notes issued on the of any conflict and records any authorisations to the Board.
Directors have access to a secure granted.
The Board believes that the systems it online portal used for the distribution of all has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts information.
Appointment and Replacement of continues to operate effectively.
No Situational Directors Conflicts were brought to the Board for All Directors have access to the advice and The Board membership should not be fewer than authorisation during the year under review.
services of the Company Secretary.
There is also five nor more than 15, save that the Company ACCOUnTABILITY an agreed procedure in place for Directors, in the may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time The Audit Committee furtherance of their duties, to take independent vary this minimum and or maximum number of The members of the Audit Committee are set legal advice at the Companys expense.
Directors may be appointed by ordinary out on page 61.
The Audit Committee report Performance Evaluation resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed which describes the Audit Committees work In accordance with the provisions of the by the Board must retire from office at the first in discharging its responsibilities, is set out on Code, the Chairman led a formal and rigorous Annual General Meeting AGM after his her pages 61 to 64. evaluation of the Boards performance and appointment.
A Director who retires in this way effectiveness during the year, together with an is then eligible for reappointment.
The Board may evaluation of the performance of the Audit and appoint one or more Directors to any executive Remuneration committees and an individual office, on such terms and for such period as it performance review of each of the Board thinks fit and it can also terminate or vary such members.
In addition, the Senior Independent an appointment at any time.
The Articles specify Director led an evaluation of the performance that at every AGM, any Director who has been of the Chairman.
The evaluation was externally appointed by the Vesuvius Board since the last moderated by Lintstock, who collated responses AGM and any Director who held office at the from participants and presented an analysis of time of the two preceding AGMs and who did the results to the Chairman.
Lintstock examined not retire at either of them, shall retire from the balance of individual skills and experience, office.
Any Director who retires at an AGM may independence, and knowledge of the Company offer himself for reappointment.
In accordance amongst the Directors, together with Board with the requirements of the Code, all the diversity including gender and Board interaction Directors will offer themselves for re-election and effectiveness as part of the evaluation.
The biographical details Lintstocks analysis was circulated to the Board of each of the Directors, including details of and formed the basis of one-on-one discussions their other directorships and relevant skills and conducted by the Chairman with each member experience, are set out on pages 50 to 51 and in of the Board and the Company Secretary.
The Board believes that conversations also covered the output from the each of the Directors standing for re-election individual Director reviews.
is effective and demonstrates commitment to www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 59 corporate governance its assets.
No system of internal control can The Audit Committee assists the Board in Risk Management and Internal provide absolute assurance against material reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Control misstatement or loss.
The Groups system system of internal control, including financial, The Board has overall responsibility for is designed to provide the Directors with operational and compliance controls, and risk establishing and maintaining a system of reasonable assurance that problems are management systems.
The key features of the risk management and internal control, and identified on a timely basis and are dealt with Groups system of internal control are set out for reviewing its effectiveness.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard Process Elements Strategy and comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting process financial reporting annual budget approved by the Board monthly operating financial information reported against budget key trends and variances analysed and action taken as appropriate Vesuvius GAAP accounting policies and procedures formulated and disseminated to all Group operations cover the application of accounting standards, the maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures Operational operating companies and corporate offices maintain internal controls and procedures appropriate to their structure and controls business environment compliance with Group policies on items such as authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions and the management of intellectual property common accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting software used in financial reporting and consolidation significant financing and investment decisions reserved to the Board, including guarantees and indemnities Board monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk Risk assessment continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks and management risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business reports made to Board on how those risks are managed each major Group Business Unit produces a risk map to identify key risks, assess the likelihood of risks occurring, their impact and mitigating actions Board reviews insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group Board notified of major issues and makes an annual assessment of how risks have changed As part of the Boards process for reviewing the risk management procedures conducted by senior Reviewing the Effectiveness of effectiveness of the system of internal control, management.
This included a self-certification Internal Contol iit delegates the following matters to the Audit exercise by which senior financial, operational and The internal control system is monitored and Committee to be carried out during the year: functional management throughout the Group supported by the Groups internal audit function, certified the effectiveness of the system of internal which conducts reviews of Vesuvius businesses Review of external and internal audit work control within the business area for which they and reports objectively both on the adequacy and plans were responsible, together with their compliance effectiveness of the system of internal control Consideration of reports from management, throughout the year with the Groups policies and and those businesses compliance with Group internal audit and external audit on the procedures.
The Audit Committee system of internal control and any significant receives reports from the Group Head of Internal Consequently, in accordance with the provisions control weaknesses Audit and reports to the Board on the results of of the Code, the Directors confirm that they its review.
Discussions with management on the actions have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups taken on problem areas identified by Board system of internal control and that the necessary members, in internal audit reports or in actions have been taken to remedy any control external audit management letters weaknesses identified during the year.
Since the date of this review there have been no significant At the year-end, following the review by the Audit changes in internal controls or other matters Committee of internal financial controls and of which could significantly affect them.
the processes covering other controls, the Board evaluated the results of the internal control and www.
com 22904-04 10-02-2014 Proof 3 Vesuvius plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report continued The Company reports its financial results to Executive Compensation and Risk shareholders twice a year, with the publication All of the independent Non-executive Directors of its Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Reports.
It serve on both the Audit and Remuneration also issues two further trading updates each year Committees.
They therefore bring their with the publication of its Interim Management experience and knowledge of the activities of Statements.
In conjunction with these each committee to bear when considering the announcements, presentations or teleconference critical judgements of the other.
This means calls are held with institutional investors and that the Directors are in a position to consider analysts.
Recordings of these will be made carefully the impact of incentive arrangements available on the Groups website www.
on the Groups risk profile and to ensure the com along with hard copies of any presentation Groups remuneration policy and programme is materials issued.
structured so as to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite of the Company.
Share Capital and voting Disclosure of the information regarding share capital, the authorisation received by Directors at the AGM regarding the issue of shares and the authority to purchase own shares, is contained on pages 85 and 86 of the Directors Report.
There are no restrictions on voting contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Further details are set out in the Directors Report on page 87.
Relations with Shareholders The Board is committed to communicating with shareholders and stakeholders in a clear and open manner, and seeks to ensure effective engagement through the Companys regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The Company undertakes an ongoing programme of meetings with investors, which is managed by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The majority of meetings with investors are led by them.
However, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Committee Chairs remain open for discussion with shareholders on matters under their areas of responsibility, either through contacting the Company Secretary or directly at the AGM.
All Directors are expected to attend the Companys AGM, providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
