Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance Corporate governance The Board recognises the importance of sound governance and its role in achieving sustainable growth.
Maintaining and reviewing governance structures is an essential part of its programme of business.
It remains mindful of the Statement of compliance need to observe the duties owed by Directors A detailed review has been performed of the In summary in law, including promoting the sustainable Companys compliance with the Code issued success of the Company, not only for our by the Financial Reporting Council FRC The Board confirms that the Company shareholders, but also for our stakeholders, inSeptember 2012.
We have been mindful has complied with the Code except whichincludes our employees, suppliers, to ensure that we comply not just with the forthe provision relating to the customers and wider community.
principles of the Code but also the spirit of re-tendering of the external audit the Code.
In assessing our approach, we The Chairman is responsible for the leadership everytenyears.
have had regard to the FRC guidance on of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness Board Effectiveness March 2011 and inallaspects of its role.
The Chairman is also The Board is focused on diversity and theFRC guidance on Audit Committees responsible for creating the right board our current female representation on September 2012. dynamic and for promoting a culture of the Board is 25%.
Our Chief Executives openness and debate, in addition to ensuring This report, together with the Directors Committee the EMT also has 25% constructive and productive relations between Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 61, female representation.
describes how the main principles of good TheChairman is also anambassador governance have been applied throughout Satisfactory engagement with fortheCompany to shareholders and our business.
shareholders, both institutional and widerstakeholders.
private, is a key objective of the Board.
Except as referred to below, the Company The Board is committed to the regularity The executive Directors are responsible has complied with all relevant provisions of investor days to keep the market up forthe running of the business.
The ofthe Code throughout the year ended to date with our strategy and ambitions.
non-executive Directors are responsible 30September 2013 and from that date The AGM provides private investors an forexercising independent and objective upto the date of publication of this opportunity to meet informally with the judgement in respect of Board decisions, AnnualReport.
developing corporate strategy with senior The Company has not complied in full with part management and for scrutinising and of Code provision C. 3.7, which provides that A robust internal Board and Committee constructively challenging the actions FTSE 350 companies should put the external evaluation process was carried out ofsenior management.
audit contract out to tender at least every ten during the year.
In 2014 an externally The offices of the Chairman and the Chief years.
As noted on page 47, KPMG has been facilitated evaluation is due to take Executive are separate and clearly distinct.
our auditor since the MBO in 1993.
Consistent place in line with corporate governance The division of their responsibilities is set out with good governance principles, we review best practice.
in writing and has been approved by the independence and objectivity annually as part Board.
There is no Deputy Chairman.
of our annual review of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In addition, for the 2013 Our Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr, financial year, we have a new audit partner acts as a sounding board to the Chairman along with a number of new audit team and serves as an intermediary for other members.
Further information on this is Directors when necessary.
He is also available contained in theAudit Committee Report toshareholders should they have any concerns, onpage 46. where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
He is also responsible for leading Leadership the review of the Chairmans performance, as The Role of the Board part of the annual Board evaluation and this is The role of the Board is to provide discussed further on page 44.
The Company entrepreneurial leadership and the Directors Secretary reports to the Chairman on are collectively responsible for the long-term governance matters and is responsible success of the Company.
The Board also forkeeping the Board up to date on all actsas custodian of the Companys values and legislative, regulatory and governance matters.
of its long-term vision and provides strategic She is also responsible for supporting the direction and guidance for the Company.
The Chairman and other Board members as For more information visit names, biographical details and significant necessary, including the management of Board time commitments of the members of the www.
com and Committee meetings and their evaluation, Board are set out on pages38 and 39. advising on Directors duties and facilitating In discharging its responsibilities, the Board appropriate, high quality and timely also seeks to set, promote and demonstrate information flows between the business adherence to our values and ethical standards andthe Board.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 41 Corporate governance continued Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Chief Risk Disclosure Audit Currency Nominations Executives Remuneration Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee EMT VPS Invibio Internal Audit External Audit BusinessUnit BusinessUnit changes to the Companys capital structure: the Risk Management Committee: Leadership continued Operation of the Board approval of the dividend policy: the Currency Committee: and The Board is responsible for the Groups major contracts and capital expenditure: the Disclosure Committee.
strategic development, monitoring achievement of its business objectives, oversight of risk and major investments: and The Nominations, Audit and Remuneration maintaining a system ofeffective corporate Committee reports are described on pages disposals and entering into strategic governance, which includes the responsibility 46 to 61 and the Risk Management, Currency alliances, joint ventures and partnerships.
for health, safety, environmental, social and and Disclosure Committees on page 43. ethical matters.
The Board discharges these The Board delegates day to day and business These Committees operate under clearly responsibilities through scheduled meetings, management control to the executive Directors, defined terms of reference and report to which include regular reviews of financial who in turn delegate as appropriate to theBoard at each Board meeting via the performance and critical business issues and senior management.
The terms of reference benchmarking performance against our are reviewed at least annually, with any Board committees strategic plan andobjectives.
revisions proposed by the respective The Board has delegated certain responsibilities Committees and then approved by the Board.
The Boards agenda is determined against to Board committees namely: The Board has provided its Committees with apre-planned programme of business to the Nominations Committee: sufficient resources to undertake their duties, ensurethat, in addition to the day to day including access to the services of the matters requiring its consideration, all relevant the Audit Committee: Company Secretary and external advisors, issues come to the Board for its review at the Remuneration Committee: whereappropriate.
Attendance at meetings During the financial year, the Board considered Directors attendance at the Board and committee meetings convened in the year was as follows: a wide variety of matters including corporate development opportunities, the Groups Attended Not attended strategic plan, financial performance ofthe Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Company, risk management and controls within the Company, strategy and performance Number of meetings of the business units, Board effectiveness and Chairman evaluation, and shareholder feedback reports Anita Frew n a n a from brokers and analysts.
Executive Directors Matters reserved for the Board David Hummel n a n a n a anddelegation of authority Steve Barrow n a n a n a There are certain matters that are deemed Tim Cooper n a n a n a significant enough to be reserved for Board decision only.
A clearly documented schedule Non-executive Directors of matters reserved for Board decision is Giles Kerr reviewed annually by the Board to ensure it Patrick fide Smedt continues to be appropriate for the Company.
Lawrence Pentz These matters include: Pamela Kirby n a setting the Groups strategy and approval of the Companys long-term objectives: Although not a member of the Committees, Anita Frew, David Hummel and Steve Barrow attended a number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations approval of half-yearly reports, interim Committee meetings as invited attendees, when appropriate.
management statements andanypreliminary announcements ofthefinalresults: 42 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Leadership continued Risk Management Committee Disclosure Committee Currency Committee Chairman Lawrence Pentz Chairman Anita Frew, David Chairman Steve Barrow The Risk Management Committee the RMC Hummel or Steve Barrow The Currency Committee is chaired by is chaired by Lawrence Pentz and comprises The Disclosure Committees responsibilities theFinance Director and comprises the Chief theexecutive Directors, Managing Director areto ensure that the Companys obligations Executive and senior finance executives.
ofInvibio, the General Counsel and Company tomake timely and accurate disclosure of Itmeets monthly to review and manage the Secretary, Head of Business Assurance, VPS information in accordance with any applicable Groups currency hedging activities, in line with Manufacturing Director and global SHE law or regulation are met in circumstances the hedging policy approved by the Board.
The RMC is responsible for ensuring where it is impractical for the Board, or any Currently, the Group exports 97% of that all significant risks facing the Group are other Board Committee with delegated salesfrom the UK.
These sales are primarily reduced to an acceptable level.
responsibility, to fulfil those obligations.
denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Group Inaccordance with these responsibilities, Full details of the way the risk management hedging policy is to defer the impact on profits theCommittee may make disclosures on behalf framework operates at Victrex are given on of currency movements by hedging: of the Board.
The Committee will take advice, pages 17 to 20. including from the Companys broker, external a minimum of 90% and a maximum of During the course of the year, the RMC met auditor and legal advisors, on the form and 100% of projected transaction exposures quarterly and reported to the Board formally content of any disclosure under consideration.
arising from trading in the forthcoming twice.
However, due to the strengthening of sixmonth period: and The Committee comprises all Directors of the the risk management process over recent years, Company and a number of senior finance a minimum of 75% and a maximum of and the enhanced role of the EMT in that risk executives.
The Chairman of each Committee 100% of projected transaction exposures management process, the Group RMC will now meeting will be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
arising in the following six month period.
meet twice yearly and report to the Board after Meetings of the Committee may be called by each meeting.
Profitability can vary due to the impact of any member of the Committee on any period fluctuating exchange rates on the unhedged The Board annually undertakes a formal review of notice provided that notice is given to portion of the transaction exposures and of the effectiveness of the risk management allmembers.
No meetings were called from revised forecasts of future trading, framework, policies and the performance of intheyear ended 30 September 2013. which can lead to an adjustment of the RMC.
Twice yearly the Board reviews the currencycover in place.
key risks in the Group risk register, thereby allowing it the opportunity to review the level The impact of this hedging policy is disclosed of risk the Board is prepared to accept in pursuit innotes 13 and 21 to the financial statements.
During the year, the RMC sub-committees met The terms of reference of the quarterly and reported directly to it.
These Nominations, Audit, Remuneration comprise cross functional members of their and Risk Management Committees are respective Leadership Teams, in addition to available on the Companys website theHead of Business Assurance and the global www.
com and in paper SHE Manager.
form on request from the Registered Office of the Company.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 43 Corporate governance continued We also recognise the importance of conducted the effectiveness review of Leadership continued diversity in general at Board level and theChairman.
The results of the review The Chief Executives Committee ourBoard members comprise a number demonstrated improvements in areas identified In discharging his responsibilities, the ofdifferent nationalities with a wide range in 2012, including devoting more Board time ChiefExecutive is assisted by the Executive ofexperience from a variety of business todiscussing strategic matters and composition Management Team the EMT.
Further information on our of the Board.
A significant amount of Board comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Group HR policies, including those on equal time was devoted this year to strategic matters, Director, the Managing Director of VPS opportunities and diversity, is set out on including a two-day strategy session between andother senior executives as outlined page 31. the Board and senior management.
This team is responsible for composition was also strengthened with making recommendations to the Board on In response to the Davies Report, the Board further executive representation, with matters that are reserved for their decision such published a statement on Board diversity, theappointment of Tim Cooper last October as strategy, corporate development and annual which has been published on the investor bringing additional capability to drive delivery budgets.
The EMT meets on a monthly basis.
Board effectiveness Re-election of Directors Internal evaluations were also carried out on All Directors retire at each Annual General Composition, independence the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Meeting AGM and may offer themselves anddiversity of the Board Risk Committees to ensure these committees forre-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all The Board comprises a non-executive continue to operate effectively.
the Directors will retire at the AGM in February Chairman, four other non-executive 2014 and the Notice of AGM on page 94 gives The 2013 evaluation process concluded that Directors and three executive Directors, details of those Directors seeking re-election.
theBoard and its Committees remain effective following the appointment of Tim Cooper Further information on both the appointment infulfilling their responsibilities appropriately inOctober 2012.
The Code requirement and replacement of Directors is given in the andthat each Director continues to demonstrate thatat least half the Board should be Directors Report on page 62. a valuable contribution.
Areas identified as independent non-executive Directors has requiring more Board time in the next financial continued to be met.
The non-executive Conflicts of interest year were succession planning, in particular Directors including the Chairman, Anita Under the Companies Act 2006, a director forsenior management, and more technical Frew, upon her appointment as Chairman must avoid a situation where a direct or indirect briefings for Directors.
Succession planning on 1 October 2008 are all considered conflict of interest may occur and procedures willbe a key area of focus for the Nominations bythe Board to be independent of are in place to deal with any situation where a Committee during 2014 and the Board will management and free from any business conflict may be perceived.
The Board confirms begiven more opportunities to avail of orother relationship that could materially that it has considered and authorised any technicalbriefings.
interfere with the exercise of their conflicts or potential conflicts of interest independent judgement.
The Executive Directors performance is Board has specifically considered the other reviewedby the Remuneration Committee The composition of the Board is intended to appointments held by Directors, details of inconjunction with the Chief Executive, ensure that its membership represents a mix of which are contained in their biographies on exceptin the case of his own performance backgrounds and experience that will enhance page 38 to 39, and has confirmed that each review.
The Chairmans performance is the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
isable to devote sufficient time to fulfil the reviewed by the Remuneration Committee Diversity in board composition is an important duties required of them under the terms of inconjunction with the Chief Executive.
In looking for their contracts or letters of appointment.
prospective directors, there is regard to the During the year, pursuant to the Code, the skillsof the Board at that time and the need to As part of our new Global Code of Conduct, Chairman met with the other non-executive address longer-term succession and business an updated Conflict of Interests Policy has Directors without the executive Directors priorities.
The annual formal evaluation of been approved by the Board in July 2013. present, and the Senior Independent Director theBoard, Board Committee and individual Itapplies to all Group employees, including met with the other non-executive Directors, Directors performance takes Board diversity Directors, and outlines financial, supplier without the Chairman present.
into account and is instrumental in identifying and personal conflicts of interest which Future reviews any new skill requirements, as well as possible must be avoided to ensure that we act The Board intends to undertake an externally shortcomings, gaps or inefficiencies.
responsibly, ethically and with integrity.
facilitated evaluation process at least every Our current female representation on the Board evaluation three years, in line with the Code.
In the Boardis 25% and is therefore aligned with The Board recognises that a rigorous intervening years, the review will be facilitated theminimum target representation level to performance evaluation is important to by the Chairman supported by the Senior beachieved by 2015 as recommended by optimise Board effectiveness.
A formal Independent Director and Company Secretary, theDavies Review.
The Board recognises the evaluation of the Board, Board committees as outlined above.
importance of gender diversity at the level and individual Directors performance is The 2011 evaluation was the last externally below the Board and we are committed carried out annually.
In 2013, an internally facilitated Board evaluation and thus toensuring an appropriate level of gender facilitated Board evaluation was conducted.
anexternal evaluator will be appointed diversity, in particular at senior management The evaluation considered a range of factors in2014 to conduct this process.
There is a commitment in the Company including the balance of skills and experience, tosupport women in overcoming barriers they independence of the Board, board diversity and Induction and training face in rising to the top of the management relations between executive and non-executive All new non-executive Directors receive structure.
The female representation on the Directors.
The review was carried out by apersonalised induction programme, tailored EMT our Chief Executives Committee is theChairman, supported by the Company totheir experience, background and particular 25%.
Further information on the total female Secretary, and combined a detailed area of focus.
The programme has evolved representation on our workforce is provided questionnaire with in-depth interviews overtime to take into account feedback from inour Sustainability Report on page 29. onaone to one basis with Board members.
It includes a wide range of meetings TheSenior Independent Director, Giles Kerr, with other Directors and senior management, 44 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Further details of the risk management Board effectiveness continued Accountability framework operating at Victrex are given on Induction and training continued Financial and business reporting pages 17 to 20, which include details of the attending results and broker briefings and The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, principal external market and business specific opportunities to visit the Groups operations balanced and understandable assessment uncertainties faced by the business, a risk outside of the UK.
New executive Directors also ofthe Groups position and prospects.
receive an induction focused on their new role The statement that gives the reasons why the and wider responsibilities and include briefings Relations with shareholders Directors continue to adopt the going concern on areas such as Directors duties and corporate basis for preparing the financial statements The Board as a whole has a responsibility governance guidelines and best practice.
isgiven in the Directors Report onpage 63. forensuring that satisfactory engagement with shareholders takes place, based on Training including social, environmental Risk management and internal themutual understanding of objectives.
andethical matters is also provided.
It is controlprocedures TheBoard achieves this through effective considered as part ofthe Board evaluation The Board, supported by the Audit and dialogue with shareholders and analysts, process and any specific training or RiskManagement Committees, is responsible with the Chief Executive, Group FD development needs are addressed either for determining the nature and extent of the andHead of Investor Relations a new individually or as part of the annual Director significant risks it is willing to take in achieving appointment in this financial year training session.
In the current year, executive its strategic objectives and for maintaining leadingthese relationships.
Directors training included recent updates sound risk management and internal control tocorporate governance best practice.
A sound system of internal control The Board believes that appropriate steps is designed to manage rather than eliminate havebeen taken during the year to ensure Information and support the risk of failure to achieve business thatthe members of the Board and, in It is paramount that the Board members time objectives and can only provide reasonable particular the non-executive Directors, isused in an effective and focused manner and and not absolute assurance against material developan understanding of the views of thus we undertook two initiatives during the misstatement or loss.
In addition, the Board major shareholders on the Company.
First, we reviewed and streamlined the isresponsible for establishing formal and Suchsteps included, for example, analyst and type of information provided to the Board with transparent arrangements for considering how broker briefings, consideration by the Board a view to ensuring that the right high quality it should apply the corporate reporting, risk ofmonthly brokers reports and feedback from information with the appropriate level of focus management and internal control principles shareholder meetings on a six monthly basis.
is delivered at each meeting.
Second, and for maintaining an appropriate The canvassing of major shareholders views weintroduced a new Board Portal, which relationship with the Companys auditor.
forthe Board in a detailed investor survey facilitates efficient and timely delivery of isconducted twice a year by our brokers, information and Board packsto the Board.
The independent Business Assurance function JPMorgan.
In addition, the Chairman is supports the Board in its review of the The Board receives sufficient management available to meet institutional shareholders.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
information and reports on the right strategic TheSenior Independent Director and other There is a rolling programme of business and operational matters on a timely basis.
non-executive Directors will attend meetings assurance review carried out across the Group, Briefings by operational management also with major shareholders if requested.
No such co-ordinated by the Head of Business take place regularly to enhance the Boards meetings were requested during the year.
Assurance, who independently reports to the understanding of the business.
In addition, Chairman of the Audit Committee in relation Institutional investor relations activity is normally the Board gains valuable insight into the to business assurance matters.
The Audit concentrated in the periods following the activities of the business by visiting the Committee reviews the annual business announcement of the interim and final results.
operational sites including the main assurance plan, itsfindings, effectiveness, More broadly based presentations and site visits operational site in Lancashire.
allocation of appropriate resources and risk are arranged when there is a sufficient demand The Groups two business units each management activities and priorities.
to make them cost effective.
The Board is also  commentaries of committed to the regularity of investor days to The Audit Committee oversees whistleblowing financialand non-financial reports through keep the market updated on our strategy and arrangements, by which staff may, in astandardised reporting process to the Board.
growth plans, alongside our financial reporting.
confidence, raise concerns about possible Head Office Group functions are consolidated An investor day took place on 10 October 2013. improprieties in matters of financial reporting with these business units and the resulting or other matters.
As part of the Global Code The AGM provides the Board with Group position is reported monthly in a ofConduct, the Whistleblowing Policy has anopportunity to meet informally and Groupexecutive commentary to the Board.
been updated this year for best practice.
communicate directly with private investors.
TheGroup has a comprehensive process of Voting at the AGM is conducted by way of a annual budgeting and regular forecasting The Board and Audit Committee have reviewed show of hands in order to encourage questions linked to the Groups business objectives the effectiveness of the internal control system, from and interaction with private investors.
including financial, operational and compliance Proxy votes lodged on each AGM resolution controls, and risk management in accordance Directors can also take independent areannounced at the meeting and published with the code.
We confirm that the Group has professional advice where necessary at on the Companys website.
complied with the Code provisions on internal theCompanys expense and have access control by operating throughout the year We have also developed Victrexs Investor tothe services of the Company Secretary.
ended 30 September 2013 and up to the date Relations website www.
com to Appropriate levels of insurance cover are of approval of this Annual Report those ensure we are in line with publicly listed peers obtained for all Directors and Officers of the procedures necessary to implement the in providing accessibility of information for Company.
Further information on Directors recommendations of the Turnbull Committee our shareholders, large and small.
indemnities is given in the Directors Report and by reporting in accordance with these on page 63. recommendations.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 45 Corporate governance continued The Nominations Committee is also responsible for senior management succession planning to ensure the identification and development of senior management with potential for Board and EMT positions.
The 2013 Board evaluation highlighted that members desired more Committee time to be devoted to succession planning in general both at a Board and senior management level.
Focus, therefore, in the short term will be to strengthen existing succession plans at all levels within the organisation as follows: identify at risk areas across the business: ensure an appropriate succession pipeline for senior executives and business critical roles and provide a structured process Nominations Committee Report Audit Committee Report fordeveloping and mentoring these successors: and Chairman Anita Frew Chairman Giles Kerr ensure that talented individuals have the Membership Membership opportunity to develop and maximise The Committee members have been selected The Nominations Committee comprises all their potential.
with the aim of providing the wide range of of the non-executive Directors and is chaired Key activities undertaken by the Committee financial and commercial expertise required by the Company Chairman Anita Frew.
inthe current year included phase one of tofulfil the Committees duties.
The Committee meton two occasions adetailed review of talent management and The Audit Committee is chaired by Giles Kerr, during the year.
succession planning across the Group, and aqualified Chartered Accountant with significant subsequent to the year end, the appointment relevant financial experience, and comprises Responsibilities of Louisa Burdett who replaces Steve Barrow Lawrence Pentz, Patrick fide Smedt and The Committee is responsible for regularly as Group Finance Director in January 2014. effective from 1 October 2013 Pamela Kirkby.
reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including Board diversity, Boardroom diversity Committee meetings succession planning and identifying and The Boards Statement on Diversity, which has Only Audit Committee members are entitled recommending appropriate candidates been published on our website, is as follows: toattend a meeting.
However, the Chairman, formembership of the Board when The Board of Victrex plc welcomed the the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial vacancies arise.
publication in February 2011 of the Davies Controller, the Head of Business Assurance and In considering an appointment, the Review on Women on Boards.
Our current the External Audit Engagement Partner are Committee evaluates the balance of skills, normally invited to attend meetings.
Others female representation on the Board is 25% knowledge and experience of the Board arealso invited to attend certain meetings and is therefore aligned with that minimum andprepares a description of the role toprovide training or further insight into representation level by 2015 as recommended andcapabilities required for a particular specific issues and developments.
During the by the Davies Review.
We also recognise the period, the Audit Committee met on three appointment.
Internal candidates are importance of diversity in general at Board occasions.
Asection of at least one meeting considered where appropriate and this level and our Board members comprise a during theperiod took place without mostrecently applied for the appointment number of different nationalities with a managementpresent.
External widerange of experience from a variety search consultants are also used to identify ofbusiness backgrounds.
In the current year, The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in Egon Zehnder was appointed.
It has no line with an annual pre-determined programme connection with the Company.
of business based on its terms of reference as The Nominations Committee also reviews approved by the Board.
The key responsibilities thetime required from each non-executive of the Committee are: Director and any other significant commitments review the financial statements half-yearly of the Chairman.
The 2013 review found and annual reports and announcements thenon-executives time commitments relating to the financial performance tobesufficient to discharge their oftheCompany: .
review andchallenge actions and Based on recommendations from the judgements ofmanagement in relation Nominations Committee, the Directors tointerim and annual statements: submit themselves for re-election at the AGM following their appointment and review the effectiveness oftheinternal annually thereafter.
auditfunction: 46 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Responsibilities continued The Audit Committee considers the any correspondence from regulators review the Committees terms of reference, effectiveness of the external audit process on inrelation to our financial reporting.
carrying out an annual performance an annual basis, reporting its findings to the To aid our review, the Committee considers evaluation exercise and noting the board as part of its recommendation.
This reports from the Group Finance Director and satisfactory operation of the Committee: process is completed through completion Group Financial Controller and also reports ofa detailed questionnaire which includes all matters associated with the from the external auditor on the outcomes consideration of the audit partner, the approach, appointment, terms, remuneration and ofits half-year review and annual audit.
Asa communication, independence, objectivity Committee we support KPMG in displaying performance of the external auditor and for and reporting.
This is completed by members reviewing the scope and results of the audit the necessary independence and objectivity of the Committee and senior members of and its cost effectiveness: and its role requires.
the finance team who regularly interact withthe external auditor.
The results of the report tothe Board on how it has The primary areas of judgement considered by questionnaire are reported to and discussed the Committee in relation to the 2013 financial discharged itsresponsibilities, including an assessment of whether the financial by the Committee.
It also assessed the cost statements and how these have been addressed statements are fair, balanced and effectiveness and value for money aspect are listed below.
In concluding that the below oftheaudit.
understandable andprovide the list represented the primary areas of judgement, the Audit Committee considered a report by information necessary for shareholders The Committee considered the length to assess the Groups performance, management which referenced both quantitative ofKPMGs tenure and the results of the business model and strategy.
and qualitative judgement factors across each detailed questionnaire when assessing their significant account balance, assessing the continued effectiveness, independence and impact on the user of the financial statements.
The Committee continues to These are also areas of higher audit risk and To provide effective governance over the consider KPMG to be independent and when appropriateness of the financial reporting accordingly KPMG reported to the Committee considering the most suitable timing for a ofthe Company, including but not limited on and the Audit Committee discussed future audit tender, took account ofFRC thesejudgements.
tothe completeness of related disclosures, guidance concerning the alignment of the the performance of the external auditor, the tender date with the rotation of theaudit Carrying value of inventory: the Committee internal audit function and the management partner and the report from the Competition reviews the nature of the costs absorbed of the Companys internal control systems Commission, which is expected to result in into inventory and the reasons for movements and related compliance operations.
mandatory tendering at least every ten years.
in value period to period.
The basis for As a new audit partner was introduced in 2013, and level of provisioning, including those External audit the Committee has provided the Board with areas which are judgemental, is presented Non-audit services its recommendation to the shareholders to to the Committee by management.
To further safeguard the independence re-appoint KPMG asexternal auditor for the Defined benefit accounting: the valuation andobjectivity of the external auditor, non-audit year ending 30September 2014.
This will of the defined benefit scheme is dependent services provided by the external auditor, continue to be assessed on an annual basis KPMG, were authorised in accordance with on a number of assumptions that are considering the provisions outlined in the the non-audit services policy.
This policy is inherently judgemental.
The Audit Committee revised UK Corporate Governance code assesses these judgements based on reports outlined in an appendix to theCommittee inrespect of external audit tendering received from management and the Groups terms of reference, which are published on andthe recent changes resulting from our website.
This policy places constraints on actuarial advisors.
the quantum and type ofservices undertaken by our auditor with theaim of protecting Internal control and internal audit Financial reporting The Audit Committee also considers the results the independence andobjectivity of our The primary role of the Committee in relation auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year ended of internal control reviews and reviews the to financial reporting is to review with both 30 September 2013 were 63,000 effectiveness of the internal audit function.
management and the external auditor, and 2012:47,000.
Thenon-audit fees related There is a rolling programme of internal control report to the Board where requested or reviews carried out across the Group by the to taxation and pension compliance work.
required, the appropriateness of the half-year Alternative providers were considered but not internal audit function, supported by other and annual financial statements concentrating deemed practical in the specific circumstances.
The Head on, amongst other matters: Noapproval was given to any non-audit ofBusiness Assurance, as appointed by the the quality and acceptability of Committee, has responsibility for internal audit services not in accordance with the APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
accounting policies and practices: and independently reports to the Chairman ofthe Audit Committee in relation to internal Appointment, independence the clarity of the disclosures and control matters.
The Audit Committee receives compliance with financial reporting andeffectiveness these reviews from the internal audit function, standards and relevant financial and The Committee considers the re-appointment reviews its findings, annual audit plan, of the external auditor each year, whilst governance reporting requirements: effectiveness, allocation of appropriate assessing its independence on an ongoing material areas in which significant resources and risk management activities basis.
The external auditor is required to rotate judgements have been applied or therehas andpriorities which are performed under the the audit partner every five years.
been discussion with the external auditor: governance of the risk management committee KPMG was re-appointed as auditor at the as outlined on page 43.
The Committee also whether the Annual Report, taken as a 2013 AGM.
KPMG has been our auditor reviews theGroups Whistleblowing Policy, whole, is fair, balanced andunderstandable which wasupdated during the year as part since 1993 during which time the audit has and provides the information necessary oftheGlobal Code of Conduct.
There are no contractual for shareholders toassess the Companys obligations that restrict the Committees performance, business model and choice of external auditor.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 47
