Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Alan Ferguson Audit Committee Chairman Introduction As Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present our first report to shareholders following our adoption of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which applies for the first time this year.
It is my intention that through this report we will demonstrate our commitment, as an Audit Committee, to our responsibilities under the Code and how we have discharged them effectively during the year.
Key objective Our key objective is to provide effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting including the adequacy of disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and oversight of the Groups systems of internal control, framework of identification and management of business risks and related compliance activities.
These activities include a detailed review of the process and related reporting underpinning the fair, balanced and understandable conclusion in relation to this Annual Report, a decision which is reserved for the full Board.
Membership I chair the Committee and am joined by Melanie Gee, John Mogford and Rick Menell, three of my fellow Board members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Charles Berry was appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on 1 March 2013 and subsequently left the Committee on his appointment to Chairman on 1 January 2014.
Both Melanie and John have been members of the Committee for the full year and to the date of this report with Rick Menell being appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
Each of the Committee members has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters and has been selected with the aim of providing the wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil our responsibilities.
Summary biographies have been presented on pages 64 and 65.
Responsibilities As a Committee, we are responsible for: reviewing the announcements of the Groups financial results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report and Financial Statements, and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and those judgements and estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: advising the Board on whether the Committee believes that the processes underlying the compilation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are robust and support the assertion reached by the Board that the document, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, covering their appointment, independence, fees and audit quality and effectiveness: reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit function, ensuring its independence and that there are the necessary resources and access to information available in order for it to fulfil its mandate: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for financial control, financial reporting and risk management, incorporating a review of reports on any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or unethical behaviour: oversight of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption AB&C programme and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance: and reviewing treasury policy including foreign exchange exposure.
The Terms of Reference can be found on the Groups website, weir.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 79 Directors Report: Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued Meetings We met four times during the period.
This represents an additional meeting compared to prior years and was the result of a decision made by the members of the Committee following review of the annual agenda and the time allocated to each of its responsibilities.
In the current period, the additional time was mainly used to discuss reports presented by the Divisional Finance Directors on internal control compliance.
Each Committee meeting takes place prior to a Board meeting, during which I provide a report on our activities.
There is at least one meeting each year when we meet with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors separately, without any executive management present.
This provides us with the opportunity for any issues of concern to be raised by, or with, the auditors.
We have the ability to call on Group employees to assist in our work and to obtain any information required from Executive Directors in order to carry out our roles and duties.
We are also able to obtain outside legal or independent professional advice if required.
The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP EY attended the meetings as auditors to the Group by invitation.
Audit Committee attendees Lord Smith Group Chairman to 31 12 13 Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Jon Stanton Group Finance Director Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as secretary to the Committee Lindsay Dixon Group Financial Controller Attends by invitation Sarah Caldwell Head of Internal Audit Attends by invitation The Committee members attendance at the meetings held during the calendar year is summarised in the table below.
Current members Name Attendance 2 Alan Ferguson Chairman Charles Berry 2 of 2 Melanie Gee Alan Ferguson 4 of 4 1 Rick Menell Melanie Gee 4 of 4 John Mogford John Mogford 4 of 4 Notes 1.
Rick Menell joined the Committee on 21 January 2014.
Charles Berry attended all meetings in the period of his appointment to the Committee on 1 March 2013.
He resigned from the Committee on 1 January 2014.
Between the end of the calendar year and the date of this report, there were two meetings of the Audit Committee.
Following his appointment as Chairman, succeeding Lord Smith, Charles Berry attended the meetings by invitation.
All other members of the Committee attended both those meetings.
Main activities during the period Over the course of the period, our work was focussed in the following areas: i financial reporting: ii internal control and risk management: iii internal audit: and iv external audit.
The following sections provide more detail on our specific items of focus under each of these headings, explaining the work we, as a Committee, have undertaken and the results of that work.
i Financial reporting Our principal responsibility in this area is the review and challenge, where necessary, of the actions and judgements of management in relation to the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board, paying particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices, and any changes therein: decisions requiring judgements and estimates with the most significant effect or where there has been discussion with the external auditor: the existence of any adjustments resulting from the audit: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with accounting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: and the processes surrounding the compilation of the annual report and financial statements with regard to fair, balanced and understandable.
80 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements We received formal reports from the Group Finance Director and the external auditor, summarising the main discussion points for both the half year and full year reporting and explored these in detail at our meetings in January, February and August.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the contents of this years annual report and financial statements and the process that has been undergone in the preparation of the document.
With regard to the latter, the Committee received a report from management summarising the detailed approach that had been taken which covered, but was not limited to, the following: involvement of a cross section of management across the organisation, including the Group Executive, Group Communications, Group Finance including Group Tax and Company Secretariat: input and advice from appropriate external advisers, including the Companys broker and PR agency: use of available disclosure checklists for both Corporate Governance and financial statement reporting: regular research to identify emerging practice and guidance from relevant regulatory bodies, for example the Financial Reporting Lab: regular weekly meetings of the Disclosure Committee, which comprises the key contributors to the document, during which specific consideration was given to the fair, balanced and understandable assertion: and use of two cold readers: one of these a member of the Senior Management Group of the Group and the other an external, independent proof reader.
The successful completion of this work has been reported to the Board.
Current period matters 1 Accounting for the acquisition of Mathena Inc. Mathena The specific items we have discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors, EY, in relation to the acquisition of Mathena were: a the Purchase Price Allocation PPA exercise to attribute values to separately identifiable intangible assets and related accounting for deferred tax: b the assessment of acquisition fair values of other assets and liabilities, specifically Property, Plant & Equipment and provisions: and c compliance of the disclosures in the financial statements with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Management engaged with an independent external advisor to complete the PPA exercise and reported a summary of the underpinning assumptions and related results to us during the year.
We reviewed that summary and also compared the assumptions used to those for other recent acquisitions where appropriate.
The final fair values are disclosed in note 13.
The accounting for deferred tax has included technical input from the Group Head of Tax.
We examined the nature and extent of fair value adjustments to other assets and liabilities noting a rigorous process had been undertaken and property values were supported by third party valuations.
Finally, we challenged management on the completeness of the related disclosures and satisfied ourselves that they were complete, accurate, understandable and compliant with IFRS 3.
2 Exceptional items reassessment of Mathena contingent consideration An initial assessment of the contingent consideration payable under the terms of the Sale & Purchase Agreement SPA was undertaken at the date of acquisition.
Based on conditions at that time, a liability was recorded, with an equivalent increase in goodwill, on the assumption that the EBITDA targets, relating to 2013 and 2014, would be achieved in full.
Subsequent to this initial assessment and due to the continuation of the depressed natural gas price, certain customers reduced their gas drilling activity.
This impacted the short term forecasts for the business such that the reassessment performed by management of the contingent consideration payable has reduced to nil with an exceptional credit being recorded in the Income Statement.
We have held detailed discussions with management covering the key assumptions underpinning the revised assessment and also any potential resultant impact on impairment testing of the goodwill and customer relationships balances.
The Committee is satisfied on the basis of this work that the credit to the Income Statement is appropriate, as is its presentation as an exceptional item on the face of that statement, and that there is no requirement for an impairment loss to be recognised.
3 Valuation of inventory The shift of North American drilling activity from gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations in Q1 2012 impacted customer activity levels such that there remains excess capacity in certain pressure pumping equipment sectors within the market.
As a result, the Committee has given specific consideration to the work undertaken by management in assessing the valuation of our related inventory, including consideration of the proportion of gross inventory provided for at the balance sheet date of just over 8%, and concluded it is appropriate given current and expected market conditions.
4 Reassessment of Cash Generating Units CGUs We challenged management on the process undergone to reassess the appropriateness of the CGUs during the year and their allocation of recent acquisitions to existing or new CGUs.
This included questioning of the evidence identified by management in support of the changes made.
We agree that the requirements of IAS 36, including those in respect of the management of cash flows, supports the level at which the CGUs are identified and reported on and that the level of disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
Recurring agenda items 1 Impairment testing of intangible assets At least once every year, as required, management undertakes a detailed, formal impairment review of goodwill and other intangible assets, the book value of which is 1,615m 2012: 1,454m at the balance sheet date.
The most significant judgements are in setting the assumptions underpinning the calculation of the value in use of the CGUs, specifically the achievability of the long-term business plan and macroeconomic assumptions underlying the valuation process.
Specific focus was given to long term growth rates, discount rates and any CGUs with lower levels of headroom.
Business plans and budgets were Board approved and underpin the cash flow forecasts.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 81 Directors Report: Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued In the current year, we undertook a detailed review of the results of the testing, and underlying assumptions, of the impairment model, including those individual CGUs collectively presented as other in note 14, with specific consideration given to the renewables businesses.
We agree that there is no impairment charge required.
2 Accounting for pensions The detailed disclosure as required under IAS 19 Revised is included in note 24.
We have examined these disclosures and the prior year adjustment required following adoption of the new standard and we are satisfied they are complete and accurate.
In reaching this conclusion, we have challenged management on the key assumptions used underpinning the valuation, taking assurance from the fact that external advice is taken by them.
During the current period, we gave specific consideration to the accounting treatment applied following the announcement that agreement had been reached between the Company and the trustees of the UKs Main Plan that it would close to future accrual of benefits from 30 June 2015 and agreed with the presentation on the face of the Income Statement.
3 Tax charge and provisioning The Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Group Finance Director every six months which covers the following key areas: i status of ongoing enquiries and tax audits with local tax authorities: ii the Groups effective tax rate for the current year: and iii the level of provisioning for known and potential liabilities, including significant movements on the prior period.
In addition, the Committee takes comfort from the presentation to the main Board on tax strategy and risk, given by the Group Head of Tax, every year.
Based on the work we have undertaken in the current year we are satisfied that the position presented in these financial statements is reasonable.
This is supported by the reporting we have received from the Groups external advisor.
4 Accounting for provisions Total provisions on the Group Balance Sheet are 55m 2012: 70m at the end of the period with the breakdown by category presented in note 22.
In respect of the current year, we have examined the key movements between the opening and closing provision balances and challenged management on the commercial drivers which caused them.
We have also examined, through discussion and updates provided by the Group General Counsel where it is relevant to do so based on the nature of the provision, the appropriateness of the closing positions.
ii Internal control and risk management During the year, we reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its internal control environment.
Our work in this area was supported by reporting from the Head of Internal Audit on the results of the programme of audit visits undertaken: the overall assessment of the internal control environment: and the incidence of any significant frauds or any fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Committee also receives regular reporting on the Groups compliance related activities from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, reporting, either verbal or written, from senior management covering any investigations into known or suspected fraudulent activities is reviewed.
Since the last Annual Report and Financial Statements there have been presentations from the three Divisional Finance Directors DFDs on the results of the most recent Compliance Scorecards and their divisional priorities for the coming year.
The Compliance Scorecard is a control mechanism whereby each operating company undertakes a self-assessment every six months of their compliance with Group policies and procedures, including key internal controls across a range of categories including finance, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, tax, treasury, Trade & Customs, HR, IT and legal.
As far as the elements relating to finance are concerned, these cover but are not limited to management accounts and financial reporting, balance sheet controls, employee costs and other financial policies.
Operating companies are required to gather evidence and undertake sample testing to validate their self-assessment responses.
Internal Audit then has responsibility for confirming the self-assessment responses during planned visits.
Any significant variances are reported to local, divisional and Group management.
Any companies reporting lower levels of compliance are required to prepare improvement plans to demonstrate how they will improve over a reasonable period of time.
The overall compliance scores in percent are tracked over time and reported to the Audit Committee twice a year with the Committee paying particular attention to the variances between self-assessed and Internal Audit assessed scores as well as trends and the performance of newly acquired companies.
Our role with regard to risk is to look at the process of formulating the risk matrix and the assurance provided over internal controls and other mitigating factors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the principal risks included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
82 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements iii Internal audit One of the main duties of the Committee is to review the annual internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced, effective including an assessment of the independence of the function and has appropriate standing within the Company.
As far as the scope of the Internal Audit programme is concerned, the aim is to carry out visits to each operating company in the Group on a periodic, rotational basis.
A risk based approach is taken when planning any one years audit plan with factors such as volatility of end markets, critical system or senior management changes in the period, results of the last Internal Audit visit and any other assurance reviews undertaken and whether the business is a recent acquisition being taken into consideration.
In addition, the emergence of any common themes or trends in the findings of recent internal audit visits or compliance scorecard submissions see previous section are taken into consideration in formulating the internal audit plan.
Finally, Anti-Bribery & Corruption reviews are undertaken, focussing on areas such as relationships with agents, accounting for employee expenses and corporate hospitality gifts.
The Internal Audit Plan is reviewed and approved by the Committee each year.
Twice annually the Head of Internal Audit reports on audit activities, progress against the plan, and the results of audit visits with particular focus on high priority findings and the action plans, including management responses, to address these areas.
No trends or common themes have been identified during the current year that required or warranted a change to the internal audit plan for 2014.
Private discussions between myself and the Head of Internal Audit are held during the year and once a year with the full Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit has progressed to a Finance Director role within the business with effect from the end of January 2014 and a replacement, who I interviewed as part of my role in the recruitment process, has been appointed and commenced work at the start of February 2014. iv External audit Auditor effectiveness The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
EY present their detailed audit plan to us each year identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the current period, the significant risks identified were acquisition accounting, the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, liability provisioning, including provisions for legal obligations and taxation, and the valuation of inventory due to the inherent management judgement required in all these areas.
Our work in each of these areas has been covered in detail earlier in this report.
Our assessment of the effectiveness and quality of the audit process in addressing these matters is formed by amongst other things a review of the reporting from the auditors and also by seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the first half of the year, management issued a detailed questionnaire to every Finance Manager Director and Divisional Finance Director to collect feedback on the 2012 audit process.
This covered resource and expertise of the audit teams, quality of planning, execution and deliverables as well as an assessment of overall performance.
Resultant themes and findings were discussed between ourselves, management and EY with both management and the auditors reporting to us on the actions being implemented in response.
In addition, on a periodic basis, the Finance Director meets with the overseas external audit teams.
The Committee also noted the Audit Quality Inspection report issued by the FRC in May 2013 which was positive in tone and direction for EY.
Overall management were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk, although there are of course some areas where improvements can be made, and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
Based on the input from management and discussions we have had with EY and key finance individuals, we also hold this view.
This process was repeated in respect of the 2013 audit.
The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditor each year to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also meet with the lead audit partner outside the formal committee process as necessary throughout the year.
Independence policy and non-audit services The Audit Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors.
This includes keeping under review the auditors independence by providing guidelines on any non-audit services that are to be provided by them.
In addition, a formal policy exists which ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
All non-audit services require the approval of management and, where the expected cost of the service is in excess of 75,000, the approval of the Audit Committee.
No changes have been made to either policy in the current year.
The auditors confirm their independence at least annually.
Fees payable to EY in respect of audit and assurance services for 2013 of 1.9m 2012: 1.7m were approved by the Committee after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, including the impact of acquisitions, and after being satisfied by EY that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
Non-audit fee work conducted by EY over the past year for assurance services amounted to 0.1m, which represented 5% of the total fees including audit fees, and were incurred primarily in relation to other assurance services.
We are of the view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the independence of the external auditors.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83 Directors Report: Audit Committee Report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued Auditor choice, tenure and tendering The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor, including rotation of the audit partner, each year.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for two years, including 2013.
EY, or its predecessor firms, has been the Companys external auditor since prior to its stock market listing in 1946.
As part of our annual review of the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit we conduct an in depth review of their performance as noted above.
There were no matters arising from the review in the current year, which we felt required the service to be tendered immediately.
We have considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in the Code, which we are supportive of.
We have also reviewed the recent guidance provided by the European Commission and the Competition Commission.
The European transitional provisions relating to Mandatory Firm Rotation are likely to require rotation of the external auditor of the Group within 6 years from July 2014, effectively the 2020 year end, which is also when it is likely that the Competition Commission would mandate a tender process.
However after due consideration we expect to tender the audit, at the latest, coincident to the next rotation of the incumbent lead audit partner, which would be for the 2017 year end.
Having considered the relationship with the independent auditor, their qualifications, expertise, resources and effectiveness, in particular noting the rotation of lead audit partner in the prior year, the Committee concluded that the external auditors remain independent and effective and recommended to the Board that EY be re-appointed as the Companys external auditors for 2014.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors and the Committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit.
A resolution to re-appoint EY as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Alan Ferguson On behalf of the Audit Committee 26 February 2014 84 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
