Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Charles Berry Nomination Committee Chairman Current members Name Attendance 1 Charles Berry Chairman Keith Cochrane 5 of 5 Keith Cochrane Rick Menell 4 of 5 Rick Menell Lord Robertson 5 of 5 2 3 John Mogford Lord Smith 5 of 5 Lord Robertson Notes 1.
Charles Berry was appointed Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2014.
There were no meetings held from the date of his appointment to 3 January 2014.
John Mogford was appointed to the Committee on 21 January 2014.
Lord Smith retired from the Committee and as Chairman of the Committee on 31 December 2013.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and in 2013 two of the Non-Executive Directors.
John Mogford joined the Committee at the start of 2014.
The Committee was chaired by Lord Smith until 31 December 2013.
Charles Berry has succeeded him as Chairman of the Committee.
A majority of the members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Senior members of management and advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
There were five scheduled meetings held during the year.
Details of the attendance of the members of the Committee for the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014 are contained in the table above.
The Chairman does not chair the meeting when the matters under consideration relate to him or his position.
Similarly, should a matter under discussion relate to any of the other Committee members they would excuse themselves from the meeting.
During the year, there were several agenda items on the replacement of Lord Smith as Chairman.
Lord Smith was not party to these discussions, which were led by Lord Robertson in his absence.
Committees role The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior management succession plans, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
The Committee was evaluated as part of the annual Board evaluation process and its performance was found to be satisfactory.
Independence The Nomination Committee reviewed and confirmed the independence of all Non-Executive Directors and in particular Lord Robertson who, as of February 2014, has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for a period of ten years.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code a rigorous review was undertaken which examined his continued contribution to the Board and its Committees and his external interests and roles.
It was concluded that the Board still considers all of its Non-Executive Directors, including Lord Robertson, to be independent in character and judgement.
Lord Robertsons experience and objectivity was considered to still bring value to the Board and his fellow Directors.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 77 Directors Report: Nomination Committee Report NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Continued Processes are in place to identify any business relationships held by Non-Executive Directors or additional directorships or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies which may be of relevance in determining the independence of a Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors continue to be independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Board appointments The Committee has established a process for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This process includes drawing up a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment together with a review of the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing Directors.
The existing balance of the Board and the time commitment required are also taken into consideration when assessing candidates.
A significant amount of the Committees time in 2013 was spent recruiting a successor to Lord Smith as Chairman and on the recruitment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
External search consultancies were used in both instances.
The Company engaged The Inzito Partnership for the appointment of Charles Berry and Odgers Berndtson in the appointment of Mary Jo Jacobi.
Neither company has any other connection with the Weir Group.
Succession planning The Committee has given increased focus to the talent pool for potential candidates and succession planning within the Group.
During the year, the Director of Human Resources presented a review of senior executive succession planning, containing details of ongoing or proposed talent development, the methods for identifying and cultivating potential internal candidates, and the balance of internal and external recruiting for the most senior positions.
The Committee also spends time on succession planning for the various Board level roles.
Boardroom diversity The considerations to be taken into account in each appointment to the Board are stipulated in the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee which are available on the Companys website.
Specifically, the Nomination Committee must consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender in identifying and recommending candidates.
The Nomination Committee recommends appointments to the Board based on the existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, on the merits and capabilities of the nominee and on the time they are able to devote to the role in order to promote the success of the Company.
The Board acknowledges the benefits a diverse pool of talent can bring to a boardroom.
Among other things, a diverse board encompasses diversity of experience, social background, education and training, life skills and personal attributes, as well as differences in age, nationality, race and gender.
Having considered the question of diversity during the year, the Board approved a policy with respect to Board diversity at its meeting in January 2014.
The Nomination Committee will operate under and report against this policy from this date.
The recent focus on Board diversity has centred on gender and the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation on the Board.
As of January 2014, two of the nine Board members of the Company are female 22%.
The Board will continue to consider its policy with respect to Board diversity on future appointments but will not place a higher regard on one form of diversity over any other.
The appropriate composition of the Board as a whole with regard to the size and activity of the Company will be taken in to account at all times.
Charles Berry On behalf of the Nomination Committee 26 February 2014 78 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
