Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 3 January 2014, and from that date to the date of approval of this Annual Report, with the exception of one part of a provision which is detailed on page 68.
Changes to the Board Board Changes during 2013 and early 2014: I was appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013.
I was subsequently appointed Deputy Chairman on 1 May 2013.
Lord Smith retired from the Board and as Chairman on 31 December 2013.
He also retired as Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
I was appointed Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee Chairman on 1 January 2014.
Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014.
Induction and training For a Board to function at its best, individual Directors must be equipped with the knowledge and skills I am approaching my first needed to undertake their role effectively.
I underwent anniversary as a Director of a sustained period of induction, learning about the Company in advance of becoming Chairman.
The the Weir Group having joined in knowledge gained by doing this was invaluable in March last year.
In that time I have order to allow me to take on this role with a confident gained a clear understanding of understanding of the business and how it operates.
I will be supporting a continued induction programme the business and can assure you for all new Directors in addition to ongoing training.
that good corporate governance More details on this can be found on page 73. is paramount to all that we do.
Succession planning and diversity I come from a strong background To maintain an effective Board, it is essential to plan for of governance work through the future and to ensure the right individuals are selected my various executive and nonto the Board from a diverse pool of talent.
The Board considers itself diverse in terms of the background and executive roles.
Lord Smith has experience which each individual brings to the Board.
led this Board for the last 11 years All future appointments will continue to be based on with an exemplary record of merit, however, the Board aspires to maintain a significant level of female representation on the Board.
More details openness, honesty and integrity on our diversity policy can be found in the Nomination and I look forward to maintaining Committee Report on page 78.
Details of the proportion that best practice in future years.
of women on the Board, in senior executive positions and within the whole organisation can be found on UK Corporate Governance Code page 57 of the Sustainability Review.
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that under my leadership the Board of Directors of The Weir Group Risk and sustainability PLC operates effectively and in compliance with the I am mindful that operating under good governance UK Corporate Governance Code.
In accordance with means a continued focus on two primary areas: risk the Listing Rules, the Weir Group is reporting on how and sustainability.
Board decisions are not made without it has applied the main principles and whether we taking these in to consideration and I will ensure that they have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
continue to receive the time and prominence in the Board The Code was revised in September 2012 primarily room that they deserve.
The relevant sections in the with changes to the disclosures for auditors and the Annual Report can be found from pages 24 and 49. audit committee.
Alan Ferguson, as the Chairman of the Audit Committee has been working with the Audit Committee and the Board to ensure full compliance with these changes.
Details can be found in the Audit Committee Report from page 79.
I am pleased to report that the Weir Group has complied fully with Charles Berry all the principles of the Code, for the 53 weeks to Chairman 26 February 2014 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code formerly the Combined Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and sets out standards of good practice in relation to issues such as Board composition and effectiveness, the role of Board committees, risk management, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
Paper and downloadable versions can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Council via its website at www.
As a listed company, we must detail how we have complied with the Code and provide an explanation of instances where we have not.
This report, in addition to the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports, details how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
For the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, except in the instance of one part of a provision detailed below, the Board considers that the Company has complied fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code Provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
During 2013, Lord Robertson undertook engagement with various stakeholders but he did not attend meetings with a range of major shareholders.
It is considered that the Company has a robust Investor Relations department which oversees such meetings and that there are sufficient processes in place for the issues and concerns of major shareholders to be communicated to all members of the Board that it is not necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend these meetings.
He is of course willing to attend such meetings if the need arises.
The Board do not feel that this in any way impedes its good corporate governance and believe that the current practice is in compliance with the main and supporting principles under section E regarding dialogue with shareholders.
Further details of the Companys relations with its shareholders can be found on page 76.
Leadership The Board of Directors Table of the Board of Directors Name Designation Date of appointment Date of most recent re-election Charles Berry Chairman 1 March 2013 1 May 2013 Keith Cochrane Chief Executive 3 July 2006 1 May 2013 Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13 December 2011 1 May 2013 Melanie Gee Non-Executive Director 4 May 2011 1 May 2013 Mary Jo Jacobi Non-Executive Director 1 January 2014 Rick Menell Non-Executive Director 1 April 2009 1 May 2013 John Mogford Non-Executive Director 1 June 2008 1 May 2013 Lord Robertson Non-Executive Director 1 February 2004 1 May 2013 Jon Stanton Finance Director 19 April 2010 1 May 2013 The names of the current Directors of the Company can be found in the table above.
Biographical information on the current Directors, including their relevant experience and significant appointments, can be found on pages 64 and 65.
Their relevant skills and experiences are further detailed in the Board composition section below.
Charles Berry joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2013.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 1 May 2013 and became Chairman on 1 January 2014.
He replaces Lord Smith who resigned as Chairman and a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2013.
Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2014.
The role and responsibilities of the Board The Board of Directors has a collective duty to promote the long term success of the Company for its shareholders.
The Board provides leadership of the Company and sets the Groups strategic aims.
It ensures that the necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities and provides guidance to senior management.
In determining the long term strategy and objectives of the Group, the Board is mindful of its duties and responsibilities not just to shareholders but also to customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board reviews management and financial performance and monitors the delivery of strategy and the achievement of business objectives.
At all times it works within a robust framework of internal controls and risk management.
The Board both develops and promotes the collective vision of the Groups purpose, culture, values and behaviours.
Board composition During the period the Board has comprised two Executive Directors and the Chairman, and the number of Non-Executive Directors increased from five to six following the appointment of Charles Berry on 1 March 2013.
Since 1 January 2014, when Charles Berry was appointed Chairman to replace Lord Smith following his resignation, and Mary Jo Jacobi was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, the number of Non-Executive Directors has remained at six.
There is a Company Secretary to the Board.
More information on their respective positions and the division of their responsibilities is outlined below.
68 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Chairman and Chief Executive During 2013, the Board was chaired by Lord Smith of Kelvin.
He stepped down from this role at the end of the year and was replaced by Charles Berry with effect from 1 January 2014.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring conditions that allow for the effectiveness of individual Directors and the Board as a whole.
Charles Berry has continued the approach of openness and accountability set by Lord Smith and encourages debate within the boardroom.
His leadership demonstrates the values and behaviours at the core of the Weir Group.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for the Boards meetings and ensures that there is sufficient time available for the discussion of all items whilst giving the appropriate weighting of time to their relative importance.
Keith Cochrane is the Chief Executive and is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company.
He provides leadership to the Group to successfully plan and execute the objectives and strategy agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the Group Executive and various management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with each having clearly defined duties and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors help the Executive Directors by contributing independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations and assisting in the development of the Companys strategy.
In addition, they are responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors against agreed goals and objectives.
Their views are essential in overseeing the performance of the Company and ensuring the integrity of the financial information, controls and risk management processes.
In order to carry out these functions appropriately the Non-Executive Directors meet regularly with senior management and make periodic site visits.
Senior managers are also regularly invited to Board meetings to make business presentations to the Board.
Senior Independent Director Lord Robertson is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
The Board considers Lord Robertson to be independent in character and judgement notwithstanding the length of time that he has served on the Board.
The Senior Independent Director works alongside the Chairman and is available to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if direct contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve the concerns of shareholders or for which such contact is inappropriate.
As Senior Independent Director he also leads the annual review of the performance of the Chairman.
Company Secretary Keith Ruddock was appointed as Company Secretary in May 2012.
He is secretary to the Board of Directors and to all of the Board Committees.
He is Group General Counsel and a member of the Group Executive and his biography is set out on page 66.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on any changes in legislation, governance codes or regulatory requirements.
He reports to the Chairman on corporate governance matters and oversees, in parallel with the Chairman, the governance procedures of the Board.
The Company Secretary has a responsibility to ensure that these Board procedures are adhered to and periodically reviews them with regards to best practice.
Board meetings The Boards scheduled meetings are held in person or by telepresence video-conferencing.
During 2013, there were nine scheduled meetings held.
No additional meetings were required.
In September 2013, the Board meeting was held in Todmorden, England.
This was part of a knowledge gathering trip to view both the facilities of Weir Minerals Europe at Todmorden and Weir Valves & Controls UK in Elland.
More information on this can be found on page 74.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, the Board maintains an open dialogue throughout the year and contact by telephone occurs whenever necessary.
The Board also met at the Group conference in Perthshire, Scotland, in April 2013.
The table below details the attendance at board meetings of each of the Directors during their term of office for the 53 weeks to 3 January 2014.
Name Attendance 1 Charles Berry 7 of 7 Keith Cochrane 9 of 9 Alan Ferguson 9 of 9 Melanie Gee 9 of 9 Rick Menell 8 of 9 John Mogford 9 of 9 Lord Robertson 9 of 9 Lord Smith of Kelvin 9 of 9 Jon Stanton 9 of 9 Notes 1.
Charles Berry was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013.
There were no Board meetings held between the date of Mary Jo Jacobis appointment to the Board on 1 January 2014 and 3 January 2014.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued During the year the Chairman, supported by the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, continued the practice of maintaining a rolling 12 month agenda for Board and committee meetings.
At each meeting the Board receives reports from the Chief Executive and other members of the Group Executive including information on safety, strategy, human resources, finance and legal.
The Board also receives periodic updates from the committee Chairmen, who in particular report to the Board on committee meetings.
Other standing items include reviewing the risk register and internal controls, strategy and succession planning.
The Boards time during 2013 can be grouped in to six key areas as outlined below.
A portion of their time is also spent on administrative matters.
Strategy Risk Setting strategy Governance targets.
Legal updates and Reviewing Stakeholder new disclosure Oversight of the potential Groups risk and Safety engagement requirements.
internal control management of EHS Standards AGM and other framework.
Internal Board Products and the financial and Management shareholder review.
Succession EHS Audit Dividend policy.
Oversight of remuneration consultation process.
The Board receives presentations by members of the Weir Group senior management team and external advisors as required.
The annual timetable is discussed in May of the preceding year and circulated as soon as it is finalised which ensures that the Chairman can be comfortable that each Director is able to devote the time and resources required to act as a Director during that period.
The system for establishing agenda items means both the Chairman and the Board have the confidence that all required items are included at the most appropriate time of the year and there is sufficient time allocated for discussion by the Board, allowing the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
Board and Group Executive meeting locations for 2011-2013 2013 2012 2011 Board Board Board Group Exec Group Exec Group Exec 70 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Matters reserved for the Board The Board recognises that to ensure the long term success of the Company, certain specific matters should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Board alone.
Other matters may be delegated by the Board to its committees or executive management.
Decisions specifically reserved for approval by the Board are formally recorded in a document Matters Reserved to the Board, and include: Annual and Interim Report and Financial Statements: dividend policy: Board appointments: Group strategy and the annual operating budget: changes relating to the Groups capital structure: changes to the Groups management and control structure: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: treasury policies: risk management strategy: Group corporate governance policy: and environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
The matters reserved for the Board are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate and adhered to.
Board committees Board and committee structure Board committees Board of Directors General Administration Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Committee Chief Executive Management committees Group Executive Committee Engineering Finance EHS Value Chain Risk IT Excellence HR Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Manufacturing Purchasing Planning Excellence Excellence Excellence Committee Committee Committee The Board has established a number of committees to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
The principal committees are the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of these Board committees are set out in the individual Terms of Reference of each committee, which are available on the Companys website.
The roles and responsibilities of the committees along with the activities undertaken during the period are outlined in each of their respective reports found on pages 77 to 112.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees.
Only committee members are entitled to attend meetings, however, other Directors, professional advisors and members of the senior management team are able to attend when invited to do so.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued General Administration Committee The General Administration Committee is a sub-committee of the Board which comprises any two Directors of the Company, at least one of whom must be an Executive Director.
The Committee is responsible to the Board as a whole and meets as required.
The principal duties of the Committee include attending to administrative and procedural matters in relation to existing bank and finance facilities and the issue and allotment of shares under Group share plans.
It also attends to other matters of a routine manner relating to the Companys share capital, including the administration of unclaimed dividends and the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference which are periodically reviewed to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
These were last updated and approved by the Board in January 2013.
Minutes of meetings of the General Administration Committee are made available to all Directors.
Group Executive In 2013 the Group Executive comprised the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the three Divisional Managing Directors, the Director of Operations Support and Development and the Director of Human Resources.
In January 2014, Andrew Neilson joined the Group Executive as Director of Strategy and Corporate Affairs.
Biographical details of the members of the Group Executive can be found on page 66.
The Group Executive is chaired by the Chief Executive, Keith Cochrane.
In the 53 weeks ended 3 January 2014, the Group Executive met 12 times.
The Group Executive is responsible for ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
The Group Executives role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising corporate risk, and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Management committees In addition to the committees above, there exist several management committees, known as Excellence Committees.
These have been created to deal with specific areas and under their clearly defined remits they work across the Group promoting best practice and information sharing.
In 2013, two new Excellence Committees were established: the Planning Excellence Committee and the Value Chain Excellence Committee.
The Planning Excellence Committee is focussed on updating all aspects of planning across the value chain, including Sales and Operations Planning and Production Planning.
The updated and fully integrated planning model is aimed at further improving our on-time delivery to customers and reducing the level of inventory held across the Group.
The Planning Excellence Committee reports, along with the Purchasing and Manufacturing Excellence Committees, into the Value Chain Excellence Committee.
The Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive are able to delegate their responsibilities to these committees and utilise the areas of expertise contained within them.
The Excellence Committees report to the Group Executive and to the Board as required.
The composition of the various committees along with their accompanying terms of reference, the matters reserved for the Board, and delegated authority matrices combine to create a clear authority matrix across the Group for timely and effective decision-making.
This structure provides the Board with confidence that the appropriate decisions are being taken at the appropriate levels, and information flows both up and down reporting lines.
Effectiveness Board skills and attributes Skills and experience Banking & Independence Executive finance Governance International Leadership Mining Oil & gas Power 1 Charles Berry X X X X X X Keith Cochrane X X X X Alan Ferguson X X X X Melanie Gee X X X X Mary Jo Jacobi X X X X X X Rick Menell X X X X John Mogford X X X Lord Robertson X X X X Lord Smith X X X X X Jon Stanton X X X Note 1.
Charles Berry was considered independent during 2013 and on his appointment as Chairman.
The Board considers that it has the right combination of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to be useful and effective in meeting the needs of the business.
More than half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
This includes Lord Robertson who despite having served on the Board for a period of more than nine years is considered independent primarily due to his long-standing history of distinguished public service at the very highest levels.
He brings a wealth of experience to the Boards deliberations and is considered to be free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with his independent judgement.
72 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements This combination of individuals and skills ensures that the Board is sufficiently balanced such that no individual or group of individuals can dominate decision-making and allows for an effective division of responsibilities within the Board and its committees.
The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately.
Each Director devotes sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further back-up papers and information are readily available to all Directors on request to the Company Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that Non-Executive Directors are properly briefed on any issues arising at Board meetings and Non-Executive Directors have access to the Chairman at any time.
Appointment and tenure Length of tenure at 3 January 2014 Date of next election Name 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 9 years 10 years or re-election Charles Berry 1 May 2014 Keith Cochrane 1 May 2014 Alan Ferguson 1 May 2014 Melanie Gee 1 May 2014 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 May 2014 Rick Menell 1 May 2014 John Mogford 1 May 2014 Lord Robertson 1 May 2014 Jon Stanton 1 May 2014 The Executive Directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst Non-Executive Directors appointments can be terminated at any time with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
Further details can also be found in the Remuneration Report.
Mary Jo Jacobi will resign and offer herself for election at the Companys AGM on 1 May 2014.
All other Directors on the Board at 3 January 2014 will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in compliance with the Code.
Induction and ongoing training When a new Director joins the Company he or she is provided with information on the Groups structure, operations, policies and other relevant documentation.
New Directors are able to attend the Groups induction programme which provides an insight into the Groups key processes and controls.
In addition, the Board meets once a year or more at one of the Groups operational sites, which includes presentations from key senior employees and the opportunity to meet employees across the global operations.
Directors are informed of relevant material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business and their duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary advises the Board on governance matters and is available to all Directors for advice as required.
During 2013, a Non-Executive Director also gave a presentation at each of the three regional conferences for senior managers held during the year.
Additional induction and training is also available to new committee members as required.
In advance of becoming Chairman in January 2014, Charles Berry undertook a detailed induction to the Company, its operations and its employees.
Between June and December 2013, he visited 19 operational sites in America, Australia, India, The Netherlands, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, the UK and the US.
He held individual meetings with each head of department at the Weir Group Head Office in Glasgow and met with all members of the Group Executive.
He has also met with all members of the Board on a one-to-one basis.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued BOARD SITE VISIT In September 2013, the Weir Group Board visited two Weir facilities in West Yorkshire, England.
In September 2013, the Weir Group Board visited the facilities the Directors were given an overview of the recent successes of Weir Valves & Controls UK Ltd in Elland, West Yorkshire, UK.
achieved by the Europe, North Africa and Russia regions of the They learned about the production systems in place and had Minerals Division, before being given a tour of the foundry.
The a chance to inspect the new Rapid Response manufacturing cell, Todmorden foundry carries an exceptional global reputation which has been a recent key investment in order to aid customers and a significant investment was committed in 2012 to expand the with requirements for short lead time aftermarket requirements manufacturing capacity of the site to meet global demand with the and timely support for key valve applications.
The Board met construction of a new fast loop extension, which was completed with operatives and management from the plant and gained and formally opened in July 2013.
Following the tour, guest an insight into the advances made in the factory to keep pace speaker Magnus Ericsson, from IntierraRMG, presented an analyst with the increasing levels of output that the plant is delivering.
view of the mining sector to 2020, and Dean Jenkins, Divisional Managing Director, outlined the strategic plan of the Minerals The following day, the Board visited the Todmorden site of Division to 2018.
The Board then held its meeting at Todmorden Weir Minerals Europe Limited.
During the morning session, in the afternoon.
Directors and their other interests Under the Companies Act 2006, a director of a company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
The Company has a formal procedure in place to manage the disclosure, consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of any such possible conflict.
Each Director is aware of the requirement to notify the Board, via the Company Secretary, as soon as they become aware of any possible future conflict or a material change to an existing authorisation.
Upon receipt of any such notification, the Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will consider the situation before deciding whether to approve the perceived conflict.
At the outset of every Board meeting, the Chairman also checks that no new conflicts have arisen.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision and Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Director in question will then be notified of the outcome.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have any material business or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Board evaluation Following the internal review undertaken in 2012 the Board decided to consider allotting additional time to certain areas to improve its effectiveness further.
As a result, additional focus was given to reviewing talent development and related trends across the Company with a detailed review of senior succession coverage and a presentation made to the Nomination Committee by the Director of Human Resources on senior executive succession planning.
In addition, there has been increased focus on the areas of risk and strategy, particularly in relation to safety which has become a standing agenda item at every Board meeting.
74 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 s l o r t n s l o o r c t n o e t n c n e s t m e i h i n t l i o g r v i i i t v t s n c e r n a l e a e Overview Strategic Review Operational Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Board evaluation was again conducted in-house in 2013.
This was facilitated through the completion of questionnaires which focussed on areas such as the role and composition of the Board, the content and process of meetings and the roles of the committees.
In addition, the Chairman conducted individual discussions with each Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman conducted the process, assisted by the Company Secretary.
As is customary, Lord Robertson as Senior Independent Director oversaw the review of the Chairman.
The overall responses from the 2013 evaluation again generally reflected a very high level of satisfaction with the current working of the Board and its committees.
The Board considered the 2013 evaluation at both its December 2013 and January 2014 meetings.
In particular, the Board has agreed that further consideration will be giving to further improving the effective operation of the Board and of the Nomination and Audit Committees in particular.
In addition, measures will be implemented to ensure that all Board members are kept fully and directly informed of external developments in relation to the Company on a more systematic and ongoing basis.
In line with the Code, the Board intends to have external facilitation of its next Board evaluation in 2014.
Accountability The Audit Committee and auditors Details on the roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and its members can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 79 to 84.
Information on the Companys external auditors is also contained within this section.
Internal control and risk management In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance to Directors formally known as the Turnbull Guidance the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks through an internal control framework.
This process has been in place throughout 2013.
More information can be found on risk management on pages 24 to 30.
Our internal control framework has four key layers: Risks Figure 1: Internal Control Framework Functional and front line controls This includes a wide spectrum of controls as seen in most organisations, including, for example, standard operating procedures and policies: a comprehensive financial planning and reporting system, including quarterly forecasting: regular performance appraisal and training for employees: restricted access to financial systems and data: delegated authority matrices for review and approval of key transactions: protective clothing and equipment to protect our people from harm: IT and data security controls: business continuity planning: and assessment procedures for potential new recruits.
Monitoring and oversight controls There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which roles and responsibilities are articulated.
There are monitoring controls at operating company, regional, divisional and Group level, including standard key performance indicators, with action plans to address underperforming areas.
A compliance scorecard self-assessment is completed and reported by all operating companies twice per annum.
The scorecard assesses compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Financial monitoring includes comparing actual results with the forecast and prior year position on a monthly and year-to-date basis.
Significant variances are highlighted to Directors on a timely basis allowing appropriate action to be taken.
Assurance activities We obtain a wide range of assurance to provide comfort to management and the Board that our controls are providing adequate protection from risk and are operating as we would expect.
Sources of assurance include: External Audit, Internal Audit, EHS audits, Intellectual Property audits, Engineering audits, Procurement audits, IT audits, and Production System Lean audits.
The legal function is also planning to introduce a legal audit programme in 2014.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 75 r o u c v t n o r l u a c f r & & u l s g & a s c i n A h i l t E r a o t i n n o o M i t c n u F Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Continued The various audit teams plan their activities on a risk basis, ensuring resources are directed at the areas of greatest need.
Issues and recommendations to enhance controls are reported to management to ensure timely action can be taken, with oversight provided from the relevant governance committees, including the Audit Committee and the Excellence Committees.
Ethical and cultural environment We are committed to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
This is supported by the Weir values which are the core behaviours we expect our people to live by in their working lives.
The Weir Code of Conduct also contributes to our culture, providing a high benchmark by which we expect our business to be conducted.
Any examples of unethical behaviour are dealt with robustly and promptly.
The Ethics section detailed in the Sustainability Review on page 61 provides more details on the Groups activities to promote ethical behaviour.
The Groups internal control procedures described above and on page 82 of the Audit Committee Report do not cover joint venture interests.
We have Board representation on each of our joint venture companies where separate, albeit similar, internal control frameworks have been adopted.
Remuneration Details of the Companys Remuneration Committee, including its roles, responsibilities and members are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 85 to 112.
The Remuneration Report also details the Companys remuneration policy and the remuneration received by Directors in 2013.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors.
Through this programme the Company has directly engaged with 528 investors in 2013 either face-to-face or via telephone or video-conferencing.
Other areas where the Company engages with shareholders include attendance at investor conferences held by the financial community and roadshows and Investor Relations events held by the Company, of which there were 20 during the year held in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, The Netherlands, Sweden, the UK, and the US.
The Company holds an annual capital markets day, which this year was held in London in June.
This event allows shareholders to meet the broader management team and to gain a more in-depth understanding of one business or one aspect of the business.
The capital markets day this year focussed on progress in our Power & Industrial division and initiatives relating to procurement and supplier development.
During the period under review, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with analysts or institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Each of the other Non-Executive Directors is also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Our brokers and public relations advisors undertake investor roadshow feedback which is shared with the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders.
The primary means of communicating with the Companys shareholders are the Weir Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report.
Both are available on the Companys website and the Annual Report is posted out to all shareholders who elect to receive it.
Copies are available upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Board recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and a Group website is maintained to facilitate communications with shareholders.
As well as the Interim and Annual Report, the website contains information on the business of the Company and corporate governance, all Group press releases and Company news, key dates in the financial calendar and other important shareholder information.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees can also be found on the website.
The Board is committed to the constructive use of the Annual General Meeting as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The 2014 AGM is to be held on Thursday 1 May 2014 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions relevant to the work of those Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantive issue at the AGM.
Details on proxy voting will be contained in the proxy form and the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders and the Chairman will also advise shareholders at the meeting.
Electronic proxy voting is available and details of this are also included in the Notice of Meeting.
76 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
