Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Audit Committee report 47 Audit Committee report Simon Melliss conjunction with an Internal Controls Effectiveness Review from PwC as operational auditor.
Each risk is assessed and Chairman of the Audit Committee the level of assurance required is determined.
The Audit Committee then approves a plan from PwC to carry out reviews of the chosen areas during the following year.
As part of its duty to review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal controls, this year the Members of the Audit Committee: Committee: Simon Melliss Chairman Susan Hooper received updates from the IS Director on the status of Richard Baker Susan Taylor Martin the security in the Companys information systems in the Wendy Becker Simon Barratt Secretary context of general concerns about cyber attacks and personal information: Role of the Audit Committee reviewed a revised method of carrying out the internal The principal role of the Audit Committee is the review controls evaluation and reporting to the Committee: and of the Companys financial results and internal controls.
The received reports from management and PwC on controls Committee meets three times a year, and will hold additional in a support centre function and made recommendations meetings as and when required.
The full terms of reference for improvements to various internal processes.
are available on the Companys website.
Further information on risk management can be found Financial results on pages 34 to 37.
The Committee agrees the scope of the years audit, the areas of focus, the engagement letter and the fees of the Auditor Committee duties at a meeting in October each year.
At the meeting in April, it Other Committee duties which are carried out during the receives presentations from the Group Finance Director and year are: the lead auditor on the financial results for the fullyear, any reviewing the speaking out facility which enables genuine important judgements or estimates made in the process, any issues concerning the Company to be raised anonymously points of difference identified in the audit and any outstanding and without fear of reprisal.
A summary report of the work to be done before an unqualified opinion will be given.
matters raised and the findings of the investigations is also At the same meeting the Committee reviews the RNS considered by the Committee: and announcement of the results, a going concern statement and other important elements from the preparation of the confirming that the terms of reference of the Committee accounts, including the management representation letter.
remain up to date and in line with good corporate This is all reported to the next Board meeting.
A similar process takes place at the Committees meeting Changes relating to the Audit Committee in the 2012 Code in October for the halfyear results although this is not subject The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have to a full audit.
been revised to provide for: the Committee reporting to the Board on how it has At both of the meetings described above the Committee discharged its responsibilities: and meets with the external and the operational auditors without the management team being present to give an opportunity the external audit contract to go out to tender at least every ten years.
for any issues to be raised.
During the early part of the year the Committee will be Auditor reviewing the requirements of the 2012 Code in relation to The Committee oversees the relationship with the external the review of the report and accounts on behalf of the Board.
Each year there is a review of the performance of It will then put in place the appropriate processes that will the external auditor and its independence and effectiveness.
enable this to be completed.
The Audit Committee carried out a competitive tender of the external audit in 2010 11 and recommended that Ernst Signed and approved on behalf of the Board.
As the lead partner has been in the position for five years, a new lead partner will be appointed in 2013 14.
This rotation will maintain the objectivity and independence of the Groups external auditor.
Internal controls Simon Melliss The Audit Committee holds an annual evaluation of internal controls in March.
The Committee reviews the Group risk Chairman, Audit Committee matrix and assesses the effectiveness of the internal processes that have been implemented to enable those risks 29 April 2013 to be mitigated and monitored.
This review is completed in
