Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Nomination Committee report 48 Nomination Committee report Anthony Habgood Our approach to the annual reelection of directors Chairman of the As required by the Code, all directors will be subject to Nomination reelection at the next AGM.
The Nomination Committee held Committee a planning and review meeting in March when the contribution and commitment of each member of the Board was reviewed.
Following this discussion it was recommended that all directors be proposed for reappointment at this years AGM.
Details setting out why each director is deemed to be suitable Members of the Nomination Committee for reappointment will be included with the AGM papers circulated to all shareholders.
Anthony Habgood Chairman Ian Cheshire Simon Melliss second threeyear term came to an end Simon Melliss in April 2013.
In view of Simons strong leadership of the Stephen Williams Audit Committee and his contribution generally to Board Simon Barratt Secretary discussions, the Nomination Committee was satisfied that his reappointment would be beneficial to the Company, and recommended that he be reappointed for a further Nomination Committee main activities in 2012 13 threeyear period.
No other nonexecutive director of the Selection and appointment process for a new Group Finance Director, current Board has been a director for a term longer than leading to the recommendation that Nicholas Cadbury be appointed six years.
Recommendation to appoint Louise Smalley, Group HR Director In accordance with the Code, none of the executive directors to the Board.
has more than one nonexecutive directorship in a FTSE 100 Annual planning and review meeting.
company or a chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
Review of the Board size, structure and composition.
Review of the talent and succession planning for the Board.
Changes relating to the Nomination Committee in the 2012 Code Following the changes in the 2012 Code, the terms of Role of the Nomination Committee reference of the Nomination Committee have been revised The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the and approved by the Board.
These changes reflect the composition of the Board and to identify and nominate inclusion of gender when reviewing the structure, size and directors who could enhance the Boards performance.
The Committee is also responsible for evaluating the directors on an annual basis.
In accordance with the 2012 Code, it is intended that the 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts will include The Committee meets twice a year to review its terms a description of the Boards policy on diversity, including of reference, and consider the annual reelection of directors.
gender, any measurable objectives that it has set for Additional meetings are held as and when required for implementing the policy, and progress on achieving the the selection and appointment process of new directors.
The full terms of reference are available on the Companys Signed and approved on behalf of the Board.
