Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 38 Corporate governance Introduction from Anthony Habgood, Chairman Details of how Whitbread has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code with regard to remuneration Corporate governance is something that touches all aspects of our business and affects all of our employees in many can be found in the remuneration report on pages 49 to 63. different ways.
Whitbread is committed to maintaining high Details of the membership and activities of the Remuneration standards in this area to ensure that the Company is managed Committee can be found on page 52. with integrity and transparency.
Maintaining high standards of corporate governance is key Although corporate governance flows through all of our to supporting our financial performance and protecting your operations, the Board takes responsibility for leading on high Company.
Simon Barratt, our General Counsel and Company standards of accountability and ethical behaviour.
The 2010 Secretary, provides further details in the pages ahead on UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was applicable how Whitbread complied this year in the following areas: in 2012 13 and is the standard against which we measured the Board: ourselves.
In order to ensure our compliance we undertook a thorough review of our arrangements including our: shareholder relations: overall compliance with the Code with respect to business internal control: and and corporate practices: Board committees.
matters reserved to the Board: and Corporate governance is an area that continues to change terms of reference for each of the three Board committees.
Next year we will be reviewing the way in which the Audit Committee reports to the Board on how it has The results of this review were presented at the January carried out its responsibilities and developing the new form Board meeting and formally adopted by the Board.
We are of remuneration report.
pleased to report that the Company complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
We keep all developments under review and will always aim for a level of governance that is appropriate and relevant The 2012 Corporate Governance Code the 2012 Code to the Company.
will apply to the Company in 2013 14, but we have decided to adopt some of the new principles and provisions early to ensure that we maintain our high standards.
These changes are reflected in the reports of the Audit and Nomination committees which can be found on pages 47 and 48.
Anthony Habgood During the year, other key activities have included: Chairman an internal evaluation of the Board: 29 April 2013 a talent review and succession plan for key executive roles: and the appointment of two new executive directors.
Diversity and equality have always been core values at Whitbread.
The Board believes that diversity is highly important, not only for board effectiveness but for the effectiveness of the Company as a whole.
Whitbread appoints members of the Board on the basis of qualification and merit and does not discriminate on any grounds.
We are committed to an active policy of equal opportunities and embrace diversity at all levels.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 39 Corporate governance continued The Board Board agenda 2012 13 During the year the Board considered the following matters: Who is on the Board of Directors?
There are 13 members of the Board including the Chairman, Standing agenda items Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director.
Chief Executives report Internal controls quarterly Finance Directors report Secretariat report Two new directors have been appointed during the course of Health and safety report Approval of major capital the year.
In November 2012, Nicholas Cadbury was appointed quarterly projects to the Board as the new Group Finance Director and Louise Smalley joined the Board as Group Human Resources Director.
Q1 Q2 While each of Nicholas and Louise have expertise within their Approval of Annual Report Premier Inn International update function, they also use their experience to contribute to wider and Accounts Pensions update debates at Board level including on operational matters.
Approval of yearend Capital investment review announcement Costa Retail update As you can see below, we have provided information on the Costa EMEI update Dynamic pricing update mix of skills and experience represented on the Board.
The Talent review Board brings together individuals with a diverse range of Dynamic pricing strategy experience, which contributes to a positive culture of mutual Whitbread Hotels & respect and constructive challenge.
Restaurants update Good Together targets Biographical details of each of the directors can be found on pages 40 and 41.
Q3 Q4 Olympics operational review Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants update Good Together activity Pensions auto enrolment Interim results 2013 14 budget Premier Inn International projects Costa Retail update Costa Asia update Corporate governance review Composition of the Board Processed meat health and safety review Chairman: 1 Executive directors: 5 Board experience Independent Number of directors Number of directors nonexecutive directors: 7 Retail sector 5 International 11 Male: 9 Travel and hospitality sector 5 Commercial property 2 Female: 4 Marketing 3 Technology 2 Legal 1 Human Resources 2 Financial 6 Length of tenure of directors Anthony Habgood Andy Harrison Nicholas Cadbury Patrick Dempsey Christopher Rogers Louise Smalley Richard Baker Wendy Becker Ian Cheshire Susan Hooper Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Stephen Williams 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 40 Board of Directors Anthony Habgood Andy Harrison Stephen Williams Chairman Chief Executive Senior Independent Director since August 2005 Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: September 2010 April 2008 May 2005 Age: 55 Age: 65 Age: 66 Experience: Experience: Experience: Andy served as Chief Executive Stephen retired as General Counsel Between 1991 and 2009 Anthony of easyJet plc from 2005 to 2010 and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever served first as Chief Executive and was Chief Executive of RAC plc during 2010, having originally and then as Chairman of Bunzl plc.
previously Lex Services plc from joined them in 1986.
Prior to that, Prior to that he had served as 1996 to 2005.
Prior to this, he held Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial Chief Executive of Tootal Group plc the roles of Managing Director of Chemical Industries plc.
From 1995 and as a director of the Boston Courtaulds International Fabrics to 2004 he was a nonexecutive Consulting Group Inc.
In addition, and Finance Director of Courtaulds director of Bunzl plc and from Anthony has held the role of Textiles plc.
Andy has also held 2004 to 2010 he was Senior Chairman of Mlnlycke Healthcare a nonexecutive directorship at Independent Director of Arriva plc.
UK Limited and nonexecutive Emap plc, where he was Chairman He joined the Board of Croda directorships at Geest plc, of the Audit Committee.
International Plc in 2010 as a Marks and Spencer Group plc, nonexecutive director.
National Westminster Bank Plc, External appointments: SVG Capital plc and Powergen plc.
Croda International Plc External appointments: Nonexecutive director Reed Elsevier plc and NV Eversheds LLP Chairman Nonexecutive director Preqin Holding Limited Moorfields Eye Hospital Chairman NHS Trust Trustee Norwich Research Park Committee membership: Chairman Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Susan Hooper Richard Baker Wendy Becker Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive director director director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: September 2011 September 2009 January 2008 Age: 53 Age: 50 Age: 47 Experience: Experience: Experience: Susan was Senior VP, EMEA Richard is Chairman of Virgin Wendy is the Chief Operating at Royal Caribbean Cruises Active Group and DFS Furniture Officer of Jack Wills Limited.
International, where she also Holdings Plc as well as Chairman Previously, she was Group Chief represented them on the Board of the European Advisory Board Marketing Officer for Vodafone, of First Choice Holidays PLC.
Richard previously Managing Director of TalkTalk and Prior to that she worked at Pepsico served as Chief Executive of a partner at McKinsey & Company.
International for nine years, living Alliance Boots Group plc and External appointments: and working in several central Chief Operating Officer at Asda Jack Wills Limited European countries.
Chief Operating Officer previously served as a non External appointments: Cancer Research Trustee executive director of Transcom, Virgin Active Group Limited Princes Trust Council Trustee Royal & Sun Alliance and Nonexecutive Chairman English National Ballet Trustee Courtaulds Textiles.
European Advisory Board, Aimia Committee membership: External appointments: Chairman Audit Committee Acromas Travel Chief Executive DFS Furniture Holdings Plc Remuneration Committee Nonexecutive Chairman Committee membership: Advent International Plc Audit Committee Operating Partner Committee membership: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 41 Christopher Rogers Nicholas Cadbury Louise Smalley Patrick Dempsey OBE Managing Director Group Finance Director Group HR Director Managing Director Costa Coffee Whitbread Hotels Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: November 2012 November 2012 & Restaurants Date of appointment to the Board: May 2005 Age: 47 Age: 45 Date of appointment to the Board: January 2009 Age: 53 Experience: Experience: Nicholas joined Whitbread in Louise joined Whitbread in 1995 Age: 54 Experience: November 2012 as Group Finance and has held the position as Christopher joined Whitbread Experience: Director.
He previously worked at Group Human Resources Director over eight years ago as Group Patrick joined Whitbread in 2004 Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of since 2007.
During her time Finance Director, a role he held as Managing Director of Marriott management roles, including Chief at Whitbread Louise has held until November 2012.
He was in the UK, and has worked in the Financial Officer from 20082011. a variety of HR roles across the appointed Managing Director hotel and restaurant business Nicholas also held the position of Whitbread businesses, including of Costa Coffee in July 2012. for 30 years.
He was with Forte Chief Financial Officer of Premier HR Director of David Lloyd Christopher previously worked Hotels for 20 years, prior to joining Farnell PLC, which he joined in 2011. Leisure and Whitbread Hotels at Woolworths Group plc where Compass Group as Chief Executive Nicholas originally qualified as an & Restaurants.
She previously he was Finance Director and of Restaurant Associates.
In 2005, accountant with Price Waterhouse.
worked in the oil industry, also held the position of Patrick became Managing Director with BP and Esso Petroleum.
Chairman of the Woolworths of Premier Inn and is now Managing Group Entertainment business.
External appointments: Director of Whitbread Hotels & He originally qualified as an People 1st Trustee Restaurants.
accountant with Price Waterhouse External appointments: before joining Kingfisher plc in Talent & Skills Business 1988.
Christopher held a number in the Community Leadership of roles in his time at Kingfisher, Team Member including Group Financial Hospitality Action Trustee Controller, Finance Director British Hospitality Association and Commercial Director Director of Comet Group plc.
Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity Corporate Partnerships Board Member Simon Melliss Susan Taylor Martin Ian Cheshire Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive Independent nonexecutive director director director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: April 2007 January 2012 February 2011 Age: 60 Age: 49 Age: 53 Experience: Experience: Experience: Simon, a chartered accountant, Susan is Managing Director, UKI Ian is Group Chief Executive was Chief Financial Officer of Legal at Thomson Reuters.
Other of Kingfisher Plc, having Hammerson plc from 1995 to roles she held at that company previously served as Chief 2011, having originally joined the include: President Media, Executive of B&Q UK from company in 1991 as Group Financial President Global Investment June 2005.
Prior to that he served Focus Accounts and Managing Kingfisher in 1998 he worked as the Group Financial Controller Director UK and Ireland within for a number of retail businesses of Sketchley PLC, and held senior Thomson Reuters Markets.
finance positions with Reed Prior to this she was Global Head, External appointments: International.
Simon also previously Corporate Strategy for Reuters, Kingfisher Plc held a nonexecutive directorship which she joined in 1993.
Group Chief Executive at Associated British Ports External appointments: British Retail Consortium Holdings plc.
Thomson Reuters Chairman External appointments: Managing Director, UKI Legal Cambridge Programme for Hermes Property Unit Trust Confederation of British Industry Sustainability Leadership Chairman Chair, London Council Chairman of Advisory Board University College London Department for Work and Committee membership: Treasurer and member Pensions Lead nonexecutive Audit Committee of the Council director Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 42 Corporate International everyday governance Costa has 253 stores in China, having continued added 89 in the last year.
What were the key activities of the Board this year?
The Board has a rolling agenda which sets out matters to The Board generally holds meetings at monthly intervals be considered throughout the year.
This allows all directors during the year and on an ad hoc basis as and when required.
to contribute to the setting of the agenda.
Having a rolling Ten meetings were held last year.
Attendance at meetings agenda ensures that there is a structured approach to the by directors is set out below: consideration of recurring issues with such items being evenly spread across the calendar.
The rolling agenda is structured Meeting attendance such that the Board gives its attention to each area of the business in turn so that a strong understanding of the entire Audit Nomination Remuneration Company is maintained.
This year, the Board has considered Board Committee Committee Committee a range of matters, details of which can be found on page 39.
Anthony Habgood 10 10 4 4 5 5 There is a schedule of matters reserved exclusively to the Andy Harrison 10 10 Board.
These matters include: Nicholas Cadbury 3 3 approval of Group financial statements and the preliminary Patrick Dempsey 10 10 announcement of half and fullyear results: Christopher Rogers 10 10 changes relating to the Groups capital structure: Louise Smalley 3 3 Richard Baker 10 10 2 3 5 5 the annual budget and the Groups business plan: Wendy Becker 10 10 2 3 5 5 approving acquisitions and disposals valued at over Ian Cheshire 10 10 3 3 5 5 12 million: Susan Hooper 9 10 1 3 interim dividends and recommendation of final dividends: Simon Melliss 10 10 3 3 4 4 establishment of Board committees, terms of reference Susan Taylor Martin 10 10 3 3 and membership of Board committees: and Stephen Williams 10 10 4 4 5 5 maintaining sound risk management and internal control Members of the executive team attended committee meetings as systems.
Anthony Habgood is not a member of the Audit Committee but attended all three meetings during the year.
The schedule of matters reserved was reviewed at the When appointed to the Audit Committee it was known that Susan Hooper January 2013 Board meeting and is available on our website.
had prior commitments for the March and April meetings.
Susan received the papers and provided feedback for the meetings.
How and why did the Board appoint new executive directors this year?
A set of Board papers, including monthly financial and trading As stated in the 2011 12 Annual Report and Accounts, reports, is circulated in advance of each meeting so that when Christopher Rogers was appointed Managing Director directors have sufficient time to review them and arrive at of Costa Coffee, it was necessary for the Board to appoint the meeting fully prepared.
The Nomination Committee began by considering the specification of a Group Finance The agenda for each Board meeting is agreed with the Director and any additional skills and experience that required Chairman and the Chief Executive so that current events and increased representation on the Board.
The Committee potential future issues can be discussed alongside the regular then prepared a description of the capabilities required.
An external search consultant, Spencer Stuart, was engaged and a number of candidates were identified.
Selected At each meeting, the Board starts with a review of the minutes candidates met with the Nomination Committee and further from the previous meeting, matters arising and progress interviews led to the appointment of Nicholas Cadbury on action points.
This is followed by reports from the Chief as the new Group Finance Director.
Executive, the Finance Director and the Managing Directors of Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and Costa describing the operational and functional performance.
Reports from the specific parts of the business and new business opportunities are presented before a review of the secretariat report which sets out any updates on best practice and corporate legislation.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 43 Corporate governance continued A review of Board composition and the importance of the Induction process 40,000 team members to the success of the Company In the 2011 12 Annual Report we provided detail on the led to the conclusion that the Company would benefit from induction process for the new independent nonexecutive the appointment of the Group HR Director to the Board.
In 2012 13 we appointed two new executive The appointment of Louise demonstrates the importance directors.
of people development and talent planning at Whitbread.
The induction process for Nicholas Cadbury was full, formal How does the Board keep up to date with new and tailored, focusing on Whitbreads businesses.
meetings were held with the Chairman, Chief Executive, A monthly report, prepared by the Company Secretary, Group HR Director, all executive and nonexecutive is presented at each Board meeting.
This report provides directors, and the Company Secretary.
This was followed updates on corporate legislation and best practice on by time with: matters including corporate governance.
the finance director of each business: Formal training events were attended by Board members the IT and Digital Directors: during the year on a range of issues including: workshops on succession planning, remuneration and corporate the Communications Director: and governance.
Investor relations and market updates were the Pensions Director.
also considered by the Board.
The Companys auditor also prepared a paper for the Board on the key developments Nicholas met with a number of major investors and sell in accounting and governance practice.
side analysts of the Company.
Meetings were also held with the Groups bankers, auditors, lawyers and advisers.
All directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors serving on Board Nicholas was provided with a detailed review of all committees confirmed they are satisfied that they receive of our businesses and went on several visits to different sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties Premier Inn, Restaurant and Costa sites.
Each director has access to the Company a day working in a restaurant and completed a tour Secretary for advice on governance.
This provided valuable insight into the Company and allowed Nicholas to develop his How does the Board identify and consider directors understanding of each business.
Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of interest The induction process for Louise was comprehensive and immediately as and when they arise throughout the year.
tailored, focussing on the key responsibilities and duties In addition, a formal process is undertaken each year in of directors.
Louise already had a detailed knowledge February when each director confirms to the Board details of Whitbreads businesses so focused on meeting with of their external interests including any other directorships the Groups advisers, including brokers for a briefing on which they hold.
shareholder engagement, and the Companys lawyers on the responsibilities of directors.
These are assessed by the Board to determine whether the directors ability to act in the best interests of the Company Training and development goes well beyond the induction could be compromised.
If there are no such potential or actual process and is an ongoing process for all Board members.
conflicts, the external interests are authorised by the Board.
All authorisations are for a period of 12 months.
No director is counted as part of a quorum in respect of the authorisation How is the independence of directors assessed?
of his or her own conflict situation.
The Board has a majority of independent nonexecutive directors.
Independence is assessed annually against the It is recognised that all organisations are potential customers Code.
None of the provisions listed in the Code which may of Whitbread and, in view of this, the Board has authorised compromise independence apply to any of Whitbreads all directors current external directorships.
As such, the Board concluded that all of the nonexecutive directors are independent.
Does the Company have appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors?
The Company has appropriate directors and officers liability insurance in place.
In addition to this, the Company provides an indemnity for directors against the costs of defending certain legal proceedings.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 44 Corporate governance continued What are each of the Board members responsible for?
All Board members have responsibilities in the areas of strategy, performance, risk and people.
Specific duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive are set out below: Chairman Chief Executive Leadership of the Board and setting its agenda including Optimising the performance of the Company.
approval of the Groups strategy, business plans, annual Ensuring effective communication with shareholders budget and key areas of business importance.
Maintaining contact with major shareholders and ensuring The creation of shareholder value by delivering that Board members understand their views concerning profitable growth and a good return on capital.
Ensuring the Company has a strong team of high Ensuring a culture of openness and debate around the calibre executives, and putting in place appropriate Board table.
management succession and development plans.
Leading the annual evaluation of the Board, the committees Leading the activities of the Whitbread Leadership and individual directors.
Forum a group of the Companys most senior Ensuring, through the General Counsel, that the members executives.
of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The role of the Senior Independent Director The conclusions of the review were that the directors were The Senior Independent Director provides a sounding board aligned in their view that the Board functioned well and for the Chairman and supports him in the delivery of his received appropriate information to consider the main objectives.
The Senior Independent Director is available to strategic items.
shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate to raise Areas of discussion were: with the Chairman or the executive team.
He also leads the the presentation of the WINcard at Board meetings: and evaluation of the Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
contact with the Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants The role of the executive directors International Board.
The executive directors are responsible for the daytoday running of the business and for implementing the operational In response to last years evaluation, the following action strategic plans of the Company.
has been taken: an annual update on relevant regulatory, accounting The role of the nonexecutive directors and legal issues from the auditor: The nonexecutive directors play a key role in constructively challenging and scrutinising the performance of the a planning and review meeting of the Nomination Committee is held on an annual basis: and management of the Company.
meetings have been held at different Company sites, and How is performance evaluated?
in November 2013 the Board will travel to India and the Board and committees: Middle East to attend a Board meeting and review new An annual evaluation of the Board and committees is carried developments in these markets.
Last year an external evaluation was held and this year it was conducted internally.
In accordance with the Code, we intend to have an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board at least every three years.
This years evaluation had two aspects: each director completed a formal questionnaire on Individual directors: the performance of the Board and each of the Board The Chairman has onetoone meetings with each director committees: and to discuss their performance.
the Chairman met or spoke to all directors on a Chairman: onetoone basis.
Each year the Senior Independent Director meets with the nonexecutive directors without the Chairman present to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director also speaks with the executive directors to gain their views before discussing the results with the Chairman.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 45 Corporate Smart everyday governance We continue to invest in Costa: 120 stores continued have been refurbished this year.
Shareholder relations As in previous years, all voting by shareholders will be by poll using electronic handsets.
The voting results, including proxy How does the Company interact with shareholders?
votes received, will be displayed on a screen at the end of the All shareholders: meeting.
In addition, the audited poll results will be disclosed The Company communicates with both institutional on the Companys website following the meeting, and announced through the regulatory news service.
and private shareholders through the following means: the Companys website www.
co. uk, where The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, relating to information and news is regularly updated: the share capital of the Company can be found within the the Annual Report, which sets out details of the Companys directors report on pages 64 to 67. strategy, business models and performance over the past financial year and plans for future growth: Internal control the Annual General Meeting, where all shareholders have How does the Company maintain adequate systems the opportunity to vote on the resolutions proposed and of internal control?
to put questions to the executive team: and The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal presentations of full and halfyear results to analysts and control and risk management, and for reviewing their shareholders and these are available on the Companys effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather website.
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, all shareholders are able to contact the Company via the website, email, telephone or post to raise issues.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Company also takes opportunities to interact more evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This process was in place throughout the 2012 13 financial year directly with institutional and private shareholders.
and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly Institutional shareholders: reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director guidance for directors in the Code.
A report of the key risks of Investor Relations held meetings with institutional can be found on pages 34 to 37. investors following the fullyear and interim results: Risk analysis the Chairman met institutional shareholders on request: The Board identifies the principal risks of the Company on a the Board received updates on the views of major regular basis and throughout the year it reviews the actions shareholders from the Companys brokers: and in place to mitigate the risks together with assurance and monitoring activity.
The analysis covers health and safety, Investor Days will take place in July and December this year.
financial, market, operational and reputational risks which the Company may face as well as specific areas identified Private shareholders: in the business plan and budget process.
live webcast presentations of the annual and interim results: and Each of the businesses also carries out its own risk analysis together with PwC as operational auditor and this is electronic communications with shareholders including use reviewed regularly by the management boards.
of the online share portal.
All major capital and revenue projects, together with How are shareholders able to participate in the AGM?
significant change programmes, include the consideration In accordance with the Code, the Notice of AGM and related of the risks involved and an appropriate action plan.
papers are sent to the shareholders at least 20 working The scope of the audit agreed with Ernst & Young will days before the meeting.
The Company proposes a separate identify the specific financial risks facing the Group.
resolution on each substantially separate issue including a specific resolution to approve the report and accounts.
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to vote in advance of the AGM if they are unable to attend in person.
All valid proxy votes received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted by Whitbreads registrars.
Overview p1 7 Strategy Operational highlights p8 37 Governance p38 67 Consolidated accounts p69 114 Company accounts p115 122 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Corporate governance 46 Corporate governance continued Controls Ernst & Young review and report on the significant issues identified in their audit report and liaise with PwC in The Company reviews and confirms its compliance with the Corporate Governance Code on an annual basis.
covering the agreed areas of risk throughout the year.
The matters reserved to the Board require that major An internal control evaluation process is overseen by the projects and programmes must have specific Board management team which assesses the level of compliance approval.
with the controls, policies and processes and the results are reviewed and tested on a sample basis by PwC.
Limits of delegations and authority are prescribed to ensure that the appropriate approvals are obtained if Board Postcompletion reviews of major projects and investments authority is not required to ensure appropriate segregation are carried out and reported on to the Board.
Going concern Group financial policies controls and procedures are in The directors going concern statement can be found in the place and regularly reviewed and updated.
The Whitbread Code of Conduct, setting out required levels of ethics and behaviour, is communicated to employees.
Business model and strategy Information on the Groups business model and strategy The Code of Conduct makes reference to specific policies can be found on pages 8 to 25. and procedures which have to be followed.
Management is responsible for ensuring the appropriate Board Committees The Board is supported by three committees: the Audit maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure that financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance Committee, the Nomination Committee and the with applicable laws and regulations and is distributed both Remuneration Committee.
Their terms of reference are internally and externally in a timely manner.
reviewed annually and updated in line with best practice.
They have been updated in 2013 to reflect certain of the A review of the financial statements is completed by changes in the 2012 Code.
They are available in full on the management to ensure that the financial position and Companys website.
results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is subject A detailed report from the Chairman of the Remuneration to the approval of the Audit Committee and the Board.
Committee is set out on pages 49 to 63.
Reports for the Audit and Nomination Committees can be found on pages 47 and An annual review of internal controls is undertaken by the 48 respectively.
Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee.
Assurance The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, approves an audit programme which ensures that the significant areas of risk identified are independently reviewed within at least a threeyear period.
The programme and the results of the audits are regularly assessed during the year.
The Audit Committee reviews the major findings from both the operational and external audits.
PwC, as operational auditor, has been appointed to carry out the independent audits.
Its reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee and on a monthly basis by the management team to ensure that the actions required to address issues identified are implemented.
PwC reports annually to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls across the Group.
