William Hill PLC 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT NBS fees incurred for 2013 were 282,708 Committee activity during the year Advice to the Committee excluding VAT.
The following table sets out the major During 2013, the Committee consulted issues covered by the Committee over Ralph Topping, Chief Executive, Neil NBS are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and are signatories thecourse of the year: Cooper, Group Finance Director and David Russell, Group Director, Human to its Code of Conduct.
The Committee monitors the relationship with external January 2013 Resources about remuneration items Consider senior relating to individuals other than advisers on a regular basis and remains confident that NBS is independent and management remuneration themselves.
Legal advice was also taken as appropriate from Thomas noconflicts of interest exist.
Luke Thomas, Approve 2012 Group bonus The Committee received certain legal Company Secretary, also provided advice during the year from Pinsent payments and 2013 EBMS awards corporate governance advice and support Masons LLP Pinsent Masons.
Approve William Hill Online 2012 to the Committee.
Appropriate Company Pinsent Masons is on the Companys bonus and LTIP payments employees and external advisers may legal panel, having most recently been attend Committee Meetings at the Release of 2010 EBMS awards and re-appointed to the panel following a approval of any matching shares invitation of the Chair.
re-tender process at the end of 2013.
Implications for share awards in view As a member of the Companys legal External advisors of the rights issue panel, Pinsent Masons advises the 2013 bonus, EBMS and PSP The Committee was advised during Company on a number of areas, designs & communications the year by New Bridge Street NBS, including on share plans and incentives.
NBS was Approve 2012 Directors Pinsent Masons provided legal advice appointed by the Company following a Remuneration Report specifically to the Committee in connection competitive tender in 2012.
Aon Plc, NBSs with a single issue only, being the impact Consideration of future parent company, is also the worldwide of the 2013 Rights Issue on the incentive policy insurance broker for William Hill.
May 2013 NBS provided advice in respect of the Pinsent Masons fees incurred for its Adjusting EPS & PSP targets due to remuneration review covering a wide range advice to the Committee for 2013 were the rights issue of issues.
These included the structure 8,500 excluding VAT.
Performance targets for 2013 PSP and quantum of remuneration, advice and EBMS awards on short-term and long-term incentive performance conditions and targets, July 2013 share ownership guidelines, Committee Incentive arrangements for 2014 discretion, assistance with drafting the first proposals remuneration report in line with new TSR methodology and determination reporting regulations, executive director of vesting remuneration and non-executive chairman Chairmans fee on re-appointment fee benchmark data, TSR performance monitoring updates and advice on the Remuneration packages for selected implications of the 2013 Rights Issue senior executives on incentives.
Consideration of impact of new voting and reporting proposals on pay October 2013 Updated 2014 incentive proposals Latest developments in corporate governance Review of reporting requirements for 2013 Directors Remuneration Report November 2013 Final 2014 incentive proposals Annual bonus and long-term incentives performance updates Consideration of recruitment policy December 2013 2014 incentive proposals shareholder consultation planning Approval of vesting of 2011 CEO retention award 2013 Directors Remuneration Report drafting VAT of 20% was paid on the advisors fees shown above which William Hill does not reclaim.
