William Hill PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RepORT Of THe AUDIT AND RISk MANAgeMeNT COMMITTee The Chairman of the Committee, meet with the executive directors and David Lowden, has recent and relevant management, as well as privately with financial experience.
He is a chartered both the external and internal auditors: accountant and has previously held and senior financial positions within other report to shareholders annually on its international companies.
David Edmonds, role and responsibilities.
Ashley Highfield, and Imelda Walsh are all financially literate and have significant The Chairman of the Audit and Risk the Committee oversees the general business experience of Management Committee reports to the effeCtiveness of the Groups executive roles in both private and public Board on the outcome of meetings.
finanCial reportinG, internal organisations and details of each directors Control and risk manaGement.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy significant current and prior appointments it also oversees the relationship and procedure for staff to raise issues are set out on pages 50 and 51. of the eXternal auditor, regarding possible improprieties in matters monitors the inteGrity of the of financial reporting or other matters is in Role of the Audit and Risk Groups finanCial statements place and has operating during the year.
Management Committee and the effeCtiveness of the It is the responsibility of the Committee internal audit funCtion.
to monitor its effectiveness and any A full copy of the terms of reference for notifications made.
the Committee can be obtained via the website www.
com or The Committee has access to the services Membership and meetings by request to the Company Secretary.
of the Internal Audit and Company The Committees principal responsibilities Set out below is the current membership Secretarial departments and is authorised are to: of the Audit and Risk Management to obtain independent professional advice Committee together with the year in if it considers it necessary.
review and advise the Board on the which membership commenced.
Groups interim and annual financial During the year, all the members of the statements, its accounting policies and Main activities during 2013 Committee were independent Nonto monitor the integrity of the financial The Committee has discharged its executive Directors.
statements and announcements relating responsibilities during the year by to financial performance: Year of performing the following activities.
Director appointment assist the Board as necessary in David Lowden, Chairman 2011 Financial statements ensuring that the Companys Annual During the year, the Committee David Edmonds 2005 Report and Accounts is fair, balanced reviewed and discussed the financial Ashley Highfield 2009 and understandable in accordance disclosures made in the preliminary Imelda Walsh 2011 with applicable legislation and results announcement, Annual Report governance recommendations: and Accounts, Interim Management The Company Secretary acts as secretary review the major risks affecting the Statement and the other trading to the Committee.
Other individuals Group and assist the Board with statements made by the Group together attend at the request of the Committee reviewing the effectiveness of the with any related management letters, Chairman and during the year the external controls operating over the Groups letters of representation and reports from auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, financial and non-financial risks: the external auditors.
Significant financial Group Finance Director, Group General reporting issues and judgments were Counsel, Group Director of Audit and Risk, review the nature and scope of the considered together with any significant Head of Group Audit, Head of IT Audit work to be performed by the external accounting policies and changes and the Group Financial Controller would and internal auditors, the result of that proposed to them.
usually attend all or some of the meetings work and managements response, and to report to the Committee and provide their effectiveness: clarification and explanations where appropriate.
The Committee also meets oversee the relationship with the external auditors including making with the external auditors without executive management present on a regular basis.
recommendations to the Board regarding their appointment or removal The Committee met on six occasions during the year and details of attendance and developing a policy regarding the provision of non-audit services at Committee meetings is set out on page54.
The Committee is also responsible for overseeing the tender of external audit services in accordance with applicable legislation or good governance: William Hill PLC 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Internal control and risk management The Committee regularly reviews the The main areas covered by the survey The Committee reviewed the Groups Groups written policy regarding the were in respect of Deloittes: internal control and risk management employment by the Group of former qualifications: systems and received reports from a employees of the external auditors and number of departments, and, where the policy on non-audit services provided expertise and resources: appropriate, presentations from senior by the external auditors.
The policy also effectiveness: and management, on the major risks faced by sets out the criteria to be followed when the Group and the procedures established considering whether external auditors independence.
to identify, assess, manage, monitor and should be engaged to undertake nonThe findings and conclusions of the report on these risks.
The Committee audit services with the aim of safeguarding survey were then reviewed by the reviewed and approved the statements on the external auditors objectivity and Committee.
The Committee confirms internal controls on page 55. independence.
The external auditors are that it is satisfied with the performance excluded from performing any day-toof the external auditors during the year, day accountancy work for the Group.
External auditors and with the policies and procedures In accordance with the policy, during The Committee has responsibility for in place to maintain their objectivity the year the Committee considered overseeing the relationship with the and independence.
The Committee and approved any non-audit work to external auditors and during 2013 recommended that Deloitte be rebe undertaken by the external auditors it approved the external auditors appointed at the forthcoming Annual involving fees in excess of 25,000. engagement letter, audit fee and audit General Meeting and the Board accepted Where no committee meeting was and client services plan including the and endorsed this recommendation.
scheduled within an appropriate time planned levels of materiality.
The external The Committee also carefully considered frame, approval was sought from the auditors regularly attended Committee whether a formal tender process is Committee Chairman and subsequently meetings in 2013 and met at least once required in respect of the external auditor.
ratified at the next meeting.
All non-audit with the Committee without executive The Committee noted the ongoing services provided by the external auditors management.
The Chairman of the proposals, both within the UK and are reported to the Committee at its next Committee also met privately with the within the EU, for regulatory reform in scheduled meeting.
Letters of representation respect of the provision of audit services.
were reviewed during the year, prior to Deloitte has been the external auditor of Furthermore, the Committee considered signature by executive management.
the Group for more than 20 years and a the new perspective in respect of the audit tender in respect of the external audit has which would follow with the introduction During the year, the Committee received not been sought since William Hill was of Deloittes new audit partner.
Given the regular reports from the external auditors listed on the London Stock Exchange in foregoing and in view of the changes including a formal written report dealing 2002.
There are no contractual obligations within William Hills business over the last with the audit objectives: the auditors restricting the Groups choice of external few years, the Committee concluded that qualifications, expertise and resources: auditors.
During the year, an external audit now would not be the right time to seek a effectiveness of the audit process: effectiveness review was commissioned tender in respect of the external auditor.
procedures and policies for maintaining by the Committee Chairman, which The Committee will keep the matter under independence: and compliance with the involved issuing a survey to senior close review, particularly once there is ethical standards issued by the Auditing managers within the Group who have clarity and certainty on the implementation Practices Board.
The external auditors regular contact with Deloitte.
management letter was reviewed, as was managements response to issues raised.
Internal Audit During the year the Committee approved The Committee monitors the ethical the annual audit plan and internal audit guidance regarding rotation of audit methodology for the Internal Audit partners.
The current audit partner, Rob department and it monitored progress Matthews, was appointed in 2009 hence against the plan.
Audit reports were his five year term will expire in 2014, in circulated to the Committee members accordance with the latest guidance.
after each audit and the Committee Following a series of interviews with the monitored progress against actions Committee Chairman and the Group identified in those reports and the external Finance Director a new audit partner, Paul auditors management letter.
Franek, was agreed by the Committee.
A comprehensive handover process has commenced to ensure there is a smooth transition.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RepORT Of THe AUDIT AND RISk MANAgeMeNT COMMITTee The Internal Audit department acts The key areas identified by management Other activities under agreed terms of reference and the and or reviewed by Deloitte included: During the year other significant Committee has established a number reviewing the accounting treatment activities addressed by the Committee of procedures to monitor and review the and disclosures associated with the were as follows: Internal Audit departments effectiveness acquisitions of the Australian businesses using guidance from a self-assessment PCI DSS Compliance i. e. during 2013.
This included assessing questionnaire prepared by Internal Audit, standards for handling customer their valuation and useful life of feedback from senior management and a cardholder information in respect intangible assets: review of the Institute of Internal Auditors of credit or debit cards Standards for the Professional Practice reviewing the accounting treatment Group Cashflow Management of Internal Auditing.
During the year the and disclosures associated with the Committee also assessed the resources acquisition of Playtechs 29% share in Group Management Accounting the department has to complete its remit the William Hill Online business: US Financial Controls and it reviewed the effectiveness of the the carrying value of goodwill and Internal Audit Department.
The Internal UK Gambling Act Compliance intangibles across the Group.
Audit department has unrestricted access The Group regularly conducts reviews Retail Security to all Group documentation, premises, as to whether the carrying value functions and employees as required Retail Gaming of goodwill and intangibles should to enable it to perform its functions.
be impaired: Self Service Betting Terminals The appointment and removal of the Director of Audit and Risk and Head of revenue recognition treatment and Brand and Marketing Strategy Group Audit is the responsibility of the the valuation of ante post open bets.
The Director of Audit and These are reviewed routinely: Risk and Head of Group Audit have direct Project Delivery assumptions used in respect of the access to the Board and Committee liability regarding the defined benefit Online Risk and Fraud Chairmen and are accountable to the pension scheme: Committee.
During the year the Director International Markets Customers of Audit and Risk and Head of Group reviewing the treatment in respect of the Live Casino Audit continued to meet regularly with pre-exceptional tax charge and also the the Committee Chairman without tax on exceptional items for the year.
Business Information Systems BIS executive management.
These are reviewed routinely: Supplier Management Disclosure of Significant Issues the effectiveness of key controls within Software Licensing Considered by the Committee the business.
Trading Systems and Data Feeds An important part of the Committees Further details in respect of accounting responsibilities is to review key issues in Technology Strategy treatments and assumptions are provided respect of the annual financial statement.
as appropriate in the Notes of the financial Mobile Strategy and Delivery The Committee pays particular attention statements.
The Committee considered to the matters which it considers may BIS Security Incident Management managements treatment of each of the affect the integrity of the Groups financial key areas and other related issues and statement.
This process is primarily BIS Security Testing also considered Deloittes review of such focussed on the key issues identified and Remediation matters.
Following this, the Committee by management for consideration and User Access Account Management was satisfied that the judgements made by discussing with the external auditor by management were reasonable and that their plan in respect of the audit of the Tel Aviv Marketing Systems appropriate disclosures had been included annual financial statements.
Towards the and Architecture in the accounts.
The Committee also end of 2013 the Committee reviewed a US Mobile Blocking noted that Deloitte were prepared to issue comprehensive plan prepared by Deloitte, an audit opinion, which appears on pages which explained the: US BIS Security 81 to 84 of this Annual Report, in respect scope and approach of the Review of legislative and governance of the financial statements.
audit, including consideration of changes in narrative reporting for materiality thresholds: listed companies key areas of change in the focus of the Regular updates are provided to audit: and the Committee on developments in financial reporting and risk areas of significant audit risk which management and related legal and would be reviewed in particular.
David Lowden Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee
