William Hill PLC 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT A breakdown of the elements included in the remuneration scenario charts is shown in the table below Fixed 000 Annual Bonus 000 PSP 000 Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed Target Maximum Target Maximum CEO 650.0 30.4 162.5 842.9 585.0 1,137.5 325.0 1,300.0 Group Financial Director 380.0 14.9 76.0 470.9 266.0 570.0 166.3 665.0 Executive directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that the period In the event of a directors departure, The contracts of the executive directors do any outstanding share awards will be not provide for any enhanced payments of notice for executive directors will not exceed twelve months and, accordingly, treated in accordance with the relevant in the event of a change of control of the plan rules.
The default treatment under Company or for liquidated damages.
the employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on twelve months the Performance Share Plan PSP and Copies of the executive directors service notice by either party.
Executive Bonus Matching Scheme contract are available for inspection at the EBMS is that any outstanding awards In the event of a directors departure, Companys registered office: Greenside will lapse on cessation of employment.
the Companys policy on termination House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, payments is as follows: However, in certain prescribed good London, N22 7TP.
leaver circumstances such as death, The Company may pay base salary, injury, disability and in any other Remuneration policy across employer pension contributions and circumstances at the discretion of the the Group the cost of benefits or if the Company Committee, unvested EBMS shares so decides an amount equal to 10% of The remuneration policy for the executive will normally fully vest on leaving and base salary at the termination date in directors and senior management is will be released to the participant within lieu of notice either as a lump sum or in designed with regard to the policy for one month after the end of the retention monthly instalments.
employees across the Company as a period.
The Committee is kept updated The Company will seek to ensure that and at the discretion of the Committee, through the year on general employment the leaving executive director may no more is paid than is warranted in conditions, basic salary increase each individual case and will seek to receive the deferred shares prior to the budgets, the level of bonus pools and end of the retention period.
apply the principles of mitigation to payouts, and participation in share plans.
any proposed payment, where it is Under the 2014 PSP, an individual The Committee is therefore aware of appropriate to do so.
Under the current who leaves by reason of death, how total remuneration at the executive executive directors contracts, monthly injury, disability, ill-health, statutory director level compares to the total payments are reduced in lieu of notice redundancy, agreed retirement, sale of remuneration of the general population by 80% of one-twelfth of the base the employing company or business of employees.
Common approaches to annual salary or fee that the executive out of the Group and in any other remuneration policy which apply across director is entitled to receive from any circumstances at the discretion of the Company include: alternative employment or consultancy the Committee will normally receive a arrangement, during the period a consistent approach to pay for pro-rated proportion of outstanding compensation is paid.
Under new performance is applied throughout the PSP awards which can be exercised contracts, 100% of one-twelfth of all Company, with annual bonus schemes up to six months or such longer earnings may be recovered.
being offered to all employees: period as the Committee permits and up to 12 months in the case of death There is no entitlement to cash bonus offering pension, medical and life paid or associated deferred shares after the performance period ends assurance benefits for all employees: and subject to performance over that following notice of termination by ensuring that salary increases for either the employee or Company on period.
Exceptionally, the Committee each category of employee are may decide to release the PSP shares, cessation of employment, and bad considered taking into account the leavers will not receive any bonus following cessation of employment overall rate of increase across the subject to the Committees assessment in such circumstances.
However, Company, as well as Company and where the individual is considered a of performance, to be exercised in the individual performance: six months after the leaving date or good leaver in the event of death or termination of employment by reason such longer period as the Committee encouraging broad-based share permits and up to 12 months in the of ill health, disability, injury, statutory ownership through the use of redundancy, agreed retirement, sale of case of death and in exceptional all-employee share plans.
circumstances the Committee may employing company or business out of the Group or at the discretion of the decide to allow a greater number of shares to vest than if the level of vesting Committee, the Companys normal policy is that a performance-related was calculated on a pro-rata basis.
The provisions governing the vesting of bonus will be paid at the normal time and this will be time pro-rated based PSP awards under the previous PSP are broadly similar and these awards will on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual was employed.
If at vest on the terms set out in that plan.
the time the individual is under notice or has left employment, all of the bonus will be payable in cash.
