William Hill PLC 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 members of the senior management The Chairman is responsible for taking the The review concluded that good progress team draw on the collective experience lead on issues of director development had been made in many areas and of the Board, including its Nonand encouraging all Board members some additional recommendations were executive Directors: to engage in Board and Committee made for consideration by the Board.
meetings by drawing on their skills, In particular: the Board systematically visits the experience and knowledge.
In particular, Groups business locations both to the review highlighted the importance of in 2013 the Chairman led a process review its operations and to meet with ensuring an effective governance and whereby many of the Non-executive local management.
transition process for Chief Executive Directors deepened their knowledge succession planning.
This included Conflicts of interest of the business through a series of ensuring an effective overall Board individual site visits across the business.
In accordance with the Companies composition in light of the appointment Act 2006, the Companys Articles of The visits included Gibraltar, Australia, of a successor to the Chief Executive.
the US and Manilla and incorporated Association include provisions reflecting A good deal of good work had been recommended practice concerning meetings with local management and done on Chief Executive succession: employees and inspections of operations.
The Board has in place procedures for directors to Observations following site visits are each year the Board holds a meeting shared with the rest of the Board.
report any potential or actual conflicts devoted specifically to strategy.
to the other members of the Board for The strategy meeting in 2013 reflected For newly-appointed directors, we have their authorisation where appropriate.
the recommendations in the previous an induction programme covering a range In deciding whether to authorise a years Board evaluation and represented of general, industry, and Group specific conflict or potential conflict of interest further ongoing improvement in information and this is supplemented only non-interested directors i. e. those preparation, analysis, input and by an ongoing series of meetings with who have no interest in the matter under overall engagement.
There were clear external advisers and employees.
consideration will be able to take the outcomes and the Board had a good Induction programmes are also in place for relevant decision: in taking the decision the sense of strategic direction and intent: appointment to the Board Committees.
directors must act in a way they consider, there had been ongoing improvement in in good faith, will be most likely to promote Each director has access to all required the performance measures considered the Companys success.
In addition, information relating to the Group and to by the Board.
There had also been a the directors may impose conditions or the advice and services of the Company wider consideration of issues such as limitations when giving authorisation if they Secretary.
The Board also obtains advice the competitive landscape and of the think this is appropriate.
from professional advisers as and when risks to the business: required and directors may, as required, Board Committees obtain external advice at the expense of the Non-executive Directors had The Remuneration Committee, the the Group.
become more familiar with the Nomination Committee, the Audit and pipeline of talent in the business.
Risk Management Committee and the Board performance evaluation Further time was recommended, Corporate Responsibility Committee are As reported in the 2012 Annual Report, however, for the Board to have a wider standing committees of the Board.
a review of the effectiveness of the Board discussion of talent, succession and was undertaken by SCT Consultants.
The terms of reference of the development plans: The Board agreed to build on the work Committees are available upon request and the output of the 2012 performance there has been a streamlining of the or via the Groups corporate website review and once again requested SCT membership of committees which www.
com and are regularly Consultants to perform a review as had enabled some improvement in reviewed by the relevant committee and this would provide a good indication sequencing of committees and Board the Board.
All committees have access to of progress.
SCT Consultants have no meetings.
The appointment of a independent expert advice as necessary.
other connection with the Company.
dedicated Company Secretary will allow Appointments to Board committees are This work was led by Margaret Exley more time for ongoing improvements for three-year terms extendable by no who had conducted the previous in Board processes.
The remit and more than two additional three-year terms.
Board evaluation in 2012, which helped objectives of committees had been to provide a consistent assessment.
clarified where necessary and will be Board performance The review was conducted by a series formally reflected in amended terms of interviews with all Board members of reference: Information and professional and the former and current Company development the Chairman and Chief Executive Secretary.
Margaret Exley also reviewed The Chairman, supported by the should continue to develop a climate supporting documents, such as Board Company Secretary, takes responsibility where challenge is welcomed and and Committee minutes and supporting for ensuring that the directors receive differences respected.
Further discussions were then accurate, timely and clear information.
held between Margaret Exley and the Ongoing actions arising from the The Board receives reports from Chairman to review the output of the performance review will be discussed by management on the performance of work.
Margaret Exley then presented and the Board regularly in 2014. the Group at Board meetings and other discussed the findings with the Board.
Regular updates are provided on relevant legal, corporate governance and financial reporting developments and directors are encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
