William Hill PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS RepORT The directors present their Annual Report Strategic Report Share Capital on the affairs of the Group, together with The Board has prepared a Strategic As at 28 February 2014, the Company the financial statements and auditors Report which provides an overview had an allotted and fully paid up share report, for the period ended 31 December of the development and performance capital of 867,315,849 ordinary shares of 2013.
The following also form part of of the Groups business for the period 10 pence each with an aggregate nominal this report: ended 31 December 2013 and which value of 86,731,585. pages 50 to 51, which show the names covers likely future developments in the The Company is not aware of any of all persons who were directors of the Group.
The Chairmans overview, the agreements between shareholders that Company during the year: Chief Executives Statement, the strategic may result in restrictions on the transfer review, key performance indicators, the reports on corporate governance of securities and voting rights.
There are marketplace report, divisional overview, set out on pages 48 to 60: no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary corporate responsibility report, financial shares in the Company other than Information relating to financial review and managing our risks sections certain restrictions imposed by laws and together provide information which the instruments, as provided in the Notes regulations.
This will include insider trading tothe financial statement: directors consider to be of strategic laws and market requirements relating to importance to the Group.
related party transactions as set out close periods.
Also included will be the requirements of the Listing Rules whereby inNote 33 to the financial statement: Results and dividends directors and certain employees of the Greenhouse gas emissions, set out Company require the necessary approval The Groups profit on ordinary activities onpage 47. to deal in the Companys securities.
after taxation and exceptional items for Details of committee memberships for the period was 226.5m 53 weeks Each ordinary share of the Company each director are set out on pages 50 to ended 1 January 2013 231.0m.
Details of the directors interests are The directors recommend a final dividend the rights and obligations attaching to the set out in Note 1 to the Parent Company of 7.9p per share to be paid on 6 June Companys ordinary shares, in addition financial statements.
2014 to ordinary shareholders on the to those conferred on their holders by Register of Members on 2 May 2014 law, are set out in the Companys Articles which, if approved, together with the Management report of Association, a copy of which can be interim dividend of 3.7p per share paid on obtained from the Company Secretary.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 6 December 2013, makes a total of 11.6p Changes to the Articles of Association 4.1.
8R, the required per share for the year.
must be approved by special resolution content of the Management Report can ofthe Company.
be found in the Strategic report and this Directors and Officers liability Directors Report, including the sections The holders of ordinary shares are insurance of the Annual Report and Accounts entitled to receive the Companys report incorporated by reference.
Pursuant to Article 155 of the Articles of and accounts, to attend and speak at Association and subject to the provisions general meetings of the Company, to Annual Report and Accounts of the Companies Act, the directors appoint proxies and to exercise voting and officers of the Company shall be rights, and to receive a dividend, as and The directors are aware of the indemnified out of the assets of the when declared.
responsibilities in respect of the Annual Company, against liability in defending Reports and Accounts.
The directors proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in Substantial shareholdings consider that the Annual Report and which judgement is given in their favour Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, As at 31 December 2013, the Company or in which they are acquitted or in balanced and understandable and had been notified, in accordance with connection with any application in which provides the information necessary for the Disclosure and Transparency Rules relief is granted to them by the court from shareholders to assess the Companys of the Financial Conduct Authority, of the liability for negligence, default, breach of and the Groups performance, business notifiable interests in the ordinary share duty or breach of trust in relation to the model and strategy.
capital of the Company set out in the affairs of the Company.
In addition the table below.
Group has purchased and maintains The Statement of Directors Directors and Officers insurance cover Responsibilities appears on page 80.
Percentage Name of holder shareholding against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims incurred in respect of any act or The Capital Group omission in the execution of their duties.
Companies, Inc. 13.40% BlackRock, Inc. 5.86% Schroders plc 4.98% William Hill PLC 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In the period 31 December 2013 to William Hill is committed to equal Issue of new ordinary shares 28 February 2014, the following changes opportunities in the workplace.
During the financial period ended were disclosed in accordance with the In all aspects of employment including 31 December 2013, 161,380,787 new Disclosure and Transparency Rules: recruitment, promotion, training and ordinary shares of the Company were development and terms and conditions Percentage issued.
This included 156,872,327 shares Name of holder shareholding of employment, all employees and taken up under the Rights Issue at a price applicants for employment are given equal The Capital Group of 245p per share and 1,102,475 under opportunities regardless of gender, marital Companies, Inc. 9.90% the employee Sharesave Scheme at or family status, race, nationality, ethnic Artemis Investment prices between 139p and 348p per share.
origin, religion, age, disability and sexual Management LLP 5.06% In addition, 955,683 new ordinary shares orientation.
William Hill endeavours to were issued under the Employee Bonus ensure that all employees are made aware Matching Scheme and 2,450,302 shares Significant agreements of the provisions of the policy and of their issued under the William Hill Online Long change of control responsibility to uphold and promote it.
William Hill will not tolerate harassment, There are no significant agreements to discrimination or victimisation in the which the Company is party which take Annual General Meeting workplace in any form.
effect, alter or terminate in the event of The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 8 May a change of control in the Company Applications for employment by disabled 2014 at Cavendish Conference Centre, following a takeover bid.
persons are always fully and fairly 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT.
considered, bearing in mind the aptitude The notice of the AGM and an explanation Nevada Regulation and ability of the applicant concerned.
of the items of non routine business are In the event of employees becoming Shareholders of William Hill are subject to set out in the explanatory circular that disabled every effort is made to ensure regulation by the Nevada State Gaming accompanies this Annual Report.
that their employment within the Group Control Board and the Nevada Gaming continues and that appropriate training Commission as a result of the Companys Auditor and disclosure of information is arranged.
It continues to be the policy ownership of licensed subsidiaries in to auditor of the Group that the training, career Nevada and the Companys registration development and promotion of disabled Each of the directors in office at the as a publicly traded company operating persons should as far as is feasible be date when this report was approved in Nevada.
Information regarding identical to that of other employees.
confirms that: Nevada gaming regulatory requirements can be assessed by shareholders at so far as the director is aware, there is Political donations www.
no relevant audit information of which There were no political donations made the Companys auditor is unaware: and Employee policies during the period 2012: nil.
the director has taken all the steps that The Group places considerable value he ought to have taken as a director Authority to purchase own shares on the involvement of its employees and in order to make himself aware of has continued to keep them informed An authority for the Company to purchase any relevant audit information and to on matters affecting them as employees its own shares remains valid until the establish that the Companys auditor is and on the various factors affecting forthcoming Annual General Meeting, aware of that information.
the performance of the Group.
This is when it is intended that a resolution will Deloitte LLP have expressed their achieved through formal and informal be put forward to shareholders to renew willingness to be re-appointed as auditors meetings and the Group magazine such authority.
An employee engagement Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will survey is also conducted annually, the be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
results of which are communicated to employees for review and to managers By Order of the Board for action.
Employee representatives are Luke Thomas consulted regularly through colleague Company Secretary forums on a wide range of matters 28 February 2014 affecting their current and future interests.
Registered Office: Greenside House, 50 Station Road, The Company operates a SAYE Share Wood Green, London N22 7TP Option Scheme which is open to all eligibleemployees.
Options under the scheme are granted with an exercise priceup to 20% below the prevailing shareprice.
The maximum permissible monthly savings under the scheme is currently 250.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
