William Hill PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STATeMeNT ON CORpORATe gOveRNANCe Board meetings during 2013 Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings Details of Board and Committee attendance during 2013 are set out in the table below.
All directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings.
Board Audit & Risk Corporate Managment Responsibility Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad Hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 11 1 6 5 6 7 Meetings attended Gareth Davis 11 1 N A 5 6 7 David Edmonds 10 1 5 4 6 7 Imelda Walsh 11 1 6 5 6 7 1 David Lowden 11 1 6 1 6 7 1 Georgina Harvey 11 1 1 5 6 7 1 Ashley Highfield 10 1 6 5 6 1 Ralph Topping 9 1 N A 1 N A N A Neil Cooper 10 1 N A N A N A N A Where a director was not in attendance, this was due to other unavoidable commitments.
For example, both Ralph Topping and Neil Cooper missed a meeting due to their attendance at discussions with shareholders in respect of the launch of the 373m rights issue.
Ralph Topping also had international commitments on Company business.
Directors who were unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting receive the relevant papers and can provide their comments to the Chairman of the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any director who misses a meeting will receive the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
1 Membership of the Audit & Risk Management, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Committees were reviewed in early 2013 and as a result of the review it was agreed that some directors would no longer serve on certain committees.
Where this is the case, the director concerned attended each meeting of the respective committee during 2013 prior to no longer serving on that committee.
Summary of Board activity Presentations made to the Board included: Meetings between the Chairman, Chief during 2013 Executive and or the Group Finance business systems Each scheduled Board meeting reviews Director and shareholders can be held individual reports received from the Chief on request to discuss governance future trends Executive, the Group Finance Director, and corporate responsibility issues risk management the General Counsel and the Company generally.
As noted in the Remuneration Secretary, as well as reviewing progress Report, during 2013 we engaged corporate development against previously agreed actions and extensively with our largest shareholders developments in William Hill Online progress against the outcomes of the on proposals to change some of our annual Board strategy meeting.
marketing Other topics and discussions in Board Summary of meetings with investor relations meetings held in 2013 included: shareholders during the year business developments The Group obtains feedback from its the acquisition of Sportingbets brokers, Citigroup and Investec, on Australian business and the acquisition Engagement with shareholders the views of institutional investors on of online sports betting business a non attributable basis and the Chief Relations with shareholders tomwaterhouse.
com: Executive and or Group Finance Director The Board remains committed to gaining full control of our communicate the issues and concerns maintaining good relationships with both of major shareholders to the Board.
Online business: institutional and private shareholders.
As a matter of routine, the Board receives There is a regular dialogue with institutional approval of a 373m rights issue and a regular reports from its advisers on issues shareholders, although care is exercised 375m corporate bond: relating to recent share price performance, to ensure that any price sensitive trading activity and institutional investor consideration of the implication information is released at the same time sentiment.
The Board also receives copies of the proposed introduction of a to all shareholders, in accordance with the of relevant analysts reports on an ad hoc Point of Consumption tax on UK requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
basis and has the support of an in-house online revenues: Presentations provided to institutional Investor Relations team.
This team was Board evaluation and governance: shareholders and analysts following proud to receive the Best IR Travel and the publication of the Groups quarterly Hotels award in the Institutional Investor approval of the annual operating plan financial results are made available magazine 2013 European Survey and the for 2014: on the Groups corporate website, Best Company IR Travel & Leisure in the www.
com, and a recording IR Magazine European Awards 2013. of the results presentations and trading AGM update can be accessed via telephone for The Board regards the AGM as an a period following the meeting.
important opportunity to communicate The Chairman is available to discuss directly with all shareholders.
At the strategy and governance issues with AGM in 2013 we took the opportunity shareholders and David Edmonds, as to summarise our performance and the Senior Independent Non-executive achievements in the prior year and to Director, is available to shareholders if they provide a business update.
have concerns that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Chairman or Group Finance Director.
