William Hill PLC 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board members, including the chairmen Each year the Board assesses the The register records the key risks facing of the Remuneration, Nomination, Audit effectiveness of the Groups system the business, the assessment of the and Risk Management, and Corporate of internal controls including financial, likelihood of the risks crystallising and Responsibility Committees, attended the operational and compliance controls and their potential materiality, and the Groups 2013 meeting and intend to attend the risk management systems on the basis of: response to each risk.
Responsibility for 2014 meeting to be available to answer management of the risks is attributed to established procedures, including those questions.
At the conclusion of the senior management.
already described, which are in place to formal AGM, shareholders are provided manage perceived risks: The Board uses the control and risk with an opportunity to discuss business management processes to identify and matters informally with the directors and regular reports to the Audit and Risk manage any significant risks arising from this provides the directors with a further Management Committee which inform social, environmental and ethical issues.
opportunity to understand and respond to the Committee on the adequacy and Further details of the Groups corporate the views of its shareholders.
effectiveness of internal control systems responsibility practices are described and significant control issues: In order that shareholders are aware of on page 40 to 47 and in the separate the other shareholders voting intentions, the continuous Group-wide process Corporate Responsibility Report.
the details of proxy votes for the AGM held for formally identifying, evaluating and Internal Audit in 2013 are announced at the relevant managing the significant risks to the The Internal Audit department reviews the general meeting and are made available achievement of the Groups objectives: extent to which systems of internal control on the Groups website following the are effective: are adequate to manage the reports to the Audit and Risk meeting.
The website also contains copies Management Committee on the results Groups significant risks: safeguard the of the Notice of Meeting and explanatory Groups assets: and, in conjunction with of internal audit reviews and work notes.
A separate resolution is proposed undertaken by other departments: and the Company Secretary, aim to ensure on each substantially separate issue.
It is compliance with legal and regulatory intended to continue with these practices managements controls selfrequirements.
It provides independent and for 2014 and future shareholder meetings.
objective assurance on risks and controls It is planned to post the Notice of the 2014 to the Board and senior management.
The Groups internal control systems AGM to shareholders with the 2013 Annual are designed to manage, rather than Report and Accounts at least 20 working Internal Audits work is focused on areas of eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the days prior to the date of the meeting.
greatest risk to the Group, as determined Groups objectives, and can only provide by a structured risk assessment process The Articles of Association of the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance involving executive directors and senior Company require that any newly against material misstatement or loss.
The output from this appointed directors will be subject to In assessing what constitutes reasonable process is summarised in an annual audit election at the following AGM and also assurance, the Board considers the plan, which is reviewed and approved that directors will submit themselves materiality of financial and non-financial by the Audit and Risk Management for re-election at least once every three risks and the relationship between Committee.
The Group Director of Risk years.
However, in accordance with the the cost of, and benefit from, internal and Audit and the Head of Group Audit provisions of the Code, the Board has control systems.
reports regularly to the Audit and Risk agreed that all directors should be subject Management Committee on its work The Board regularly reviews the actual to annual re-election by shareholders.
undertaken, the results of audit reviews, and forecast performance of the business the adequacy of the Internal Audit compared with the annual plan, as well Internal control functions resources and on progress as other key performance indicators both against the annual audit plan.
The Board has overall responsibility for financial and non-financial.
the Groups internal control systems The role of the Internal Audit department Lines of responsibility and delegated and for monitoring their effectiveness.
and the scope of its work continue to authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups Executive directors and senior evolve to take account of changes within policies and procedures are regularly management are responsible for the the business and emerging best practice.
updated and distributed throughout the implementation and maintenance of the Group.
The Audit and Risk Management Going concern internal control systems, which are subject Committee receives reports on a regular The Directors have prepared the financial to a yearly review that is documented.
basis on compliance with the Groups statements on a going concern basis The Internal Audit department maintains policies and procedures.
consistent with their view, formed after an assurance framework recording the making appropriate enquiries, that the key internal controls in every division and No significant failings or weaknesses were Group is operationally and financially department throughout the Group.
identified as a result of the review of the robust.
More details of the Groups going effectiveness of the Groups system of The Board monitors the ongoing process concern assumption can be found in internal control.
by which critical risks to the business the Accounts section of this report on are identified, evaluated and managed.
This process is consistent with both the A corporate risk register is maintained Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, and is regularly updated following detailed Remuneration and the revised guidance issued by the review by Internal Audit and senior Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, management during the year.
The register The Directors Remuneration Report is set and has been in place for the year under out on pages 61 to 77. is approved annually by the Audit and Risk review and up to the date of approval of Management Committee and the Board.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
