William Hill PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 scope to reward for exceptional effort This Directors Remuneration Report How the Remuneration covers the remuneration of the executive Committeeoperates to set and achievement that delivers value both for the Company and the shareholders.
and Non-executive Directors of William Hill theremuneration policy PLC.
In line with new regulations governing The Companys Remuneration Committee Likewise, failure to achieve individually or at Corporate level will not be rewarded.
the disclosure and approval of directors the Committee is constituted in remuneration, the report is split into three accordance with the recommendations The Committee is also mindful of sections: an annual statement from the of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
ensuring that there is an appropriate Chair of the Committee, a Remuneration The Committee is a committee of the balance between the level of risk and Policy Report and an Annual Report Board which determines the Groups reward for the individual, the Company on Remuneration.
policy on the remuneration of the executive and for our shareholders.
When setting directors, Chairman and other relevant This part of the Directors Remuneration the levels of short-term and long-term senior management.
It works within variable remuneration, the degree of Report, the Remuneration Policy Report, defined terms of reference which are sets out the remuneration policy for stretch in performance conditions and available on the Companys corporate the split between equity and cash within the Company and has been prepared website: www.
com in accordance with Schedule 8 to the the package, consideration is given to obtaining the appropriate proportion of Large and Medium-sized Companies The Committees key objectives are to: and Groups Accounts and Reports each so as not to encourage unnecessary set and agree with the Board risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, the Regulations 2008 as amended.
a competitive and transparent The policy has been developed taking into Committee also ensures that there is an remuneration framework which is appropriate focus on Environment, Safety account the principles of the UK Corporate aligned to the Group strategy and is in Governance Code 2012, the latest and Governance ESG issues.
the interests of both the Company and guidelines from the Association of British its shareholders: and The remuneration package is reviewed Insurers, National Association of Pension periodically taking into account all Funds and ISS RREV and the views of our determine the specific remuneration elements of remuneration, i. e. not looking major shareholders.
packages for each of the executive at any single element in isolation, to ensure directors and other senior The Policy Report will be put to a binding it remains competitive.
The Committee management, including basic salary, undertakes the determination of individual shareholder vote at the Annual General incentives, other benefits and any Meeting on 8 May 2014. remuneration packages for executive compensation payments.
directors and senior management Remuneration policy annually.
Whilst pay benchmarking Remuneration Policy report provides context for setting pay levels, The remuneration policy for executive This part of the Directors Remuneration directors and senior management is itisnot considered in isolation.
Report sets out the remuneration policy designed to support the business needs The total remuneration package is for the Company and, subject to approval, of the Group, to ensure it has the ability structured so that a significant proportion will take effect from 8 May 2014, the date to attract and retain senior leaders of is linked to performance conditions of the AGM.
a high calibre, and to align the longmeasured over both the short and longer term interests of executive directors term.
It is also the Companys policy and senior management with those of to ensure that a high proportion of the our shareholders.
potential remuneration package is paid in shares, which is designed to ensure The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to that executives have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through the be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business Companys share price performance.
environment and in remuneration The table below summarises each practice.
There must be transparency element of the remuneration policy for the and alignment to the delivery of strategic executive directors, explaining how each objectives at both a Group and an element operates and how each part links individual level.
There must also be to the corporate strategy.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT Element of remuneration package Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post holders experience, competency and performance within the Company.
Operation Paid monthly in cash via payroll.
Nor mally reviewed by the Committee annually and fixed for 12 months commencing 1 January.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: The commercial need to do so: Role, experience and performance: Average change in wider workforce pay: C ompany profitability and prevailing market conditions: and P eriodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies, such as the FTSE 70-130 used in 2013.
Opportunity The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels with annual increases typically in line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in the individuals responsibility, or where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role.
An above market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances to reflect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Base salary levels for 2014 are: Chief Executive 650,000 Group Finance Director 380,000 Performance metrics E xecutive directors participate in the Companys annual performance management process.
Individual and Company performance is taken into account when determining appropriate salary increases.
Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies, Element of remuneration package Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operate competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and retain executive directors and senior management.
As with employee benefits for the wider workforce, certain benefits e. g. private medical insurance are provided to minimise disruption e. g. from illness to the day-to-day operation of the business.
Operation Benefits include private medical insurance covering the executive, spouse and dependent children, a fully expensed car or car allowance, subsidised travel card, permanent health insurance and life assurance benefits.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
T he Group Finance Director participates in the Companys flexible benefits scheme.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a director is required to relocate.
The benefit must be taken up within 12 months of appointment unless exceptional circumstances prevail.
Opportunity The aim is to provide market competitive benefits and their value may vary from year to year depending on the cost to the Company from third party providers.
Performance metrics No performance metrics apply.
Recovery or withholding Relocation and related benefits may be subject to clawback either in full or part if an executive resigns within two years of joining.
Element of remuneration package Pension Purpose and link to strategy Market competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits are provided to act as a retention mechanism and to recognise long service.
Operation Company Pension Savings Plan a defined contribution plan or cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions once statutory limits Protection and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
Opportunity From April 2008, the Chief Executive has been drawing his pension and is therefore accruing no further pension benefits.
He is paid an annual cash supplement of 25% of salary in lieu of pension contributions.
The Group Finance Director receives a company contribution of 20% of salary paid into the Companys Pension Savings Plan.
Any amount above the Annual Allowance being 40,000 for the tax year 2014 15 is paid as a cash allowance.
A company contribution of 20% of salary will apply to new executive directors going forward, including a new Chief Executive.
Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies.
William Hill PLC 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Element of remuneration package Annual Performance Bonus cash & shares Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise executive directors and senior management to achieve specific, pre-determined goals during a one-year period.
Rewards financial and individual performance linked to the Companys strategy.
Deferred proportion of bonus, awarded in shares, provides a retention element and additional alignment of interest with shareholders.
Operation Bonus payment is determined by the Committee after the year end, based on performance against challenging targets set at the start of the year.
For the current Chief Executive, 30% of the bonus is payable in cash with the remaining 70% deferred into shares for three years under the Executive Bonus Matching Scheme EBMS.
For the Group Finance Director these proportions change to 50% cash, 50% deferred shares.
For new executive directors, including a new Chief Executive, at least 50% of bonus will be deferred.
The deferred element may be subject to forfeiture in the event of the executive directors departure prior to vesting.
Since the Performance Share Plan was introduced in 2010, no matching shares to deferred bonus, under EBMS, are offered to the Chief Executive of Group Finance Director.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested deferred bonus shares.
Opportunity The Maximum bonus for the Chief Executive is 175% of salary: Target bonus is 90% of salary: and Threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
For a new Chief Executive the Target bonus will be reduced to 85% of salary.
The Maximum bonus for the Group Finance Director is 150% of salary: Target bonus is 70% of salary: and Threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
Performance metrics The bonus policy is for at least 75% of the bonus to be based on an appropriate mix of financial metrics, such as Company or business unit profits, and no more than 25% on individual objectives.
The Committee is committed to ensuring that targets are demanding.
No bonus in respect of the individual objectives will be payable unless at least the threshold level of performance is achieved in respect of any profit-related metrics.
T he Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Recovery or withholding In line with current best practice, bonus may be clawed back if within three years there has been a material misstatement of results, a calculation error, misleading information or conduct justifying summary dismissal is discovered.
Element of remuneration package Long-term incentives: Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy To drive performance and retention and align interests of executives and shareholders through building a shareholding.
Incentivises participants to profitably grow the business and to achieve superior long-term shareholder returns in line with the Companys strategy.
Retains key executives over the performance period.
Operation Awards, normally in the form of nil-cost options, are granted annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions and the executive directors continued employment.
PSP awards have a four year performance and vesting period.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee on vested PSP award shares.
Opportunity The rules of the PSP state that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary.
This limit may be increased to 300% of base salary in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional.
Quantum is reviewed annually subject to the above limits taking into account overall remuneration, the performance of the Company and of the executive director being made the award.
The normal policy maximum is 200% of salary for the current Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the current Group Finance Director.
Performance metrics The appropriateness of the performance conditions and the targets to be set are reviewed annually.
At least 50% of the award will be based on relative TSR with the remainder on EPS growth targets and business performance measures.
Each performance condition is measured independently.
T he relative TSR performance condition measures the Companys TSR performance against a comparator group as constructed at the grant date and measured over the four-year performance period.
For a ranking below median, none of this element of the award will vest.
For a median ranking 25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above upper quartile.
The Committee has discretion regarding the treatment of delisted companies for the purposes of the TSR comparator group.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT Performance metrics The EPS range will be based on adjusted EPS over the four-year performance period.
25% of the continued award will vest for a threshold level of performance and 100% will vest at the maximum level, with straight line vesting in between.
For the business performance measures, a sliding scale of four-year targets will be set.
None of the awards relating to these measures will vest if performance is below threshold, 25% will vest at threshold with full vesting for maximum performance.
Maximum performance is set as significantly exceeding the Companys internal expectations.
The Committee has discretion to set different performance targets for future awards provided that the new targets are not materially less challenging, given the prevailing circumstances than those attached to previous awards.
The Committee also retains the flexibility to vary the mix of metrics for each years award in light of the business priorities at the time.
Nevertheless relative TSR will always apply to at least 50% of any award and business performance measures targets cannot exceed 25%.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the PSP vesting outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the PSP vesting outcome.
Recovery or withholding Clawback applies on the same basis as annual bonus.
Element of remuneration package All employee share schemes Purpose and link to strategy All employees including executive directors are encouraged to become shareholders through the operation of the HMRC approved SAYE plan and or such other HMRC approved all-employee share plans as the Company may adopt in the future.
Operation The SAYE has standard terms under which all UK employees including executive directors, with at least three months service, can participate Opportunity All eligible employees can save up to the HMRC limits applying over a three or five year savings period.
HMRC limits will apply to any other HMRC all-employee share plan.
Element of remuneration package Share ownership policy Purpose and link to strategy To align interests of management and shareholders and promote a long-term approach to performance and risk management.
Operation The current Chief Executive is expected to hold William Hill shares to the value of a minimum of 150% of salary, and the Group Finance Director a minimum of 100% of salary.
The policy for a new Chief Executive will be a minimum of 200% of salary.
Only shares owned outright by the executive director are included in the guideline, which is expected to be achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually with an expectation that executive directors will make progress towards the achievement of the shareholding policy guideline each year.
Half of vested PSP awards after sale of shares to cover associated personal tax liabilities must be retained until the guideline is met.
Opportunity n a Performance metrics n a Recovery or withholding n a Notes to the Policy Table Choice of performance measures: The performance measures that are used for annual bonus and PSP are a subset of the Companys key performance indicators.
Annual bonus The main emphasis is on financial metrics, for example Company profit on ordinary activities before exceptional items, interest and tax PBIT.
PBIT measures the underlying profits generated by the business and whether management is converting growth into profits effectively.
Individual objectives measure whether management is delivering against stated key business and personal targets which are linked to the corporate strategy.
PSP Relative TSR provides a measure of the long-term success of the Company relative to appropriate peer comparators.
EPS growth is a measure of the overall profitability of the business for investors over the long-term and therefore helps align the interests of management with shareholders.
Business performance measures provide a more rounded assessment of long-term performance and focus executive reward more directly on some of the key drivers of future business growth.
The TSR comparator group and the EPS targets will be disclosed for each award in the policy for the current year in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Business performance measures, where used, are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advance for commercial reasons.
The Company will, however, fully disclose the original targets and the extent to which they have been achieved on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
The Annual Report onRemuneration will also provide a broad update on progress after each year of the performance period.
