William Hill PLC 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Long-term incentives growth or better.
Vesting is on a straightRemuneration in 2013 line basis for performance in between The maximum normal annual award limit these points.
The Committee believes Membership of the Remuneration under the new PSP is 225% of salary and, the above range is very challenging in Committee subject to its approval at the 2014 AGM, it light of internal and external forecasts is intended that awards with a face value of The members of the Committee during and the expected introduction of a 200% and 175% of salary will be granted 2013 are listed in the table below.
Point of Consumption Tax POCT to the Chief Executive and Group Finance All members of the Committee are by HM Government in December Director respectively in 2014.
To illustrate the degree of No director plays a part in any discussion The proposed increases in 2014 PSP stretch required, if the impact of POCT directly relating to their own remuneration.
assuming for this purpose only that award levels from the previous normal award level of 150% of salary which there is no mitigation was applied to the Year of Name appointment 2013 EPS of 28.8p, the 4% to 8% p. a. applied before the Chief Executive was Imelda Walsh chair 2011 granted his retention award brings growth range would be equivalent to around 10.5% to 15% p. a. Gareth Davis 2010 quantum towards mid-market levels against companies of a broadly similar David Edmonds 2005 The business performance measures size but still remains below the opportunity David Lowden 2011 will apply for 25% of the award.
provided by some of the Companys key Georgina Harvey 2011 Three measures have been chosen competitors.
It should also be noted that, 1 Ashley Highfield 2008 Mobile Sportsbook net revenue in light of the Chief Executives intention growth, Mobile Gaming net revenue 1 to retire, his award will be time pro-rated Ashley Highfield resigned from the Committee in growth and Australia digital net revenue January 2013 but has been involved with remuneration for the period in service and performance growth and each will have an equal matters considered by the Committee throughout 2013. will be measured at the end of the fourweighting.
These measures reflect the year performance period.
In addition the The Head of Reward & Engagement, Companys focus on capitalising on the John Machin acts as Secretary to Group Finance Directors award takes structural shift to mobile gaming and into account the move to a four-year the Committee.
on international expansion by exploiting performance period.
its core capabilities in a second growth territory.
The Committee also reviewed the measures determining long-term For each measure, a sliding scale of performance in light of the Companys four-year growth targets will be set using strategic outlook.
TSR and EPS continue the 2013 actual result as the base figure.
to be relevant arbiters of performance, but the Committee felt that, in light of Net Mobile Mobile Australia the additional commercial challenges, it Revenues Sportsbook Gaming Digital was now appropriate to introduce some 2013 95.9m 40.0m $156.1m additional revenue-related business performance measures which will annualised to reflect William Hills part-ownership of Sportingbet and tomwaterhouse.
focus executives on the key drivers of future growth, and to further re-enforce None of the award relating to each alignment to shareholder interests.
measure will vest if performance is The Committee also decided to increase below threshold, 25% will vest at the performance and vesting period threshold with full vesting for maximum to four years to further encourage performance or better.
Awards shall vest performance over a longer-term horizon.
on a straight line basis for performance This change will also provide a fairer between threshold and maximum.
measure of performance as the major Maximum performance will be set so as international football tournaments also to significantly exceed the Companys operate on a four-year cycle.
performance period will apply to each The Committee considers that the performance measure.
targets applying to each business TSR will apply for 50% of the award.
performance measure are demanding The TSR comparator group will but too sensitive to disclose in advance comprise 888, Betfair, Betsson, Bwin, for commercial reasons.
However, Enterprise Inns, Greene King, JD there will be full disclosure of the original Wetherspoon, Ladbrokes, Lottomattica, targets set and the extent to which they Marstons, Mitchells & Butlers, OPAP, have been achieved on a retrospective Paddy Power, Playtech, Rank, The basis at the end of the performance Restaurant Group and Unibet.
The Committee will also provide a broad update on progress in these EPS will apply for 25% of the award.
areas after each year of the four-year Vesting will be based on achievement of performance period.
a four-year growth target by comparing the EPS outturn in 2017 with 2013.
None of this part of the award will vest if compound annual growth in EPS is less than 4% p. a.
25% will vest for 4% growth and 100% will vest for 8% p. a.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
