William Hill PLC 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, EBMS and PSP existing and 2014 plans according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
Copies of the PSP and EBMS rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: Who participates in the plans: The timing of grant of award and or payment: The size of an award and or a payment: The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan including the treatment of delisted companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group : Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special dividends.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed previously to shareholders, including awards made under the Executive Bonus Matching Scheme and Performance Share Plan.
Remuneration scenarios for executive directors The Companys remuneration policy results in a significant proportion of the remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on Company performance.
The chart below shows how total pay for the executive directors varies under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum: Minimum Comprises of the fixed elements of pay being base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary and pension is effective as at 1 January 2014 and the benefits value is the actual value for 2013.
Target Comprises of fixed pay and the target value of bonus Chief Executive 90% of salary, Group Finance Director 70% of salary and normal 1 policy PSP awards Chief Executive 50% of salary, Group Finance Director 43.75% of salary.
Maximum Comprises of fixed pay and the maximum value of bonus Chief Executive 175% of salary, Group Finance Director 150% of salary and 1 normal policy PSP awards Chief Executive 200% of salary, Group Finance Director 175% of salary.
No account has been taken of share price growth, or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the deferred element of bonus and PSP awards over the deferral performance periods.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive Finance Director 3,500 3,500 3,000 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,000 2,000 1,500 1,500 1,000 1,000 500 500 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pay Annual Bonus PSP Fixed Pay Annual Bonus PSP For PSP awards the chart assumes the normal policy maximum of 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of base salary for the Group Finance Director.
The rules of the PSP state however that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary and, in exceptional circumstances, 300% of base salary see Policy Table above.
000s 000s Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
