William Hill PLC 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RepORT Of THe NOMINATION COMMITTee The Chairman of the Nomination The Committee appointed The Zygos Committee reports to the Board on the Partnership, an external consultancy, outcome of meetings.
to conduct the search and they are responsible for finding suitable candidates Non-executive Directors are appointed for from outside of William Hill.
The Zygos an initial three year term, extendable by Partnership has no other connection with a further two additional three-year terms.
In addition, we have internal The terms and conditions of appointment processes to identify potential Board our nomination Committee of non-executive and service contracts level candidates and the Nomination has a CritiCal role in ensurinG of executive directors are available Committee runs this in parallel with any there is an effeCtive proCess to shareholders for inspection at the external search.
in plaCe for future board Companys registered office during normal appointments and suCCession business hours and at the AGM.
David Edmonds, the Senior Independent planninG.
the Committee Director, completes his nine years of On joining the Board, Non-executive also ensures that the board service in 2014.
The Committee also Directors receive a formal appointment of William hill has the riGht therefore prepared a role description for letter, which identifies the time blend of skills, eXperienCe a Non-executive Director appointment commitment expected of them.
and knoWledGe in order to and the Zygos Partnership were once Once appointed, the new director maXimise the opportunities for again appointed to conduct the search.
undergoes a tailored induction and the suCCess of the Company Some of the important attributes for familiarisation programme implemented over the lonGer term.
the new appointment included finding by the Company Secretary with an individual with strong experience of input from the Chairman and Chief leading multi-national operations and on Executive.
Any potential director is Membership and meetings governance.
In February 2014, we were required to disclose all significant outside pleased to announce Sir Roy Gardner Set out below is the membership of the commitments prior to appointment would join the Board as a Non-executive Nomination Committee together with the and the Board has approved a policy Director from 3 March 2014. year in which membership commenced.
requiring disclosure and approval by the Board of all additional appointments for During 2013, the Committee also: Year of Director appointment executive or Non-executive Directors.
reviewed and agreed revisions There were no material changes in the Gareth Davis, Chairman 2010 to the membership of certain outside commitments of a director during David Edmonds 2005 Board committees: the period which impacted on the time Georgina Harvey 2011 required to commit to the Company.
recommended to the Board that Gareth Ashley Highfield 2009 Davis appointment as a Non-executive David Lowden 2011 Director and Chairman be extended for Main activities during 2013 Imelda Walsh 2011 a further three years to August 2016: During 2013, the Nomination Committee played an important part in ensuring considered several updates in respect The Company Secretary acts as secretary of the recruitment of a successor that the leadership of the business to the Committee.
All members of the remains well positioned for the future.
ChiefExecutive: and Committee are independent NonFollowing discussion between the executive Directors and the Committee discussed succession planning Chairman on behalf of the Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman.
and the composition of the Nonand Ralph Topping, it was agreed that In order to ensure there are fully informed executive Directors.
it would be prudent to commence a discussions, the Chief Executive and or search for a successor for the Chief the Group Human Resources Director Board diversity Executive.
A detailed description of the are invited to attend the meeting as role and capabilities required for the The Board supports diversity, recognising appropriate.
The Committee met on six successor appointment was approved by the benefits that diverse viewpoints can occasions during 2013. the Committee together with a selection contribute in decision-making.
Some of the capabilities for the intention of the Board always to keep the Role of the Nomination Committee role identified included a strong ability benefits that derive from a diverse Board A full copy of the terms of reference for to continue: in mind when making appointments.
the Committee can be obtained via the Currently 25% of the Board is comprised to drive revenue growth and to focus website at www.
We do not believe that setting on the development of the Groups request to the Company Secretary.
a quota is the most appropriate method technology-led business: for achieving a balanced Board and all The Committees principal responsibilities providing clear leadership and for our appointments are made on merit.
are to: continuing to develop a highly motivated We pursue diversity, including gender make appointment recommendations management team: diversity, throughout the business and will to the Board for the appointment, continue to follow a policy of appointing effective internal and external re-appointment or replacement talented people at every level to deliver communication with the business of directors: high performance.
We will ensure our key stakeholders: development in this area is consistent devise and consider succession planning playing an effective role representing with our own strategic objectives and is arrangements for directors and as the Companys position with relevant enhancing in terms of Board effectiveness.
appropriate other senior executives: and industry associations and regulators.
Gareth Davis regularly review the structure, skills, Chairman, Nomination Committee size, composition and balance of the Board and recommend any proposed changes.
