William Hill PLC 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT Dear shareholder, However, despite our strong results in 2013, profit before interest and tax, our Following my appointment as Chair primary annual bonus measure, did not of the Remuneration Committee the meet the stretching targets set by the Committee in January 2013, I am pleased Committee, including a Threshold level to present the Directors Remuneration which would permit the Committee Report for the financial period which to also consider performance against ended on 31 December 2013. personal objectives.
Therefore no annual We have undertaken a maJor bonus awards have been made to the During 2013, William Hill established a revieW of our remuneration second home territory in Australia and Chief Executive or the Group Finance arranGements durinG the Director in respect of 2013, despite both completed the acquisition of Playtechs year.
We firmly believe that 29% stake in William Hill Online.
We also executives meeting many of their individual our proposed remuneration performance objectives for the year.
delivered another strong set of results.
poliCy Will ensure that our Over the past five years, William Hill has eXeCutive team are inCentivised Approach for 2014 been transformed from a predominately to GroW our business and The Committee is fully aware of the UK Retail business to an international deliver above market returns importance of incentivising and retaining leader in our sector, particularly with our to shareholders over the neXt members of our industry-leading executive online operations.
The Board has also started a Given these changes, during 2013 search for a successor to Ralph Topping who has confirmed his intention to retire.
the Committee decided to review remuneration arrangements for senior We need to be able to offer appropriate remuneration packages to new recruits executives.
This was a comprehensive review of all aspects of remuneration including a new Chief Executive in a very competitive market for talent.
and how it could support the further development of William Hill.
The Committee also wants our current Chief Executive to be appropriately We see significant growth opportunities, particularly in mobile and in selected incentivised to drive the business forward over the remainder of his tenure, and to markets outside the UK.
We recognise, however, the challenges we face, leave a strong foundation in place for his successor.
In determining our proposals including the likely introduction of a new Point of Consumption Tax POCT in the for 2014, the Committee recognised that executive director remuneration, UK affecting our Online business from December 2014.
The gambling industry particularly incentive provision, was significantly behind market levels for an is at a critical juncture and the Board is focused on unlocking and fully exploiting increasingly international company of our complexity and size.
We were also guided opportunities as they arise to enable the Group to continue delivering above market by what we felt was best for the on-going success of William Hill whilst recognising returns for our shareholders.
changing expectations regarding Highlights from 2013 remuneration policy amongst investors.
The Groups strong earnings per share EPS growth and upper quartile total shareholder return TSR performance over the last four years have resulted in 2010 and 2011 PSP awards vesting in full, based on performance to 31 December 2013.
The Committee considers that the long-term incentive payouts are representative of performance over the respective periods.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION RepORT In line with our commitment to explain the The proposed changes to annual Even after the changes, the total target rationale and context for remuneration bonus are less significant with, in the remuneration for both the Chief Executive decisions, the Chairman and I had case of the Chief Executive, a small and the Group Finance Director will remain constructive meetings with our major increase in the potential maximum below the median of the FTSE 70 to 130 shareholders, the ABI and ISS RREV in award and the target bonus reverting comparator group.
the period December 2013 to February to the historic level of 90% of salary.
Now that we have commenced the search 2014 to discuss and develop our key For a new Chief Executive the target for a new Chief Executive, these changes remuneration proposals for 2014, which bonus will be reduced to 85% of salary.
will enable us to compete for the best are summarised below: The maximum bonus of 150% of salary candidates.
Our recruitment policy, set out for the Group Finance Director is now No increase in base salary for the Chief on page 60, reflects these changes.
aligned with the market, and the target Executive and the Group Finance bonus is increased to 70% of salary.
Our Chairman, Gareth Davis, has agreed Director in 2014.
We have however The current high level of 70% of bonus to extend his appointment until 31 August reviewed our approach to pension being deferred in shares for three years, 2016.
His leadership of the Company supplements.
The Group Finance is maintained for the current Chief during the transition to a new Chief Director will now receive a pension Executive but the Committee believes Executive will be of critical importance.
supplement of 20% of salary and this it is more appropriate to reduce this to The Committee also reviewed his will be our policy for all future PLC 50% for a new Chief Executive, in line fee, taking into account the additional appointments including a new Chief with the deferral requirement for the commitment required over the transition Executive.
Ralph Topping will retain his Group Finance Director.
period and that the scale and complexity current supplement of 25% of salary.
of William Hill had changed considerably A significant change to our shareholding A proposal to introduce a new since he was first appointed.
His fee on guideline for the PLC directors is that, Performance Share Plan PSP for 2014 appointment in 2010 was 250,000 per in line with best practice, only owned with a four year performance period annum and the Committee recommended shares will count: previously the for future PSP awards.
This change to the Board that this be increased to guideline included deferred shares.
will align the Companys long-term 300,000.
However, we have determined The Chief Executive will be expected to incentive plan to our natural business that this increase will be implemented in own 150% of salary in shares and the cycle given the four-year nature of the two phases.
In September 2013 his fee Group Finance Director 100% of salary.
was increased to 280,000 and from A new Chief Executive will be expected In view of the longer performance September 2015 it will rise to 300,000. to own shares worth 200% of salary.
period, the typical annual grants for the The Committee has updated the format Chief Executive and Group Finance The rules of our incentive plans will of the Remuneration Report this year, Director have been increased in line with reflect the latest best practice, in in line with new regulations governing market practice from 150% of salary to particular the introduction of clawback the disclosure and approval of directors 200% and 175% of salary respectively.
The Policy Report will be 50% of the award will be based on TSR, we would like wider discretion, which put forward for a binding vote and the as now and 25% on EPS.
The remaining can be used to adjust the vesting Annual Report on Remuneration will be 25% will be based on achievements outcome of both the annual bonus subject to an advisory vote, both at our against certain revenue related and PSP if we feel that the payment is AGM on 8 May 2014.
We will also be measures the Business Performance inconsistent with the Groups overall putting forward a separate resolution to Measures.
These are net revenue performance.
However, we recognise adopt a new PSP.
growth in mobile Sportsbook, mobile that this is an area where investors and gaming, and our Australian digital institutions want greater transparency Finally, I would like to thank my business.
The Committee believes that and we welcomed the opportunity to colleagues on the Committee for their this combination of measures will create clarify our position when we spoke to hard work during 2013 and the support the best alignment for the delivery our shareholders.
We therefore commit we have received from the William Hill of the Companys ambitious growth to consulting in advance of any final management team.
plans during a demanding period with decision to exercise discretion where The activities of the Committee during the the expected introduction of POCT in the proposal to do so would be to the year are summarised on page 72.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee If you have any comments or questions on during 2013 in respect of existing any element of the report, please e-mail remuneration policy.
Imelda Walsh The Committee recognises that the Chairman, Remuneration Committee proposed increases in remuneration potential are significant but believe that they are essential to remain competitive, particularly in the context of the adoption of a longer PSP performance period, the introduction of malus and clawback and tougher share ownership guidelines.
