William Hill PLC 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Recruitment policy The Committees overriding objective is to appoint executive directors with the necessary background, skills and experience to ensure the continuing success of the Company.
We recognise that the increasing pace of change and technology development in our industry, as well as the international nature of the William Hill business, will mean that the right individuals may often be highly sought after.
The remuneration package for a new executive director will therefore be set in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy as set out on pages 63 to 70 of the Directors Remuneration Report, subject to such modifications as are described below.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buyout arrangements that may be offered on an annual basis to a new executive will be in accordance with the individual plan limits, being 175% of salary in the annual bonus plan and 225% of salary or 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances in the Performance Share Plan.
In the majority of cases, where an external appointment is made, the individual, on resignation, will forfeit incentive awards connected with their previous employment.
The Committee may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-based payments to buy-out these existing entitlements by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the Committees view, under either the Companys existing incentive plans or under other arrangements.
In determining the appropriate form and amount of any such award, the Committee will consider various factors, including the type and quantum of award, the length of the performance period and the performance and vesting conditions attached to each forfeited incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into account the terms of the executive director appointment.
The salary level for a new executive director will be determined with care by the Committee, taking into account the individuals background, skills, experience, the business criticality and nature of the role being offered, the Companys circumstances, and taking into account relevant external and internal benchmarks.
Above all, the Committee must exercise its own judgement in determining the most appropriate salary for thenew appointment.
In certain circumstances, the Committee will have set a starting salary which is positioned below the relevant market rate and may therefore wish to adjust the executive directors salary, at a level above the average increase in the Company, as the individual gains experience and establishes a strong performance track record in the role.
Conversely the salary may need to be positioned above the relevant market rate in order to attract the most appropriate candidate for the role.
Benefits will be provided in accordance with the approved policy.
Relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment may be paid as appropriate.
The Committee recognises that our shareholders need to fully understand the remuneration package for a new executive director, and is committed to communicating full details and our reasons for agreeing the remuneration at the time of appointment.
We will clearly identify any remuneration elements which are specific to the initial appointment.
Fees for a new Non-executive Director or chair will be set in accordance with the approved policy.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Non-executive Directors of appropriate calibre and experience.
Operation The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
The remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors, within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to Non-executive Directors of similarly sized companies to William Hill, remuneration is set taking account of the commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role.
Opportunity The Chair receives a single fee to cover all his Board duties.
Non-executive Directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees for those Non-executive Directors who chair the primary Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details of current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance metrics No performance metrics apply.
Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are engaged by letters of appointment which are terminable by either party with no notice period and no compensation in the event of such termination.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension and benefits schemes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and would be expected to serve for an additional three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive Directors may then be requested to serve for a further three-year term subject to rigorous review at the relevant time and agreement with the director.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
