Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Corporate governance report The Board Membership On 3 February 2013, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
On 1 March 2013, Richard Gillingwater was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
As part of the orderly handover of responsibilities from outgoing Group Finance Director Richard Pennycook to Trevor Strain, it was announced on 8 March 2013 that Richard would retire from the Board, and Trevor would be Sir Ian Gibson appointed to the Board with effect from 10 April 2013.
On Chairman 13 March 2013, Nigel Robertson stood down as a Non-Executive Director.
Throughout the year, the majority of the Board consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of appointments, roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set out on page 38.
UK Corporate Governance Code Board diversity The Board has prepared this report The Board currently includes two women members, 25% with reference to the UK Corporate of its total composition.
The Boards policy is that female representation should be maintained at not less Governance Code issued by the Financial than 20% and aspires that this should be higher than 30%.
This policy will continue to be considered as part Reporting Council in June 2010. of the Nomination Committees regular review of the Boards composition and skills.
During 2011 12, the Boards Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee reviewed and updated, and the Board Performance evaluation and training approved, its Corporate Governance Compliance Statement, which sets out how the Group complies with each of the provisions of the The performance of the Board, its committees and its Directors UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In light of the fact is assessed and appraised regularly.
The Chairman is responsible that there were relatively few changes to the Code in the year, for monitoring the performance of the Chief Executive, who in turn there were no significant changes to the Corporate Governance is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Group Compliance Statement during 2012 13.
That document also sets Finance Director.
out the statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, the list of matters reserved for Board review the Board, the membership of the Board and the various Board A review of the Board was carried out during the financial year.
The committees, together with the terms of reference of the various review took the form of the completion of questionnaires by each standing Board committees.
This document is available in the Director, prepared by the Company Secretary, and approved by the investor relations section of the Groups website, Boards Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
co. uk corporate Those responses were collated by the Company Secretarys office and reviewed by the Chairman and the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
The conclusions of that review were that the Board was effective, well informed and active, worked well as a team, and provided appropriate but supportive challenge to management as befits an effective board.
The effectiveness of the Board was considered within the context of three key criteria: the Boards ability to achieve its objectives, particularly with regard to the development of strategy, the oversight of risk and control, the monitoring of executive performance and the protection of shareholder and stakeholder interests: the Boards ability to work together effectively: and the Boards ability to maximise its use of time.
40 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met five times The Board has accepted the recommendations of the Corporate without management present to discuss the performance of the Compliance and Responsibility CCR Committee and in 2013 14 business and management, and the wider economic, commercial there will be a further independently facilitated external evaluation.
and social environment in which the Group operates.
The Chairman arranges regular discussions between all the NonThe Board is satisfied that the arrangements for review and Executive Directors including himself as a group.
These are not appraisal of the performance of the Board, its committees and part of a strict timetable, as they are influenced by circumstances individual Directors are appropriate.
The Board is also confident from time to time.
However, these discussions take place roughly that the initiatives which have been implemented already or which at or around every alternate Board meeting.
The Senior are in progress will enable the Group to satisfy the best practice Independent Director has also coordinated a meeting of the recommendations of the Code in relation to Board evaluation.
Non-Executive Directors which carried out an appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
As part of this process, he also sought During the course of 2012 13, the Group has continued with the views of the Executive Directors.
ad-hoc Board training sessions and built on the extensive training programme conducted by the Board in the two previous financial Board responsibilities years, including training on food safety and competition law.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and Nigel Robertson was appointed to the Audit Committee on key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards 9 February 2012.
There were no further changes to the achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, composition of the Boards principal committees or the critical operational issues and risks, including regular review and chairmanship of those committees during the year.
formal approval of the Groups risk register.
The Board also approves all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and Senior Independent Director correspondence to shareholders, including the annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report and interim Nigel Robertson was the Boards Senior Independent Director from management statements.
March 2011 until his resignation on 13 March 2013.
He has, and had, extensive knowledge of the Groups business and its activities.
The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains Throughout his period of tenure as Senior Independent Director, unaltered and further details are available in the Corporate he was available to shareholders as an alternative to the Chairman, Governance Compliance Statement set out in the investor relations the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Nigel also section of the Groups website, www.
co. uk corporate coordinated the review of the performance of the Chairman by the Non-Executive Directors, the latest having been carried out in Management Board January 2013.
The Management Board is made up of representatives of the senior Non-Executive Directors management of the Group and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It has detailed terms of reference and has responsibility for the The Non-Executive Directors bring a varied range of skills and day-to-day operations of the Group.
This includes development experience to the Group.
Details of their experience outside the and implementation of strategy subject to overall supervision by Group are set out in their respective biographies on page 38. the Board, financial performance, reporting and control, risk The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors, including management, operational improvement programmes, the entry the Non-Executive Chairman, remain independent according to the by the Group into major contracts and commitments, the definition contained in the Code.
No Non-Executive Director: development of corporate policies and procedures, and the has previously been employed by the Group within the past ongoing review and supervision of the operational activities of the five years: business of the Group.
It reviews and makes recommendations to has had a material business relationship with the Group within the Board in respect of budgets, long term planning and dividend the past three years: levels, as well as reviewing proposed announcements, whether receives remuneration other than Directors fees: financial or related to ad-hoc events.
It also keeps under has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, Directors supervision the Groups senior management talent, capabilities or senior employees: and succession plans.
holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other Directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of represents a significant shareholder: or insurance cover for all Directors to defend themselves against has served on the Board for more than nine years.
legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 75m in aggregate.
All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction to the business.
The minimum time commitment Trevor Strain was appointed to the Management Board during expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one day per month the year, and Casper Meijer joined the Company as Group attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, Trading Director and was appointed to the Management Board Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance and operations of the Group.
This has been confirmed by the Board effectiveness evaluation referred to earlier in this report.
41 Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Corporate governance report continued Committees of the Board b Remuneration Committee The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Non-Executive Director Remuneration, Nomination and CCR Committees.
The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to encourage a strong performance culture and an Full terms of reference of the Boards committees are available on emphasis on long term shareholder value creation.
The intention is request and in the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement to position remuneration arrangements competitively against the set out in the investor relations section of the Groups website, market with a clear reward structure to enable the Group to attract, www.
co. uk corporate retain and motivate the best talent who are key to the Groups past and future success.
a Nomination Committee The HR Director and the HR and reward and benefits teams have The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman, Sir Ian advised the Group on all remuneration related matters, including Gibson.
During the year, the activities of the Committee were pensions and Executive Directors contracts.
Where necessary, this focused on advice to the executive management on the search for was supplemented by advice from external advisers.
a new Group Finance Director, a new Commercial Director, a new Company Secretary, the composition of the Management Board The Committee also receives guidance from its appointed advisers and on senior management succession planning.
The Committee on remuneration matters: Pension Capital Strategies Limited a has engaged an executive search agency, MWM Consulting, to member of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group in respect of assist in the process of identification of potential Non-Executive pensions, and Ashurst LLP in respect of Executive Directors candidates to join the Board as and when appropriate.
contracts and  LLP as its remuneration adviser.
The activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year are set out in more detail in the Remuneration report from page 45.
During the year, membership of the Committees was as follows: Committee membership Name Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR 1 Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips 1 Philip Cox 1 Penny Hughes Nigel Robertson 1 Johanna Waterous 1 Chair of the Committee The Directors attended the following number of Board and Committee meetings: Committee membership Name Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Sir Ian Gibson 11 11 5 5 9 9 3 3 Dalton Philips 11 11 5 5 3 3 Richard Pennycook 11 11 Philip Cox 10 11 5 5 9 9 5 5 Penny Hughes 10 11 4 5 9 9 4 5 3 3 Nigel Robertson 11 11 5 5 9 9 5 5 3 3 Johanna Waterous 11 11 5 5 9 9 5 5 3 3 42 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements c Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Non-Executive Director supply non-audit services and the Committee has reviewed the Philip Cox, who has the requisite recent and relevant financial scope of non-audit services provided by the external auditor to experience.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the ensure that there was no impairment of objectivity.
A copy of the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and making non-audit services policy is available in the Corporate Governance recommendations to the Board as to: Compliance Statement set out in the investor relations section of the integrity of financial reports, including reviewing significant the Groups website at www.
This financial reporting issues and considering how these issues have non-audit services policy is designed to assist the Company and been addressed: each of its subsidiaries in ensuring that the engagement of the the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk external auditor to provide non-audit services: management system: and is only carried out in appropriate circumstances: the independence of the external auditor.
is transparent: and does not impair the judgement or independence of the The Audit Committees responsibilities have not changed during external auditor.
When assessing the non-audit services for approval, the Audit The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional Committee will take the following into consideration: development needs of its members, and whether adequate whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it the technical information is being provided.
Where necessary, it will most suitable supplier of the non-audit service: seek independent external advice at the Groups expense, with whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no such arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
The threat to the objectivity or independence in the conduct of the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the audit resulting from the provision of such services by the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and other finance department external auditor: representatives have attended meetings by invitation.
the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the fee levels, individually and in aggregate, relative to the audit i Overview of actions taken by the Audit Committee in fee: and discharging its duties the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals performing the audit.
The Committee has received and reviewed reports and presentations from senior management to fulfil its terms of The external auditor also follows its own ethical guidelines and reference.
To meet its responsibilities in this respect, continually reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence the Committee considered: is not compromised.
interim and preliminary announcements, together with any other formal announcements relating to financial performance: Although the auditor has been in place for a number of years, the the accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted in the auditor periodically changes its audit partners in accordance with Groups financial statements, including, where necessary, professional and regulatory standards in order to protect challenging the judgements made: and independence and objectivity and provide fresh challenge to the potential effects of tax and pensions accounting, and other the business.
significant judgemental and complex accounting issues dealt with in the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the FRC in September 2012 and, The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with the in particular, the recommendation to put the external audit out to external auditor.
Private meetings are held with the external tender at least every ten years.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand their views on the control and The Audit Committee is satisfied with the auditors effectiveness governance environment and managements effectiveness within and independence: and the degree of diligence and professional it.
To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the independence and scepticism in the external audit process.
As such, the Committee effectiveness of the external auditor, the Committee reviewed: has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender process for the the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work of the appointment of its auditor and has recommended to the board that external auditor as set out in the engagement letter: the auditor be reappointed for 2013 14. the external auditors work plan for the Group: the detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion of any The Audit Committee will review, not less than annually, whether major issues that arose during the audit: the incumbent auditor should remain in place or whether an the letter from the external auditor confirming their auditor selection process should be initiated.
independence and objectivity: and the audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided by ii Internal control the external auditor.
The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal In the year, the external auditor has continued to provide a controls for the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
Executive significant level of non-audit work, primarily to provide the Board management is responsible for implementing and maintaining with independent assurance in respect of IT systems replacement.
This system is intended to manage rather The Board believes that this activity is a reasonable extension of than eliminate the risk of not meeting the Groups strategic the auditors statutory work and that there are safeguards in place objectives: recognising that certain inherent risks may be outside to avoid a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
Board has a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to 43 Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Corporate governance report continued The Board delegates to the Audit Committee the review of the The Committees remit does not cover operational matters, but it effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management performs an oversight, monitoring and advisory role in relation to systems.
During the year, the Committee discharged this these key areas in the Groups governance and development.
responsibility by: receiving and considering regular reports from the Risk and The Committee, which reports to the Board, met three times Internal Audit function on the status of internal control and risk during the year and, as well as reviewing its terms of reference, management systems across the Group.
The Committee also it received presentations on the Groups CR, health and safety, reviewed the departments findings, annual plan and the and competition compliance policies and procedures.
resources available to it to perform its work: reviewing the external auditors management letters on internal Our CR programme is published in our 2012 13 Corporate financial control: Responsibility Review, produced concurrently with this report.
seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness The programme has been independently assured by Two of the management of key risk areas: and Tomorrows under the AA1000AS 2008 framework.
monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements See www.
co. uk cr response to identified audit issues.
Shareholder relations The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Head of The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet regularly Risk and Internal Audit on any whistle blowing activity in respect with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Investor Relations of concerns expressed by colleagues about possible malpractice or Director also carries out a regular programme of work that reports wrongdoing.
While there were no significant concerns raised by to the Board the views and information needs of institutional and colleagues, all actions required were discussed and agreed with major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group the Committee.
The Audit Committee also reviews the progress maintains with its institutional shareholders.
of the Groups significant system changes.
The Chairman regularly meets with major shareholders and he The Board is satisfied that a continual process for identifying, actively encourages major shareholders to contact him if they wish evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the to discuss any aspect of the Group or its governance arrangements financial year and up to the date of this annual report and financial with him.
To date, no material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback financial statements.
The Board confirms that, if significant from investors following the 2011 12 annual and 2012 13 interim weaknesses had been identified during this review, the Board results.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM unless The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and unavoidably unable to do so.
The Chairman and the Chairs of the consolidation processes are designed under the supervision of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and CCR Committees are Group Finance Director to provide reasonable assurance regarding available to answer any questions.
the reliability of financial reporting, and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published financial statements for Code compliance external reporting purposes in accordance with International The Board is confident that its corporate governance policies and Financial Reporting Standards.
procedures are appropriate and that the Company is fully compliant with the Code.
In line with the best practice recommendation set Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial out in Code Principle B.
7.1, all Directors will be submitted for reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent re-election at its AGM.
or detect all misstatements, whether caused by error or fraud.
Share capital and control The Groups internal control over financial reporting and the Details relating to share capital and control are contained within preparation of consolidated financial information includes policies the General Information section on page 55. and procedures that provide reasonable assurance that transactions have been recorded and presented accurately.
Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal controls in place in respect of the processes of preparing consolidated financial information and financial reporting.
d Corporate Compliance and Responsibility CCR Committee The CCR Committee, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, Penny Hughes, reviews and oversees the development and implementation of policy in relation to health and safety, environmental, competitive and ethical compliance, corporate responsibility CR, including the Groups engagement with community organisations and charitable bodies, and governance and other reputational management issues.
