Board of Directors as at 31 July 2013 Gareth Davis Ian Meakins John Martin Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointed on 1 July 2003 and became Chairman on Appointed on 13 July 2009.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management Extensive operational and financial management Extensive international board and general experience in brand, retail and wholesale distribution experience: Mr Martin has significant experience of management experience, having served on management: strategic vision and extensive cost control, driving productivity, finance and systems variouscompany boards for many years.
transformation programmes, leading business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital Experience Experience efficiency, tax, treasury and compliance activities.
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco industry and Mr Meakins was, until April 2009, Chief Executive was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Group plc ofTravelex Holdings Ltd, the international foreign Experience from its incorporation in 1996 until May2010.
Age 63. exchange and payments business.
Previously he was Mr Martin, a chartered accountant, joined the Company Chief Executive officer of Alliance UniChem plc until as Chief Financial officer on 1 April 2010 and assumed Committee membership itsmerger with Boots in July 2006 and prior to that, responsibility for Wolseley Canada from August 2013.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a between 2000 and 2004, was President, European He was previously a partner at Alchemy Partners, the member of the Major Announcements Committee.
Major Markets and Global Supply for Diageo plc, private equity group, and prior to that was Chief Financial External appointments spending over 12 years with the company in a variety officer with Travelex Group and Hays Plc, the business Chairman of William Hill PLC and DS Smith Plc.
Mr Martin started his career at Arthur stepped down from the board of the Impetus Trust in Andersen before joining The Stationery Ofce Group, on March 2013.
Age 57. its privatisation, where he was Group Controller.
Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Executive Committee and a member Chairman of the Major Announcements, Disclosure of the Major Announcements, Treasury and and Treasury Committees and a member of the Disclosure Committees.
External appointments External appointments Non Executive Director of Centrica plc.
Andrew Duff Pilar Lpez Alan Murray Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 1 July 2004 and will step down on Appointed on 1 January 2013.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong financial and international experience Considerable international operational experience and Broad knowledge of international business: strategic withinglobal businesses.
extensive executive management experience within management and strong customer service experience.
Experience Experience Ms Lpez is currently Chief Financial officer for Experience Mr Duff spent 16 years at BP plc before he joined Telefnica Europe, a position she has held since 2007.
Mr Murray has been a member of the Supervisory Board National Power in 1998.
In 2000 he was appointed She is also a Supervisory Board member of Telefnica of HeidelbergCement AG since 2010 and was previously tothe board of Innogy plc upon its demerger from Czech Republic AS and Vice Chairman of the a Non Executive Director of International Power plc National Power and its listing on the London Stock Supervisory Board of Telefnica Deutschland Holding between 2007 and 2011.
Prior to that, he spent Exchange.
In 2003 Mr Duff became CEO of npower and AG.
She joined Telefnica in 1999 working in a number 19yearsat Hanson plc and was Group Chief Executive amember of the RWE Group Executive Committee.
of finance andstrategy positions across the European between 2002 and 2007.
From 2007 until the end He was appointed Non Executive Chairman of RWE and LatinAmerican businesses.
Prior to this she of2008 he was a member of the Management Board npower until his retirement inDecember 2010.
Age 54. worked in a variety of roles at J. P. Morgan, inMadrid, ofHeidelbergCement AG.
Mr Murray is a qualied London and New York whereshe became a Vice chartered management accountant.
Senior Independent Director until 1 October 2013.
Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 1 August 2013.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 1 August 2013.
Senior Independent Director from and Nominations Committees until 26 November 2013.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
External appointments External appointments Chairman of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Chief Financial officer of Telefnica Europe.
Member of External appointments Ltd.
Member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
the Supervisory Board of Telefnica Czech Republic AS.
Member of the Supervisory Board of Fellow of the Energy Institute.
Member of the Board of Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Telefnica HeidelbergCement AG.
Trustees of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Member of the Deutschland Holding AG.
Board of Trustees of the Earth Trust.
Wolseley plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Frank Roach Tessa Bamford Michael Clarke Chief Executive officer, North America Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Appointed on 16 December 2005.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong business and operational leadership: Extensive City experience having held senior advisory Extensive board and executive management management of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
roles in both the UK and USA across a rangeof experience within global businesses with strong Business development and wide ranging sectors.
finance, marketing and distribution capabilities.
Experience Experience Experience Ms Bamford was formerly a Director of Cantos Mr Clarke, a qualied accountant, spent his early Mr Roach is responsible for all of the North American Communications, the online communications service career in South Africa and Hong Kong working for businesses and since August 2013 devotes his time provider, from 2001 to 2011.
He joined Reebok International in 1991 primarily to the further development of Ferguson Director of J Henry Schroder & Co where she worked andserved as Vice President of South Asia Pacic.
Enterprises, Inc. in the USA.
He first joined Ferguson for 12 years in a number of roles between 1986 and Between 1996 and 2008 he held various roles at in1976 and has held a number of business roles.
Prior to that, Ms Bamford worked incorporate TheCoca-Cola Company including President of South In 2005, Mr Roach was appointed as Senior Vice finance for Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Pacic and Korea, and President of North West Europe President of the Wolseley North America management and Nordics.
Between 2008 and 2011, he was Committee membership team, playing a key part in further developing and President of Kraft Foods Europe, headquartered in Member of the Audit, Remuneration and expanding the Groups North American businesses.
From 2011 to 2013, he was Chief Executive Nominations Committees.
He was appointed as ChiefExecutive officer, officer ofPremier Foods plc.
External appointments NorthAmerica on 16 December 2005.
Committee membership Consultant at Spencer Stuart.
Non Executive Director Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and of Barratt Developments plc.
A Governor ofthe British Member of the Executive Committee.
A member of the Board of External appointments Trustees of Jos Cervical Cancer Trust.
Non Executive Director of Quiksilver, Inc. Committee membership as at 31 July 2013 Major  ation ations ments 1 2 Committee Committee Committee Committee Gareth pi Davis Ian Meakins i Michael Wareing CMG Richard Shoylekov John Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel p Martin Frank Appointed on 1 October 2009.
Roach Key strengths Responsibilities Tessa Comprehensive board and financial management Mr Shoylekov, a solicitor, has responsibility for the Bamford iii experience: significant commercial and international Groups legal affairs, risk management and corporate Michael experience having served in various advisory roles.
Age 48. iii Clarke Experience Committee membership Andrew Mr Wareing was International Chief Executive of KPMG Secretary to the Board and all Committees of the ipi Duff from 2005 until he retired in September 2009, having Board.
Member of the Major Announcements, previously been Chief Executive of KPMGs Europe, Disclosure and Executive Committees.
Pilar iii Lpez Middle East and Africa region.
Throughout his career MrWareing has been closely involved with a number Alan ofcharities and public bodies.
He was formerly the Murray iii Prime Ministers Special Envoy for the reconstruction Michael ofSouthern Iraq.
Age 59. pii Wareing Committee membership Richard Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of 111 i1 Shoylekov theRemuneration and Nominations Committees.
p Chairman External appointments i Member Non Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee 1 Secretary and Senior Independent Director for Cobham plc and 1 Alan Murray succeeded Andrew Duff as Chairman Intertek Group plc.
Economic Development Adviser oftheRemuneration Committee on 1 August 2013. tothe Government of Afghanistan.
2 Mark Fearon, Group Director of Communications andInvestorRelations, is also a member of the Major Announcements Committee.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Executive Committee The Executive Committee addresses operational issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring performance.
Additional biographical details for each member of the Executive Committee can be found on the Wolseley plc website www.
Ian Meakins Steve Ashmore Tony England Group Chief Executive Managing Director, UK Group Chief Information officer Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Broad international board and general management Considerable experience of construction materials Extensive international experience in senior IT experience in brand, retail and wholesale distribution distribution sector: strong international operational leadership roles across the pharmaceutical, banking management: strategic vision and extensive experience: logistics and supply chain and wholesale distribution industries.
Philippe Gardies Ole Mikael Jensen John Martin Managing Director, France Chief Executive officer, Nordic Region Chief Financial officer Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong management experience including in Strong international operational experience, Extensive operational and financial management production planning and business units, especially of togetherwith financial, construction, distribution experience.
Mr Martin has significant experience at heavyside, import and timber solutions business.
cost control, driving productivity, finance and systems transformation programmes, leading business expansion projects, acquisitions, disposals, capital efficiency, tax, treasury and compliance activities.
Bob Morrison Frank Roach Richard Shoylekov Group HR Director Chief Executive officer, North America Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Considerable human resources and operations Strong business and operational leadership experience Extensive management of legal affairs and corporate experience and executive search rm experience: and expertise in the management of subsidiaries and governance: development and implementation of risk astrong leadership development focus.
Wideranging business development management and legal and ethics compliance systems.
Wolseley plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
