Governance Corporate and governance structure of the Group Where does Wolseley plc carry on business What is Wolseleys governance structure?
and which rules apply to it?
The diagram below shows our governance structure.
Wolseley plc is a public company limited by shares and Board and Committees of the Board incorporated in Jersey with registered number 106605.
It is tax These take decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, and is therefore subject to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Board Although the Company being Jersey incorporated is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board retains its standards of governance and corporate responsibility as if it were subject to the Act.
It continues to provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that apply to a UK registered company.
Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Announcements Committee Committee Committee Under Wolseley plc, the Wolseley Group carries on its businesses Committee in 11 countries through a number of operating companies.
The Group is made up of six geographic regions: USA, Canada, UK, France, Nordics and Central Europe.
They are led by five Chief Executives and, in the case of Canada, by John Martin, the Chief Financial officer, all of whom report directly to Ian Meakins.
With the exception of the Chief Executive of Central Europe, they are all Executive Committee Members.
Other committees These implement strategic decisions and executive or administrative matters.
Executive Treasury Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Geographic Group regions functions USA Canada IT Legal UK Nordic Region HR Finance France Central Europe Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 Corporate and governance structure of the Group continued Early adoption of reporting requirements As referenced on page 64, the Board has taken the opportunity to implement some of the new reporting requirements provided in the Code and BIS regulations.
Set out below are details of which requirements have been adopted early and where this information can be found.
Reporting requirement Location Chief Executives review Description of the business model See pages 12 to 15 and strategy.
Audit Committee report Description of the significant See page 80 issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements and how these issues were addressed, having regard to the matters communicated to it by the auditors.
Audit Committee report Explanation of how the Audit See page 81 Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended reappointing or changing the auditors.
Nominations Committee Identication of search consultancies report used and any connections with See page 83 the Company.
Other disclosures Statement that the Directors See page 86 consider that the Annual Report How do we ensure good governance and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable throughout the Group?
and provides information necessary Wolseleys Group-wide policies and procedures provide for shareholders to assess the a framework for governance and are underpinned Companys business model by the Groups core values and its Code of Conduct.
Through the Groups core values we expect and Remuneration report ensure that: Future policy table and notes, See pages 90 to 94 performance scenario charts, t We act with integrity remuneration obligations in t We drive for results and improvement service contracts and statement of shareholder vote on the 2011 12 t We value our people remuneration report.
Remuneration report A copy of the Groups Code of Conduct Implementation report, remuneration See pages 95 to 101 isavailable on the Wolseley plc website paid to service advisers, single total www.
com gure tables, CEO pay comparison to company performance and relative importance of spend on pay.
Remuneration report Directors shareholdings and See page 102 variable pay awarded in the year.
Wolseley plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Leadership The Company is registered in Jersey and is tax resident in Who is on the Board?
During the year all meetings of the Board, As at 31 July 2013, the Board was made up of 10 members Committees of the Board and all other meetings requiring consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six decisions of a strategic or substantive nature were held outside Non Executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the the United Kingdom.
Directors in office as at 31 July 2013 are shown on pages 66 In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Groups and 67. operations and to provide further opportunities to meet senior The Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are each management, the Board intends to visit at least one of the Groups considered by the Board to be independent and free of any business unit locations each year.
Such visits allow the Board to relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise gain a deeper understanding of local market dynamics and assess of their independent judgement.
In addition, members of the Board periodically visit business units and meet management Provision B.
1.1. of the Code requires the Board to consider, around the Group.
where a Director has served for a period of more than nine years, whether that Director continues to be independent.
As at 1 July 2013, Andrew Duff had served nine years on the Board.
To facilitate Who attends Board meetings?
a smooth handover of both Chairman of Remuneration Committee Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board and and Senior Independent Director responsibilities it was agreed that Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior Mr Duff should remain a member of the Board and the Committees management from across the Group, and advisers, attend some of until the end of the 2013 AGM.
The Board believes this approach the meetings for the discussion of specific items in greater depth.
allows the Company to benefit from Mr Duffs extensive skills and experience whilst ensuring his continued independence.
It is important to the Board that it meets members of senior management from around the Groups businesses, as it further enhances the Boards understanding of operations, When and where does the Board meet?
the implementation of strategy and the changing dynamics The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee of the markets in which the business units operate.
meetings scheduled over two or three day periods.
There were six scheduled meetings and details of attendance are shown in the How does the Board operate and how are table below.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held during the Certain strategic decision-making powers and authorities of the year ended 31 July 2013: Company are reserved as matters for the Board.
The formal Board members: Meeting attendance and eligibility : schedule of matters reserved for its decision was updated during G Davis 6 6 the year to incorporate provisions relating to remuneration, risk management and review of performance, and to incorporate T Bamford 6 6 changes under Part C of the Code.
M Clarke 6 6 The principal matters reserved for the Board are set out in the table A Duff 6 6 on page 72.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the J Martin 6 6 Executive Committee, led by Ian Meakins.
I Meakins 6 6 Where appropriate, matters are delegated to a Committee which F Roach 6 6 will consider them in accordance with its terms of reference.
Details of each Committees terms of reference are available M Wareing 6 6 to view on the Wolseley plc website www.
Members who joined during the year: 1 P Lpez 4 4 2 A Murray 4 4 1 Pilar Lpez was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2013.
2 Alan Murray was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2013.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, one unscheduled meeting was convened at short notice to deal with matters that needed to be considered before the next scheduled meeting.
All Directors were given notice of the meeting and some of them were unable to attend due to prior commitments which could not be rearranged.
The meeting was attended by Ms Bamford and Messrs Davis, Martin, Meakins, Roach and Wareing.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Leadership continued Summary of principal matters reserved for the Board: Setting the overall strategic direction and oversight of the management of the Wolseley Group Approval of major changes to the Wolseley Groups corporate structure Recommending or declaring dividends Approval of the Group and Company financial statements Maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk management Approval of tax and treasury items and policy outside the remit of the Treasury Committee Approval of major corporate transactions and commitments Succession planning and appointment to the Board and senior management Determining and setting Board and senior executive remuneration Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements and reviewing the performance of the Board and its Committees annually Approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all Committees of the Board Approval of all key policies, including the Code of Conduct, Health and Safety and Environmental policies Other miscellaneous matters What has the Board done during the year?
The Board has a rolling agenda programme which ensures that items relating to strategy, finance, operations, corporate governance and compliance are covered in its meetings.
An overview of the Boards 2012 13 objectives and how the Board has achieved these objectives is set out below: 2012 13 objectives Progress Strategy Strategy to be refined regularly and to include Aspects of the strategy and its implementation have assessment of external competitive pressures been reviewed throughout the year.
Annual strategy review completed in May 2013.
People and Succession Regular progress review to include succession Detailed reviews completed by the Board in Planning planning for the Board, Executive Committee March 2013. and leadership teams in all the regions.
Appointment of at least one other Non Executive Appointment of two new Non Executive Directors in Director.
Implement succession plan for Remuneration Succession plan successfully completed with the Committee Chairman Senior Independent Director handover of these roles to Alan Murray.
Board visibility and Scheduled site visits and Board level interaction with Attendance from the senior management of the Groups engagement senior management of all regions at Board meetings operating businesses at scheduled Board meetings and and at other times of the year.
business visits undertaken by the Directors.
Wolseley plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Having identified the areas which the Board focused on during the year, set out below are some highlights of its activities which provide an indication of the nature of the Boards work.
Strategy Operations Throughout the year, the Board considered the development of At least once in each year, the Board reviews in detail the the Companys strategy and evolution of its business models.
operational performance of each region.
Best practice that In addition, a full strategy review was undertaken through a was developed and shared amongst the businesses was dedicated Board Strategy Day in May 2013.
Management regularly presented by the Chief Executive and discussed by from all regions presented their proposals for the strategic the Board.
Items covered during the year included customer development of their businesses and there was detailed analysis service and e-commerce.
All information was readily available of some specific future initiatives.
More information on our to senior managers across the Group through a centrally strategy can be found on pages 12 to 15. maintained portal.
People Finance There was continued focus on the composition and succession The Board regularly monitored the Groups financial performance.
of the Board, Executive Committee and senior management A monthly performance pack was provided to the Board by the team.
In March 2013, as part of its regular talent and succession Chief Financial Officer which includes an overview of the Group review process and with the assistance of the Group HR Director, and business unit performance, market trends, competitor the Board conducted a detailed review of members of the activity and shareholder matters.
This was discussed at every Groups senior leadership team and their successors.
All financial statements to be released to the believes the talent and succession planning processes to be of market were discussed and reviewed.
was reviewed and approved at the July 2013 meeting.
What are the Boards priorities for 2013 14?
Board visit to the US The Boards priorities for the year will focus on ensuring effective Members of the Board visit the Groups geographic execution of existing strategic plans.
operations on an ongoing basis and, in July 2013, the 2013 14 objectives Board and Committee meetings were held in New York.
Strategy Regularly review and monitor the Groups progress This provided an opportunity for executives from our against its strategic objectives.
These include the businesses in the United States to meet the Board and further refinement of business models and improving discuss the business strategy and operational performance the productivity of its existing operations, of those businesses in the United States in more detail.
accelerating profitable growth through organic During the visit, the Board was given a tour of the head office expansion and selective acquisitions where and principal warehouse facility of the Davis & Warshow opportunities would provide strong synergies.
business, acquired by the Group in October 2012.
The Board Annual strategy review.
met with a range of senior executives as well as branch-based employees, received an in-depth presentation of the People Regular review to include maintaining the performance of the Davis & Warshow business and appropriate balance and depth of skills and discussed strategic development opportunities.
experience of the Board, succession planning of the Board, the Executive Committees and leadership teams in all regions and to continue making progress in improving workforce diversity.
Why should you vote to re-elect your Board?
The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from a variety of industries and advisory roles, which fully complement each other and have been strengthened through further appointments in January 2013.
7.1. of the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Andrew Duff, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Full biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 66 and 67 and in the Notice of AGM.
As Andrew Duff will be standing down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, he wil not be putting himself forward for re-election.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Effectiveness There was detailed planning throughout the year, with the How do we maintain an effective Board?
assistance of the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, Board relationships to consider and review the Boards 12-month rolling agenda programme.
This ensured that all matters reserved for the Board The effective working of the Board is crucial to the long-term and other strategic issues were discussed at the appropriate time.
prospects and strategic aims of the Company.
This is achieved through strong and open working relationships between the Directors and, in particular, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Board support and Senior Independent Director, whose roles are agreed and The Board and its Committees are provided with sufficient set out in writing.
A short summary of their roles and division of resources to undertake their duties.
The Group Company Secretary responsibilities is set out below.
and General Counsel, Richard Shoylekov, was Secretary to the Roles and division of responsibilities Board and its Committees during the year.
Prior to each set of meetings he ensured that the papers and other information were Chairman delivered sufficiently in advance of the meeting date so that all Responsible for overall leadership and governance of the Board Directors were provided with necessary time and resources to fulfil including induction, development and performance evaluation their duties.
This information is published in advance via a secure web portal, allowing remote access by Directors using an iPad.
Ensures that the Directors have an understanding of the views As well as meeting support, the Company Secretariat department of the Companys major shareholders and other Group functions provided the Directors with induction Ensures a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board briefings and visits to key businesses, training and updates on and Committee meetings the business.
Group Chief Executive In addition to receiving regular briefings throughout the year on consultations, governance, legal and regulatory matters, all Responsible for the effective leadership of the Company Directors have access to a reading room through the iPad portal Strong and focused management and development of the which provides access to a library of relevant information about the Groups operations Company, the Group and Board procedures.
Implementation of the Companys objectives and strategy The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if necessary, agreed by the Board to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the direct access Maintaining good relationships and communications with that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary and investors General Counsel for his advice and services.
Working closely with the Chief Financial Officer to ensure prudent financial controls Refreshment and development of the Board Developing and implementing policies integral to improving As noted on page 64, Pilar Lpez and Alan Murray were appointed the business, including in relation to Health and Safety and as Non Executive Directors during the year.
As new Directors, they Corporate Responsibility were provided with a comprehensive induction programme, which Senior Independent Director is standard for all new Directors, details of which are summarised on page 75.
Available for approach by or representations from investors and shareholders, where communications through the Chairman or All Directors are provided opportunities for further development and Executive Directors may not seem appropriate training following their induction and, during the year, the Chairman discusses a development plan with each Director.
In addition to the A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the regular updates on governance, legal and regulatory matters, the other Directors when necessary Board also receives detailed briefings from advisers on a variety of Available to chair the Board in the absence of the Chairman topics that are relevant to the Group and its strategy.
The annual formal review of governance provides the Directors with an Conducts consultations with shareholders on remuneration opportunity to assess their effectiveness and that of the Board matters as a whole.
The Chairman regularly discusses the way the Board functions, and broad governance matters, with the Senior Independent Director and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Senior Independent Director separately held informal discussions with the Non Executive Directors, with and without the presence of the Chairman.
In his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee he has also led extensive consultations with shareholders on remuneration matters.
Wolseley plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Induction programme The Companys induction programme for new Directors was The meetings with the advisers were improved during the year to reflect what was regarded as best practice.
The new Non Executive Directors, Pilar Lpez and very useful.
The tour of the Pipe and Alan Murray, were provided with an induction programme Drain Center branches was a great way aimed at ensuring they developed an understanding and awareness of our businesses, people and processes.
to get to know the UK business, what The programme included: our people do and how they feel, how Provision of relevant current and historical information about the Company and the Group the business makes money, what our Specific details about the duties of Directors and the customers look like and what they want.
Companys rules of residence in light of its registration Finally, the meeting with the UK in Jersey and tax residence in Switzerland management team and the visit to the Meetings with major shareholders and advisers Visits to operations around the Group National Distribution Centre was a good One-to-one meetings with members of the Executive wrap up to put everything into context.
Committee and other senior executives in the businesses and in corporate functions Pilar Lpez Non Executive Director How is the performance of the Board and the Directors evaluated?
The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
The external evaluation in 2012, undertaken by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, identified a number of areas for improvement.
During the year the Board reviewed its progress.
A summary of how the action points have been addressed is provided below: Action point Responsibility Outcome Greater focus on competitive Board Regular updates were provided to the Board concerning the benchmarking, monitoring customer performance of competitors and trends in customer preferences trends and strengthening supply chain.
when this information became available.
There were further in-depth reviews of the Groups development of its business models.
Enhance Board oversight of risk through Board, Audit Committee Improvements were made to the management and review of risk review of improved management and Internal Audit through the Internal Audit, internal controls and risk functions.
coordination of Internal Audit, internal All Directors attended Audit Committee meetings where controls and risk management activities.
management of the Groups risks was reviewed.
In addition to All Directors to participate in Audit the regular Audit Committee review of the effectiveness of the Committee meetings where risk is risk management programme, the Board will discuss the main discussed.
risks in the context of the overall strategy and the extent to which those risks are acceptable.
Further improvement of the talent HR Reviews have been undertaken to identify and develop highdevelopment process in addition to the performing, high-potential people both in operational business roles scheduled six-monthly review.
Good progress has been made in developing long-term succession plans and to encourage diversity at graduate recruitment, middle management and senior management levels.
Address future gaps in the composition Board and Nominations Two new Non Executive Directors were appointed in January 2013. of the Board.
Committee The selection process in place ensured that we appointed the best individuals who would bring diverse backgrounds and an appropriate level of experience to each role.
Maximise the use of the Boards time Chairman and Group Detailed reviews of business performance, with senior management together, with more management briefings Company Secretary from the operating companies, coupled with site visits by Directors, and site visits.
and General Counsel both individually and collectively, maximised the used of the Boards time together and further strengthened the Boards knowledge of the Group.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Effectiveness continued How did we review effectiveness this year?
Time commitment This year, the Board effectiveness review was facilitated internally All Directors are aware, from the time of appointment, of the need using sets of questions adapted to address the activities and to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their concerns of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration responsibilities effectively.
The Board continually monitors potential Committee and the Nominations Committee.
An online survey conflicts of interest, as detailed on page 85. format was used, including questions from previous years in order to be able to compare responses and monitor progress as well External appointments as new questions reflecting current priorities and concerns.
They The Board believes that there are significant benefits for both the encouraged comment and qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness Board and the individual if an Executive Director holds an external of the Board and each Committee, the individual members and the non executive directorship on the board of a non-competitor support received from management and from advisers.
Ian Meakins continues to hold his non executive position of the surveys formed the basis of discussion of areas for further at Centrica plc: details of payments received in respect of this improvement by the Board and the Committees.
Each of the appointment are set out on page 104.
No other Executive Directors Directors continues to be considered by the Board to be effective hold any external appointments.
and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
Also during the year, the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior Accountability Independent Director, evaluated the performance of the Chairman, The Board is committed to presenting a clear assessment of taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Following the Companys position and prospects through the information the evaluation, the Board concluded that Gareth Davis should be provided in this report, through interim financial statements reappointed as Chairman for a further three year period.
and other reports as required.
What were the key findings and improvement actions?
How does the Board approach risk management?
The Board effectiveness review concluded that the Board had The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent strong and open dynamics with a good balance of skills.
The of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic standard of planning and support for the Board were considered objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal to be of a high quality: a good succession planning process was control systems.
The effectiveness of these systems is also considered to be in place.
No critical issues were identified but reviewed through the work of the Audit Committee.
the review did identify areas for further improvement which are summarised below.
There is a Group-wide standard framework in place which supports the Groups risk management programme and allows the Board to As at the date of this report, the Board has already begun to assess and manage risk through its strategic planning and incorporate a number of these action points into its processes performance monitoring processes.
The key risks which the Board has focused on this year are set out Action Responsibility in the Risk management and internal control section of this report Continued focus on measuring the Board on pages 42 to 47. performance of the Company against its own targets as well as the performance of Remuneration competitors.
Further details relating to the level and components of remuneration Enhance Board oversight of the Groups Board together with the Company policies on such matters are provided growth opportunities through more regular in the Remuneration report on pages 89 to 104. and detailed evaluation of projects.
When appointments are next made to the Board and Board, consider further expanding the range Nominations of skills and experience to reflect the Groups Committee strategic objectives.
Wolseley plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Relations with shareholders Shareholder concentration Communication with shareholders We are fully committed to engaging with all shareholders, including Individual and other private investors 0.7% employee shareholders, and this is reflected in our annual investor relations and communications programmes.
In our interactions with shareholders, we ensure that we act professionally, provide accurate data, are timely with our disclosure of information to the market and are at all times accessible.
Institutional investors 99.3% Our Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations is the senior executive who has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters and for contact with shareholders institutional and private, as well as with financial analysts and the media.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer and Group Geographical breakdown of shareholder base Chief Executive.
All investor communication is governed by written guidelines to ensure the appropriate governance of the processes for engaging United Kingdom with shareholders and financial analysts is maintained.
In addition, Asia 51% these guidelines govern the prompt disclosure of inside information North America 4% Europe which could affect the Companys share price.
25% excluding UK 18% Who are our major shareholders?
As at 31 July 2013 and as at the date of this report, the Company had received notification of the following material shareholdings Rest of World pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK 2% Listing Authority.
Number of Percentage of shares held issued voting Name millions share capital How do we engage with our shareholders?
Blackrock, Inc 32,736,613 11.95% During the year, an extensive communications programme was followed.
We maintained regular dialogue with institutional Cevian Capital II shareholders and financial analysts.
Many of these meetings GP Limited 14,690,088 5.17% and conversations closely involved the Group Chief Executive Fidelity 14,070,947 4.96% and Chief Financial Officer.
We released quarterly updates of AXA S. A.
13,065,225 4.60% the financial performance of the Group incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and appropriate commentary The Capital Group 1 on key business trends.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Companies, Inc. 8,364,048 3.05% Committee also engaged with major shareholders in relation 1 Comprises: Capital Guardian Trust Company 1,400,064 0.51%.
Capital Research and Management Company 6,963,984 2.54%.
As our shareholder base is mainly institutional, it is difficult to engage with all of our private shareholders using the same direct Top 100 investors concentration engagement model.
We hold periodic meetings with the UK Shareholders Association and respond to all communications Others Top 5 investors 21% from individual shareholders.
In an effort to ensure that all 27% shareholders have equal access to information we make all documents presented at investor events available on the Wolseley plc website.
There is also a shareholder information Rest of top 100 investors section on the Wolseley plc website www.
com and 18% at the end of this report on pages 170 to 172.
Rest of top 30 investors 34% Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Relations with shareholders continued Who did we meet during the year?
What are our plans for engagement in We are keen to maintain an open dialogue with all of our 2013 14?
shareholders and have a well developed investor relations A similar Investor Relations programme will be run during the programme.
The allocation of time spent in the UK, continental financial year.
In addition, the Investor Relations team will be Europe and North America reflects the distribution of our meeting with members of the UK Private Shareholders Association shareholders as highlighted on page 77. prior to the AGM in November 2013.
During the year ended 31 July 2013, there were a total of 245 meetings.
Ian Meakins and John Martin together with the Group 2012 AGM Director of Communications and Investor Relations attended The 2012 AGM was held on 29 November 2012 at Parkhotel in 116 meetings.
Frank Roach and the Chief Financial Officer, USA Zug, Switzerland with an audio-visual link to Deutsche Bank, attended 10 meetings.
In addition, the investor relations function London, UK.
The link allowed shareholders in London to see and met with institutions through a further 119 meetings, conferences hear proceedings, and provided the opportunity to put questions and site visits.
directly to the Board about the business of the meeting and about the Company.
The Board as a whole is committed to the The Chairman often meets with the larger institutional shareholders constructive use of the AGM as a way to meet with shareholders, and attended Full Year and Half Year results presentations.
He also hear their views and answer their questions.
All Directors attended ensures that the Board as a whole maintains an appropriate and answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also attend presentations of the Full Year and Half Year results when possible.
The Group Director of Communications and Investor 2013 AGM Relations regularly provides the Board with details of feedback The 2013 AGM will be held on 26 November 2013 at Parkhotel, received from institutional shareholders and any key issues raised.
Industriestrasse 14, CH-6304, Zug, Switzerland at 1.00pm Swiss time.
An audio-visual link to the meeting is proposed to Investors Day Virginia be available at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 26-28 Tudor Street, London, EC4Y 0BQ and will commence at On 23 October 2012, the Company held an Investors Day 12 noon UK time.
Full details of the AGM are contained in the in the USA which was attended by over fifty institutional Notice of AGM and are available on the Wolseley plc website investors and financial analysts.
The meeting was webcast on the Wolseley plc website.
The event included management presentations, a site visit to a large branch in Chantilly, Virginia and a tour of our Distribution Centre in Front Royal, Virginia.
Wolseley plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Audit Committee Including the report from the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 July 2013 At the 2013 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the Committees activities.
Other attendees In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, together with senior representatives of the Companys external auditors, attended and received papers for each meeting.
Other senior executives were Michael Wareing Chairman also invited to certain meetings to present and discuss specific items.
The Committee periodically meets separately with the Members and attendance eligibility Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the at meetings held during the year ended presence of executive management and also separately with 1 the Chief Financial Officer.
31 July 2013 Committee members: Meeting attendance and eligibility : What has the Committee done during M Wareing Chairman 4 4 the year?
T Bamford 4 4 An overview of the Committees 2012 13 objectives and how the M Clarke 4 4 Committee has achieved these objectives is set out below: A Duff 4 4 2012 13 objectives Progress Members who joined during the year: Continue to improve the The efforts were monitored 2 P Lpez 2 2 Committees total assurance throughout the year, with reports 3 efforts in relation to the Groups to the Committee from Internal A Murray 2 2 key risks and controls, including Audit, External Audit and ACE.
1 As at 31 July 2013, the Committee is made up of six Non Executive Directors.
Internal Audit, External Audit and The programmes for each area The Board considers that the Chairman and each member of the Committee internal controls, the Advanced of assurance, and their has relevant financial experience and is independent within the definition set out effectiveness, were also carried in the Code.
2 Pilar Lpez was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2013.
Continued vigilance over the In March and September each 3 Alan Murray was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2013. effects of the economic year, the Audit Committee downturn on the Group and on reviews key risks and controls Set out below is the report of the Audit Committee for the its financial position.
including the impact of market financial year ended 31 July 2013. conditions and how they have been managed in practice.
Dear Shareholder It has been yet another busy year for the Audit Committee and Prepare for the implementation We have monitored this debate much has been reviewed and reported from across the Group.
of the final requirements arising and our thoughts are detailed We have kept abreast of the ongoing consultations on audit reform from the current FRC and EU on page 81. and we have detailed our thoughts on page 81.
We have also debate on audit rotation and considered the changes provided in the new edition of the Code other audit governance matters, in September 2012 and the regulations published by the once these are known.
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to narrative reporting.
As outlined on page 70, we have taken the opportunity The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was to implement certain changes to our reporting earlier than required carried out in May 2013.
The review concluded that the Committee by the Code and the regulations.
meetings followed a balanced and broad programme: the Each member of the Committee brings relevant skills and information provided was good quality and timely: the work of the experience at a senior executive level and the appointment of Pilar external auditor was well scrutinised and that there was good Lpez and Alan Murray broadens the scope of expertise of the collaboration between internal and external auditors.
In addition, I was International Chief Executive of KPMG highlighted areas for improvement and we have incorporated these until I retired in September 2009 and I currently chair the Audit into our priorities for 2013 14 as set out on page 82.
Committee of two other FTSE 350 companies.
This provides the Board with further assurance that the Audit Committee meets the Code requirements that at least one member of the Committee has significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The key strengths and experience of each member of the Committee are summarised on pages 66 and 67.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Audit Committee continued French businesses during the year.
The Committee addressed Allocation of time spent during the year: this issue through a range of reporting outlining the commercial Set out in the table and the narrative below is a summary of matters agreements and actions undertaken including the considered by the Committee during 2012 13.
Key issues covered by appropriateness of any provisions required.
The Committee the Committee are reported to the subsequent meeting of the Board concluded that the classification and valuation of assets held for and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
sale and the period in which the restructuring costs were Sep Nov Mar May recognised was appropriate.
Financial reporting and significant The Committee reviewed the impairment analysis of goodwill financial judgements and other intangible assets.
The Committee considered and reviewed the assumptions used in the impairment calculations Full Year results and associated including the achievability of the long-term business plan, announcements applicable market conditions, long-term growth rates and Half Year results and associated discount rates and concluded they were reasonable.
The announcements Committee received and considered detailed feedback from External audit the external auditors covering this issue.
Auditors Full Year report to the Committee The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebate Independence review of external auditor income which is an area of inherent risk due to the number and complexity of supplier rebate arrangements and the majority of Effectiveness review of external auditor the arrangements being on a calendar year basis.
The Committee Review of engagement letter concluded the level of supplier rebate income and rebate Appointment recommendation to the Board receivable as at 31 July 2013 to be appropriate.
Auditors Half Year report to the Committee The Committee considered the provisions held and settlements Year-end external audit plan made in relation to litigation disputes, potential product liability, environmental claims and indemnities provided on business Chairmans approval of non-audit fees disposals.
The Committee addressed this issue by assessing Review of audit and non-audit fees managements reports and the extent to which they have taken Internal audit professional advice on these matters.
The Committee agreed with the position taken by management in respect of these Effectiveness review of internal audit matters.
Internal audit report to the Committee At the request of the Board, we considered whether the 2012 13 Annual plans for internal audit and internal Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and understandable controls ACE and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders Risk management to assess the Companys performance, business model and Fraud and whistleblowing report strategy.
We were satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2012 13 Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk management report to the Committee Review of the risk sections of the Annual Report External audit Review of risk management framework External audit processes Other During the year,  LLP PwC undertook Updates on accounting and corporate external audit and certain non-audit work.
The Group Audit Partner, governance developments Stuart Watson, together with Neil Grimes of the PwC audit team, Terms of reference review attended as representatives of the external auditors at each Audit Review of effectiveness of the Committee Committee meeting.
They also attended the 2012 AGM.
They provided the Committee with information and advice as well as relevant reports on the financial statements and controls.
Financial reporting and significant In November 2012, the Committee reviewed and approved the financial judgements terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the 2012 13 audit as set The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies have out in the external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, been adopted and whether management has made appropriate PwC provided audit related services such as regulatory and estimates and judgements and seeks support from the external statutory reporting.
PwC are expected to report to the Committee auditors to assess them.
As part of the review process, the any material departures from Group accounting policies and Committee has discussions with management and makes its procedures that they identify during the course of their audit work.
assessment in accordance with accounting guidelines.
The main None were found or reported in the financial year.
issues reviewed in the year ended 31 July 2013 and how these issues were addressed are summarised below: PwCs 2012 13 Year End External Audit Plan was approved in March 2013 and has been successfully completed at the date The Committee considered the accounting treatment of branch of this report.
disposals, closure costs and significant restructuring costs of the Wolseley plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Auditor appointment and effectiveness At each Committee meeting the Committee considered all requests for engagements of non-audit work to be performed by PwC for the Following the incorporation of the Company in Jersey in 2010, PwC Group.
The Committee followed its agreed policy regarding such were appointed as the Companys auditors.
PwC had been the services to ensure that the objectivity or independence of the auditors of Wolseley plc for many years prior to the redomiciliation external auditors was not impaired.
In accordance with this policy, of the Company.
any non-audit work which would exceed a level set by the The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance of Committee required prior approval of the Committee.
the external auditors, including feedback from the finance teams PwC also provides specific assurance to the Committee on the at each of the operating companies.
This review was conducted in arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its November 2012 and the Committee is satisfied that PwC continues independence and objectivity, including an internal process to preto provide an effective audit service.
The Group Audit Partner, approve provision of non-audit services and the use of separate currently Stuart Watson, is required to rotate after a maximum of teams where non-audit services are being provided to the Group.
five years, key audit partners after a maximum of seven years, and The Committee continues to be satisfied with their independence.
all other partners and senior team members after a maximum of ten years.
The Committee discusses audit partner rotation with PwC Audit and non-audit fees on a regular basis.
The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 July 2013 together There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys with a comparison to fees paid in the year ended 31 July 2012 choice of external auditor.
This year the Committee did not consider are set out in the following table.
Further disclosure of the non-audit it necessary to conduct a tender process for the appointment of the fees paid during the year ended 31 July 2013 can be found in Companys auditors.
note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 116.
External audit tendering Non-audit fees as a During the last two years, the Committee has been monitoring and, Audit-fees Non-audit fees Fees paid percentage of Financial year total total total audit fees through its Chairman, contributing to the debate on external audit 1 tendering.
The Committee has given preliminary consideration to 2013 3.4 million 2.2 million 5.6 million 64.7% the potential impact of the requirements by the UK Financial 2 2012 3.4 million 2.1 million 5.5 million 61.8% Reporting Council FRC regarding audit firm tendering, which are welcomed.
However, the Committee notes that both the European 1 1.8 million of the non-audit fees related to taxation work and 0.4 million of the non-audit fees related to other services.
Commission and the United Kingdom Competition Commission together, the Regulators have proposed potentially conflicting 2 1.9 million of the non-audit fees related to taxation work and 0.2 million of the non-audit fees related to other services.
We will continue to monitor developments in this area and await the outcome of the Regulators consultations.
The non-audit services related mainly to assistance on tax advisory In accordance with our policy on audit partner rotation referred and compliance matters and other assurance engagements, to above, Stuart Watson, who was appointed as Group Audit including corporate responsibility reporting.
The level of such fees Partner in 2010, will be due to rotate off the Companys audit increased marginally due to work undertaken to support enhanced after completing the 31 July 2015 audit engagement.
These services were provided within the constraints of the Audit Practices Board Ethical Subject to the continued satisfactory performance of PwC, it is the Standards on Auditing and were assessed on a case-by-case current intention to tender the external audit during the financial year basis so that the best placed adviser was retained.
Internal audit Auditor independence During the year, prior to each of the four scheduled Committee The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure meetings, the Chairman of the Committee met with the Head of that independence and objectivity is not impaired.
These include Internal Audit, who attended each Committee meeting, where restrictions on the types of services which the external Auditor his reports were reviewed and discussed in detail.
The Committee can provide, in line with the APB Ethical Standards on Auditing.
considered the results of the internal audits and the adequacy Details of the services that the external auditors cannot be engaged of managements response to matters raised in them, including to perform are provided on the Wolseley plc website the time taken to resolve any such matters.
In March 2013, the Committee conducted the annual review of In relation to the non-audit services provided by PwC during the the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function, including year, the Committee reviewed and approved managements its terms of reference, its audit plans, its general performance reasons for selecting PwC as the best placed adviser on a and its relationship with the external auditors.
This review was case-by-case basis.
This decision was typically based on the undertaken using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered merit of using PwCs existing knowledge of both the Company Accountants in England and Wales and the Institute of Internal and the Group and its importance in relation to the advice sought Auditors UK.
This added value and saved fees in the process.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Audit Committee continued Whistleblowing and fraud Risk The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the Group-wide Risk management Code of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A copy of the Risk management reports, prepared by the Group Head of Risk Groups Code of Conduct is available on the Wolseley plc website and Compliance, were submitted to the Committee in September www.
The Committee received reports at each 2012 and March 2013.
These reports summarise submissions from Committee meeting providing details of matters reported through all areas of the business which the Executive Committee and senior the Groups international confidential telephone reporting lines and management have reviewed.
They identify the significant risks to secure website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by the Group and highlight the tolerance levels that the Executive an independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated by Committee is prepared to accept.
the relevant operating company and, where appropriate, reported to the Committee, together with details of any corrective action Internal controls taken.
The Committee also received reports at each Committee meeting providing details of fraud losses in each quarter.
During the year the Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting One of the Groups subsidiary companies in France made a series policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk of unauthorised payments over a period of six weeks in the first half management procedures and compliance controls, as well as of the financial year.
The payments were not in compliance with the Companys statements on internal controls, before they were Group policies or with an agreed bank mandate.
The total loss agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
The way in which to the Company was 11 million which was accounted for in the processes of external audit, internal audit and internal controls the period.
The Company is taking all available steps to recover overlap and complement each other was reviewed in May 2013. the lost funds.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk.
They provide reasonable but What are the priorities for 2013 14?
not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Objectives 2013 14 Such systems are necessary to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets and depend on regular evaluation of the Maintain close scrutiny of the Companys management of its extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
Management principal risks and ensure continued improvement of the risk is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal management framework.
control over financial reporting for the Group, including the Prepare for and, if appropriate, implement the regulatory consolidation process, and it does this through the Advanced changes to Audit Committee governance, in particular in relation Control Environment ACE framework.
The Committee received to the tendering of the audit.
regular updates at each meeting on the work undertaken by the ACE team, which is independent of management.
Continue to monitor the effectiveness of the overall assurance provided by Internal Audit, internal controls and risk management The Committee is assured that the Companys systems comply processes and, in particular, review the effectiveness of the with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Companys internal control systems.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
At each meeting, the Committee has indepth discussions about the internal As at the date of this report, the Committee has already begun to controls with the managers responsible for their implementation.
implement a number of these action points.
The Committee can confirm that the Companys systems and their effectiveness have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved, and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Committee is of the view that the Company has a well-designed system of internal control.
The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters to the Board Michael Wareing CMG arising from the Committees review of the way in which the risk on behalf of the Audit Committee management and internal control processes are applied and on The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Wolseley plc any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these processes.
no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
These processes have been in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2013 and have continued to the date of this report.
Full details of how the business implements its risk management and controls on a Group-wide basis are set out in the Risk management and internal control section on pages 42 to 47.
Wolseley plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Nominations Committee The Committee regularly reviews the composition and experience of the Board to ensure that the range of skills, breadth of experience and diversity of the Board are fully considered, and will continue to do so for future appointments.
During the year, the Committee undertook a search for two new Non Executive Directors and we finalised the appointment of Pilar Lpez and Alan Murray, who were appointed as Non Executive Directors on 1 January 2013.
In accordance with our procedure for selecting and recruiting Directors, the Committee retained an external search agency, Zygos, which has no connection to the Company, to assist in the Gareth Davis Chairman process of identifying potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
Members and attendance eligibility The Committee remains focused on monitoring the Companys at meetings held during the year ended progress in developing and implementing its diversity policies: this subject continues to receive significant attention.
The Committee 31 July 2013: has ensured that the skills, experience, potential and overall balance Committee members: Meeting attendance and eligibility : of the Board as well as diversity and gender were considered in G Davis Chairman 3 3 relation to the recent appointment process conducted for our new Non Executive Directors.
T Bamford 3 3 M Clarke 3 3 At the 2013 AGM, I shall be available to respond to any questions shareholders may raise on this report or any of the Committees A Duff 3 3 activities.
M Wareing 3 3 Members who joined during the year: What are the priorities for 2013 14?
1 P Lpez 2 2 Objectives 2013 14 2 A Murray 2 2 Continue to review the balance, experience and skills of 1 Pilar Lpez was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2013. the Board.
Monitor the Companys progress in developing and Set out below is the report of the Nominations Committee for the implementing its diversity policies.
Dear Shareholder What has the Committee done during the year?
An overview of the Committees 2012 13 objectives and how the Committee has progressed against these objectives is set out below: Gareth Davis on behalf of the Nominations Committee 2012 13 objectives Progress Continue the search for at least Achieved.
Two new Non The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Wolseley plc website at www.
one new Non Executive Director.
Executive Directors appointed in January 2013. Review the balance, experience Achieved.
Andrew Duff and skills of the Board, transferred his responsibilities as recognising the departure of the Chairman of the Remuneration Senior Independent Director and Committee and Senior Chairman of the Remuneration Independent Director as part of Committee.
a phased handover prior to his retirement from the Board in November 2013.
The overall balance and skills of the Board are constantly assessed by the Chairman and periodically discussed with the Committee and the Board as a whole.
Monitor the Companys progress Ongoing.
Management will in developing its diversity policies.
report on progress during the course of the year.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Other committees Major Announcements Committee Treasury Committee Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2013 Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2013 J Martin Chairman J Martin Chief Financial Officer Chairman G Davis S Gray Group Financial Controller M Fearon I Meakins Group Chief Executive I Meakins R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel R Shoylekov M Verrier Group Treasurer The Committee has no meetings scheduled, and it was not required Responsibilities to meet during the year.
The Treasury Committee considers treasury policy, including financial structures and investments, tax and treasury strategy, Other ad hoc committees policies and certain transactions on behalf of the Group, reviews As required by the demands of business, the Board may appoint the performance and compliance of the tax and treasury function, ad hoc committees to facilitate the implementation of its decisions within a framework delegated by the Board, and makes or to consider specific matters in further detail between scheduled recommendations to the Board in matters such as overall meetings.
The Board may delegate matters of a substantive nature financing structure and strategy and currency exposure.
If it does so it will generally have already considered the matter in-depth at a full Board meeting What has the Committee done during the year?
but may require further review prior to final approval.
The Committee met periodically during the year and considered During the year, a number of committees were appointed for the a range of treasury-related matters including cash pooling, specific purpose of implementing decisions of the Board in relation counterparty exposure and guarantees, interest rate risk, currency to approved acquisitions, the development of projects or the release denomination of debt, counterparty credit limits, overdraft facilities, of announcements.
a US receivables financing, and eurodenominated cash balances.
Executive Committee Disclosure Committee 1 Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2013 Committee members during the year ended 31 July 2013 I Meakins Chairman J Martin Chief Financial Officer Chairman S Ashmore M Fearon Group Director of Communications and Investor T England Relations P Gardies I Meakins Group Chief Executive O M Jensen R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel J Martin Responsibilities B Morrison F Roach The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public announcements of the Company and, R Shoylekov in particular, the Companys obligations under the Listing and 1 Full details of this Committee can be found on page 68.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
It also assists in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation Responsibilities of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group Any announcements relating to any matters which the Board has strategy and policies and for day-to-day operational management designated as reserved matters, or matters of a substantive or of the business, and monitors business performance.
strategic nature, are dealt with by the Board or by the Major Announcements Committee.
What has the Committee done this year?
What has the Committee done during the year?
Management matters were addressed by the Committee and other committees to whom specific authority has been delegated The Committee met periodically during the year to consider specific to implement Board strategy or policy.
The Committee met ten matters that had been identified as needing consideration.
times during the year and these meetings usually took place prior to Board meetings.
Wolseley plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
