How were doing Direct, Digital, Promotion & Relationship Marketing Geometry Global Pirelli and Bacardi and expanded our relationship with our key global clients like Kimberly-Clark and Report by Steve Harding below GSK.
Lastly, our winning of Unilevers US agency Global chief executive officer ofrecord for shopper marketing is proof-positive themerger fills in a big gap for global clients.
It was a I am most proud of our new companys progress momentous in improving our creative product.
Since launching inaugural year inJune, Geometry Global has won 71 creative and for Geometry effectiveness awards and were looking to continue Global.
We our level of performance going into the 2014 began 2013 as awardsseason.
three separate companies OgilvyAction, Our winning of Unilevers US G2 and agency ofrecord for shopper JWTAction and ended marketing is proof-positive themerger theyear as the fills in a big gap for global clients largest agency network of its kind.
The three With Geometry Globals expanded capability, businesses award-winning work, and industry-defining approach, wereas were in a great position to achieve our ambitions complementary ofbeing the worlds most imaginative, effective to each other as anticipated and our go-to-market andinfluential activation agency network.
strategy emerged naturally from the strengths of each agencybrand.
On our way to becoming the worlds premier global activation agency, we needed to set the foundation for a brand new company and ultimately manage through a challenging transition.
We created a breakthrough offer Precision Activation and both our clients and the worlds leading search consultants agree that were redefining activation with our approach to shopper, digital, promotions, data, relationship marketing and experiential.
Weestablished an operations infrastructure for Toby Hoare left, ournew company, transitioning 80 offices to new Chairman, branding and introducing 3,800 staff to a new way Carl Hartman above, of working.
All of our efforts to embed Precision WPP Global Client Activation in our people are already showing dividends.
Leader, Kimberly-Clark and chief executive Through all the change, we gained some notable officer, Geometry new clients while strengthening existing relationships.
Global North America We landed some impressive brands including Mattel, 84 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
