How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Companys Board refreshment governanceandthe Nomination andGovernance Committee Initiated in 2012, refreshment of the Boards composition and leadership has dominated this Report by Philip Lader committees past years activity.
To this end, Chairman of the Nomination and wereaffirmed our policy that requires all WPP GovernanceCommittee directorsto stand for annual re-election by share owners andestablished a new tenure policy for Nomination and Governance Committee members non-executive directors: Meetings Newly-elected non-executive directors shall Philip Lader chairman 6 notstand for re-election after having served for the 2 Charlene Begley period of their independence under applicable US Esther Dyson 6 and UK governance authority, that presently being Orit Gadiesh 5 the nine-year rule i. e. under current general 1 Roger Agnelli 3 governance policy, a non-executive director will not 1 Ruigang Li 2 stand for re-election at the AGM that follows the 1 Jeffrey Rosen 3 1 completion of nine full years service after the first Hugo Shong 2 1 AGM at which he or she was first elected by share Tim Shriver 3 1 owners: nor will such non-executive directors Sally Susman 3 subsequently stand for election to this Board.
1 Appointed to the committee in June 2013.
Applying this policy to currently-serving non- 2 Appointed to the committee on 19 February 2014. executive directors results in the retirement of long-serving colleagues over the next several years and, this year, of two non-executive directors: Dear share owner Orit Gadiesh, the Chair of Bain & Company, who has served for 10 years as a WPP non-executive Committee responsibilities and how they were director: and discharged in 2013 Esther Dyson, a leading authority on digital communications and an international investor in hroughout 2013, succession planning not web-based businesses, who has served in this only for senior management, but also for capacity for 15 years.
non-executive directors and Board They will not stand for re-election to the Board T performance were the principal focus of the and will be very much missed.
And as I proposed in Nomination and Governance Committees six formal last years Annual Report, I shall retire from the meetings and frequent informal exchanges between Board at the end of this calendar year.
The Board committee members and our fellow directors.
intends to announce my successor as chairman in All non-executive directors were invited to sufficient time to provide an orderly transition.
participate in most of these sessions, with the committees recommendations to the Board Process, criteria and appointments generallyreflecting the consensus of such larger number of opinions.
We then undertook an exhaustive process of considering the skills and experience of an extremely broad range of potential candidates.
Supplementing the many names proposed by then-current Board 124 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report members, the executive recruitment firm, Egon financial experience to the work of the Audit Zehnder International, utilised its consultants Committee and the Nomination and Governance around the globe to identify, evaluate, and screen Committee, as well utilize his in-depth understanding ahighly diverse universe of individuals.
of the Group as senior independent director.
Our criteria focused on diversity in its broadest Colin Day has served on this Board and its sense: geography, gender, career discipline, Compensation and Audit Committees since 2005 professional perspective, and technical skills.
and as chairman of the Audit Committee since June Traditional qualifications, financial competencies, 2013.
He has only been chairman of the Audit media-related, marketing-services and developingCommittee since June 2013, however: and the Board, markets experience, independence, time availability notwithstanding his length-of-service as a director, and the level of commitment were scrutinised, considers him truly independent and has asked him leading to many current directors interviews to continue as chairman of this committee until such ofseveral dozen candidates.
time as his successor is appointed.
From this process, the Board appointed, during To ensure an effective Board transition, both 2013-2014 as the individuals became available, Jeffrey and Colin notwithstanding their prospective thefollowing new non-executive directors whose service for more than nine years are proposed for biographies can be found on pages 114 to 118 : re-election as directors, but will not stand for Roger Agnelli re-election at the 2015 AGM.
Dr Jacques Aigrain With the appointment of the aforementioned Charlene Begley newnon-executive directors and subject to their Dr John Hood AGM election, the composition of our three main Daniela Riccardi committees has also been significantly revised: Nicole Seligman Committee Nomination and Hugo Shong composition Audit Compensation Governance 2014 Committee Committee Committee Sally Susman Philip Lader chair l Roger Agnelli l l l Committee leadership and service Jacques Aigrain l l Charlene Begley l l Under our new non-executive director tenure policy, Colin Day chair l l one of those non-executive directors retiring in the John Hood chair l next few years is WPPs senior independent director, Ruigang Li l l Jeffrey Rosen, who has devoted enormous time and Daniela Riccardi l effort to chairing its Compensation Committee.
The Jeffrey Rosen l l planned succession of this committee chairmanship Nicole Seligman l Hugo Shong l l l from him to Dr John Hood was delayed by the Tim Shriver l l Boards unanimous judgement until the 2014 Annual Sally Susman l General Meeting because of Dr Hoods unavailability Sol Trujillo l l for earlier appointment to the Board, the need for a brief transitional period after such appointment, and the need for major revision of the Groups complex From the Audit Committees enlarged remuneration plans this past year and the preparation membership, a new committee chair is expected of the prospective Executive Remuneration Policy.
toemerge and succeed Colin: and it is likely that the Jeffrey now stands for re-election as a non-executive new Board chairman will replace me as chairman director and would continue to apply his international ofthe Nominations and Governance Committee.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 125 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Board and committee evaluation Sustainability The annual evaluation of the Boards and all Paul Richardson, chairman of the Companys committees effectiveness was conducted, with Sustainability Committee, presented a comprehensive reference to questions utilised in prior years assessment of the Groups sustainability performance interviews of directors, through candid Board and risks to the committee for 2013.
Particularly discussion at two Board meetings and two nonnoteworthy was WPPs CDP score of 95B and our executive directors dinners, as well as consultations inclusion in the CDP FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure with Egon Zehnder International.
That firms Leadership Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability consultants presented thorough evaluations of Index.
WPP continued to help its operating companies theBoards and this committees performance by providing a series of webinars and briefings on and, whileoffering specific recommendations sustainability issues.
We established a WPP privacy forimprovement, concluded that both the Board policy group of senior agency representatives and andthis committee continued to operate effectively added privacy and security to ethics training as well as and had made considerable progress in Board holding a training event on the EU cookies directive.
Observations from these discussions and presentations will be intensely reviewed by this Terms of reference committee in upcoming meetings, with proposals tothe full Board as to improving Board effectiveness.
The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed with the Board annually and most recently Fair, balanced and understandable in July 2013, are on the Companys website at wpp.
During the year, the Board considered the changes tothe UK Corporate Governance Code, especially Chairmans continuing role the requirement for directors to confirm that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken In addition to customary governance, management asawhole, to be fair, balanced and understandable.
oversight and representational duties, I shall be The Audit Committee discussed the appropriate assisting our new colleagues in their familiarisation criteria with members of the Disclosure Committee with this Companys many dimensions, continuing and reviewed the process for compilation and share owner consultations to resolve any outstanding assurance of the reports information.
The Audit compensation and governance issues, and Committee then received an early final draft of the participating in the work of committees.
Until the report for review and comment, as well as a report transition to my successor, I shall lead the Board in from the Disclosure Committee as to the governance itsdetermination and periodic revision of confidential, relating to compilation of the report.
The Board potential emergency leadership plans and ensure subsequently considered the Annual Report and thatthere is ongoing emphasis on management Accounts as a whole and discussed the reports tone, development and CEO succession planning.
balance, and language for compliance with these standards.
The Boards statement on the report isonpage 188.
Philip Lader 16 April 2014 126 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
