How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report Review of the Audit Committee The committee and its members were formally assessed by the chairman of the Company as part ofthe annual evaluation process described on page Report by Colin Day 126 for their technical suitability to be members Chairman of the Audit Committee andalso for its overall effectiveness.
The Board has designated me as the committees financial expert for Audit Committee members Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having Meetings recent andrelevant financial experience for the Paul Spencer chairman until 12 June 2013 4 purposes ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
Colin Day chairman from 12 June 2013 7 The members of the committee have financial and or Sol Trujillo 7 financial services experience as set out in their Jeffrey Rosen 6 biographies onpages 114 to 118.
1 Roger Agnelli 3 1 Jacques Aigrain 3 Committee responsibilities and how they were 2 Charlene Begley 1 1 discharged in 2013 Hugo Shong 3 1 Appointed to the Committee on 13 May 2013.
The main matters we dealt with during 2013 were 2 Appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2013. asfollows: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviewing significant Dear share owner financial reporting judgements: reviewing internal financial control and internal e held seven meetings during the year, audit activities: whichwere attended by the external auditors, assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities the Companys chairman, the Group finance in respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems W director, Bud Morten, the director of and key elements of risk management as they affect internalaudit, the Group chief counseland the the Group: Company Secretary.
reviewing the Group Treasury policy with Preparatory meetings were also held with the particular focus on debtors, funding foreign internal and external auditors as well as members of exchange and cash management and the continued the Companys senior management.
The committee ability of the Group to adopt the going concern received presentations from the heads of internal basisin preparing financial statements: audit, finance, tax, compliance and legal.
The reviewing reports on any material litigation or committee also received reports from the Disclosure regulatory reviews involving Group companies: Committee on financial reports.
The Board received reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions regular reports on all matters of particular strategy, any significant acquisitions, due diligence significance arising at thecommittee meetings.
procedures and integration processes and the debt The committees terms of reference, which are financing by the Group: reviewed with the Board annually and most recently reviewing GroupMs trading model and its risk in December 2013, are on the Companys website assessment processes: atwpp.
reviewing the Groups tax strategy: monitoring the accounting and legal reporting requirements, including all relevant regulations WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 127 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report oftheUK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ volume income and media trading income.
The and the Jersey Financial Services Commission: committee received briefings from Deloitte and overseeing continued compliance with Section management on the appropriateness of the policies 404 of SOX, through regular status reports adopted and the controls in place: submitted by the internal and external auditors: the valuations of non-controlled investments reviewing the Groups reporting systems and which are based on local management forecasts, shared services and IT integration initiatives: recent financing rounds and other supporting reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak information such as industry valuation multiples.
helpline and the actions taken in response to The committee examined the valuations with thosecalls: and management and considered the sample testing of reviewing the Groups initiatives and policies theinvestments performed by Deloitte and agreed ondata privacy and internet security.
that the valuations performed were appropriate: The committee examined whether the annual the accuracy of forecasting the potential future report and accounts for 2013 was fair, balanced and payments due under earnout agreements in respect understandable and provided the information ofacquired businesses.
The committee considered necessary for share owners to assess the Groups the forecasting with management and the testing performance, business model and strategy.
The undertaken by Deloitte and agreed that earnouts process the committee, the Disclosure Committee and have been accounted for on a consistent basis to the Board undertook is outlined in the Nomination previous periods: and Governance Committee report on page 124. the approach taken to calculating fair value adjustments in respect of acquired businesses Financial reporting and significant andspecifically provisions for non-corporate tax, financialjudgements property and legal exposures which the committee considered was appropriate: The management team make key decisions and the valuation of year-end provisions in respect of judgements in the process of applying the Groups working capital.
The committee received briefings on accounting policies.
These key judgements were the approach taken by management in assessing the detailed in reports to the committee in respect of level of exposure across the Group and agreed it was 2013 which were then examined by the committee consistent and appropriate: and discussed with management.
accounting for the judgemental elements of Deloitte also reported to and discussed with remuneration, including, pensions, bonus accruals, thecommittee whether suitable accounting policies severances and share-based payments.
The hadbeen adopted in the financial statements for committee agreed that the assumptions applied theyear ended 2013 and whether management bymanagement are reasonable: hadmade appropriate estimates and judgements.
the judgements made in respect of tax, in Theareas of significant judgement considered by the particular deferred tax assets including their committee and how these were addressed included: recoverability and the level of tax provisioning.
the assessments made for goodwill impairment.
 managements The committee confirmed, based on managements assumptions in both these areas and believe expectations of future performance of certain thecurrent level of provisions is reasonable: and businesses, the level of goodwill impairment the going concern assessment and key forecast chargesrequired in 2013: assumptions.
The committee concur with the judgements made in respect of revenue managements going concern assumptions as set recognition particularly as these relate to media outon page 187.
128 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Directors report External audit Committee membership Deloitte has been WPPs auditor since 2002.
This is my first year as chairman of the committee Thelead partner rotates every five years and the last which has been a year of transition as the committee rotation was in 2010.
In 2013, the effectiveness of now has a majority of new members as part of the the audit process was evaluated through a committee Board refreshment process.
review of the audit planning process and discussions I would like to thank my colleagues on the with key members of the Groups finance function.
committee, the parent company executives and The 2013 evaluations concluded that there was a theexternal advisors for their hard work in 2013. good quality audit process and constructive challenge where necessary to ensure balanced reporting.
The committee held private meetings with the external Colin Day auditors and the committee chair met privately with 16 April 2014 the external auditors before meetings.
The committee continues to be satisfied with the performance of Deloitte and confirmed that Deloitte continues to beobjective and independent.
The committee recommends the reappointment of Deloitte at the AGM on 25 June 2014.
The committee considered the Groups position on its audit services contract following changes to theUK Corporate Governance Code and European Union regulations concerning the audit market.
Inview of the uncertainty regarding the form and impact of these regulations, the committee will recommend a course of action to the Board during 2014 in respect of the tender of the audit contract.
Non-audit fees The committee has established a policy regarding non-audit services that may be provided by Deloitte, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SOX.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if appropriate and if pre-approved by the committee, either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level offees for 2013 is shown in note 3 on page 209.
