How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill Knowlton Strategies With this opportunity comes a responsibility tooffer the best talent and tools anywhere, not Report by Jack Martin below onlyfor interacting with the public but to measure Global chairman and chief executive officer it.
Wehave worked hard to identify, develop and promote this talent, both from within our own ranksand byrecruiting new expertise from outside.
We have invested in vital areas such as digital, aglobal research practice that is second to none, anddeveloped a corporate practice that can turn onadime, be it a global crisis or a merger.
We put apremium on ensuring that we integrate these newtools into our core public relations business.
Wealso have put major emphasis on creating a 21st century marketing communications practice that takes advantage of the new highway to the public, offering accountability and measurement of our work.
As an 80-year-old brand with a rich heritage, We have invested in vital areas Hill Knowlton Strategies has the opportunity to suchas digital, a global research beapart of any conversation about interacting withthe public across the globe.
But, in this age practice that is second to none, and ofdisintermediation and democratization, we earn developed a corporate practice that aseat at the table because of our ability to offer wisdom about the future of communicating with can turn on a dime, be it a global thepublic.
crisis or a merger Almost overnight, relatively speaking, there isanew pathway to the public: the internet.
Now alongwith traditional avenues of communicating, Our commitment to leading the next generation such as television, radio and newspapers, the public of this business, driven by our entrepreneurial spirit, has access to an unlimited amount of information makes this an exciting and promising era for and even more important, many of the traditional Hill Knowlton Strategies.
areas of public interaction, such as public relations, advertising, research, marketing and branding, arealso adapting to this new world order.
At Hill Knowlton Strategies, our approach to this exciting future is called the 5th Seat.
The 5th Seat puts us in the c-suite of our clients, next to the lawyers, accountants, management consultants and bankers.
74 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe integrated marketing, insights and paid media talentacross markets.
To evolve employee skills, Report by Donna Imperato below weunveiled our new learning management system, Chief executive officer withcloud-based, on-demand training using gaming modules to facilitate learning.
2013 was the year that put Cohn & Wolfe on the Clients embraced our evolution, significantly global stage, literally.
Last March, our leadership increasing our integrated marketing work.
It was team took the stage to accept PRWeeks Large also a historic year of new business across practices Agency of the Year and Overall Agency of the Year.
and geographies major wins included: Choice Competing with agencies many times our size, it Hotels, Coca-Cola, Google, Johnson & Johnson, wasCohn & Wolfes success story specifically Mondelz, Nokia and Pfizer.
Existing relationships ourcreative leadership and global expansion that proved powerful, as organic growth drove over 50% captured the judges imaginations.
During 2013, we evolved our offering to Growth was notable in our global healthcare capitalize on new marketplace demands.
We drove practice and our London, Austin, Sweden and global expansion by taking a minority stake in Southeast Asia offices.
Our global specialty leading Middle East network BPG and adding a companies, GCI Health see page 83 and AxiCom, newPhilippines office.
With nine Asia Pacific offices, also performed well with significant new wins and the region has quickly become a key growth driver.
Cohn & Wolfe enhanced our integrated marketing and insights capabilities, becoming thefirst and only PR member of WPPs The Data Clients embraced our evolution, Alliance.
The partnership allows us to drive significantly increasing our integrated engagement more effectively between consumers and brands by integrating deep data, digital strategy and marketing work.
It was also a historic creative and content offerings.
Other new offerings year of new business across practices include Paid Media, Mobile Marketing and Content Marketing.
and geographies Our outstanding people are at the heart of our success and We will continue to leverage our brand marketing three publications heritage and stay one step ahead, investing in the PRWeek, PR News right talent and tools to exceed client needs and and Crains New York deliver an outstanding 2014. recognized Cohn & Wolfe as a Best Place to Work.
We continued to recruit the best leaders to drive our regional offerings and invested in digital, creative, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 75 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs RLM Finsbury HERING SCHUPPENER Report by Roland Rudd below, left Report by Ralf Hering Chairman and Principal partner and chief executive officer Walter Montgomery below, right Chief executive officer HERING SCHUPPENER, Germanys market leader in corporate and financial communications with offices in Dsseldorf, Frankfurt, Berlin, Hamburg and Brussels, works closely with the senior management of more than 150 leading companies in Germany, Europe and beyond on all corporate issues, financial transactions and in mission-critical situations.
In 2013, we advised clients in 30 M&A transactions and in the largest IPO.
High-profile assignments included: the largest investment ever made by a Japanese firm in Germany: CEO transition programs RLM Finsbury, which was created in 2011 from the in the manufacturing, telecom and travel industries: merger of Robinson Lerer & Montgomery and Finsbury, major compliance and governance issues support works extensively with corporations in the Fortune andrestructurings in the manufacturing, financial 500, FTSE 100 and Eurofirst 300, as well as numerous services and automotive sectors: insolvency public and independent companies around the world.
communications programs in the real estate industry: The firms communications professionals bring and strategic corporate brand positioning programs awealth of experience in finance, law, public policy in the manufacturing, automotive and retail industries.
and journalism, as well as the global expertise, We also insight and judgement to help clients make the have a strong greatest impact in their interactions with the media, public affairs financial markets, employees, policy makers and practice that other vital stakeholders.
Services include financial acts on a communications, investor relations, crisis national and communications, issues management, corporate EU level affairs, public policy and regulatory affairs.
regarding 2013 demonstrated the benefits of the continuing regulatory effort to integrate services across the firms global issues, and a offices, including the engagement by Verizon powerful healthcare arm advising the pharmaceutical Communications in connection with its purchase industry on communications policies.
ofVodafones 45% stake in Verizon Wireless, the The consultancy has been consistently on top of largest US deal in history and second largest deal in the mergermarket rankings for M&A transactions global history.
For the year, RLM Finsbury posted now for a decade in volume, and in value since 2007. solid results, with an increase in revenues.
It also advises clients on IPOs and other capital raisings, investor relations, restructurings, and CEO Burson-Marsteller See report on page 57 transitions as well as crisis communications and other special situations in every industry sector.
In the past year, based on independent research, Ogilvy Public Relations See report on page 50 The Holmes Report named the firm again EMEA Best Consultancy to Work For, for the fifth time.
