How we comply Corporate governance: How the Company is governed, including risk management and activities of the Board Statements of compliance UK Corporate Governance Code compliance The Board considers that WPP complied in all material respects throughout 2013 with the provisions of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
Internal control WPP operates a system of internal control, which is maintained andreviewed in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts with the Turnbull Report andhas also complied with the relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 175 How we comply Corporate governance How we comply For ease of reference we have structured this section around the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to share owners for the Groups financial and operational performance.
Responsibility for the development and implementation of Group policy and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board to the Group chief executive and theother executive directors.
The list of matters reserved to the Board can be downloaded from the website wpp.
During 2013, the Board met seven times formally and held 20 committee meetings throughout the year.
Audit Compensation Nomination and Attendance of directors at meetings Board Committee Committee Governance Committee 1 Philip Lader chairman 7 7 7 6 Sir Martin Sorrell 7 Paul Richardson 7 Mark Read 7 4 Roger Agnelli 4 3 3 3 4 Jacques Aigrain 5 3 3 6 Charlene Begley 1 1 Colin Day 7 7 7 Esther Dyson 7 6 6 Orit Gadiesh 5 5 7,8 Ruigang Li 7 2 2 2,3 Bud Morten 3 4 4 2 3 Koichiro Naganuma 3 John Quelch 2 5 Daniela Riccardi 3 2 8 Jeffrey Rosen 7 6 7 3 4 Hugo Shong 5 3 2 2 3 Paul Spencer 3 4 8 Tim Shriver 7 7 3 4 Sally Susman 5 3 7 Sol Trujillo 7 7 3 1 By invitation, the chairman attended all of the Audit Committee meetings.
2 By invitation, Bud Morten attended certain committee meetings.
3 Paul Spencer, Bud Morten, John Quelch and Koichiro Naganuma retired in June 2013.
4 Roger Agnelli, Jacques Aigrain, Hugo Shong and Sally Susman were appointed on 13 May 2013.
5 Daniela Riccardi was appointed on 12 September 2013.
6 Charlene Begley was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2013 and appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee on 17 February 2014.
7 Ruigang Li and Sol Trujillo were appointed to the Compensation Committee in June 2013.
8 Ruigang Li, Jeffrey Rosen and Tim Shriver were appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee in June 2013.
176 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Corporate governance The role of the chairman Groups strategy.
All directors have access to the The Board is chaired by Philip Lader, who chairs the services of the Company Secretary and may take Nomination and Governance Committee and during independent professional advice at the Companys 2013 was a member of the Compensation Committee expense in conducting their duties.
The Company andat the invitation of the Audit Committee chairman, provides insurance cover for its directors and officers.
attended all meetings of that committee.
The chairman provides the leadership of the Board and isthe main Effectiveness point of contact between the Board and the management team.
The chairman represents theBoard The composition of the Board in discussions with share owners, investor bodies, The Board is now composed of 19 directors, with ensures that systems are in place to provide directors atleast five non-executive directors, including the with timely and accurate information, represents the Board chairman, planning to retire within the next Company in extensive external gatherings, and is also several years under a new Board tenure policy.
Three responsible for the Board governance principles.
He has current members are executive directors and 15, led the Board recruitment and appointment process, plusthe chairman, are non-executive directors.
determination and periodic revision of confidential Theindependence of each non-executive director leadership plans for potential emergencies, and the isassessed annually by the Board.
The Board has ongoing emphasis on management development and confirmed that all of the non-executives standing for CEO succession planning.
Ambassador Lader plans re-election at the 2014 AGM continue to demonstrate toretire from the Board at the end of December 2014, the characteristics of independence.
after the Boards announcement of a chairmandesignate and an orderly transition.
Succession: Board and committee membership In 2012, WPP commenced a comprehensive review of The role of the senior independent director the Boards composition and effectiveness, directed by The senior independent director is Jeffrey Rosen who is the Nomination and Governance Committee with the available to share owners and acts as a sounding board assistance of Egon Zehnder International, a prominent for the chairman and as an intermediary forthe other Board recruitment and advisory firm.
Geographic and directors with the chairman when necessary.
The senior gender diversity together with skills and experience in independent directors role includes responsibility for the marketing services, finance and pertinent technologies chairmans appraisal and succession.
Jeffrey Rosen has are among the priorities of our Board succession.
been the senior independent director since April 2010.
As a consequence of this review the composition ofthe Board and the committees has been refreshed.
Non-executive directors Four of the longest serving non-executive directors, The non-executive directors have a diverse range BudMorten, John Quelch, Paul Spencer and Koichiro of skills, experience and backgrounds.
As detailed Naganuma did not stand for re-election at the 2013 intheir biographies on pages 114 to 118, the nonAGM.
Eight new non-executive directors have been executive directors work across the globe in media appointed during the course of 2013 and 2014: and advertising, investment banking and investment Roger Agnelli management, pharmaceuticals, mining, logistics Jacques Aigrain andbioenergy, airlines, FMCG, international Charlene Begley management consulting, private equity and angel Dr John Hood investing, business education, manufacturing, Daniela Riccardi consumer products and retail management, internet Nicole Seligman start-ups, government and non-profit organisations.
Hugo Shong They provide constructive challenge and assistance Sally Susman tothe Group chief executive in developing the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 177 How we comply Corporate governance TheCompensation Committee chairman, Jeffrey tofulfil their duties and obligations asdirectors.
The Rosen, will step down from the committee at the 2014 directors are also frequently advised on regulatory and AGM and subject to his election, will be succeeded by best practice requirements which affect the Groups Dr John Hood.
Esther Dyson and Philip Lader also businesses on a global basis.
At theBoard meeting held stepped down from the Compensation Committee at in Turkey in 2013, the Board received briefings from all the end of December 2013. the heads of the Groups Central & Eastern Europe, Roger Agnelli, Jacques Aigrain, Dr John Hood, Middle East and Africa operations.
Daniela Riccardi, Nicole Seligman and Hugo Shong have joined Colin Day, Sol Trujillo, Tim Shriver and Evaluation Ruigang Li on the Compensation Committee.
WPP undertakes an annual review of the Board, its Colin Day succeeded Paul Spencer as chairman committees and individual directors.
In 2013, the ofthe Audit Committee, and continuing members, annual evaluation was undertaken alongside the Board Sol Trujillo and Jeffrey Rosen, have been joined by recruitment process.
Egon Zehnders consultants Jacques Aigrain, Roger Agnelli, Hugo Shong and rendered candid evaluations of our Boardand Charlene Begley.
From these findings, we Roger Agnelli, Charlene Begley, Tim Shriver, concluded that the Board and its committees had been Jeffrey Rosen, Ruigang Li, Hugo Shong and Sally effective and are prepared for a variety of potential Susman have joined Esther Dyson and Orit Gadiesh macroeconomic, industry, client and personnel on the Nomination and Governance Committee, challenges but must continue toseek additional with PhilipLader as chairman.
The chairman of the waysthat their effectiveness might be enhanced.
Board participates asanex-officio member of all Board committees.
Re-election The directors submit themselves for annual re-election Time commitment at each Annual General Meeting, if they wish to Letters of appointment for non-executive directors continue serving and are considered by the Board do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board tobe eligible.
Directors may be appointed by share attendance and duties but give an indication of the owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on the likely time required.
It is anticipated that the time recommendation of the Nomination and Governance required by directors will fluctuate depending on Committee and must then stand for re-election at the thedemands of the business and other events.
next Annual General Meeting where they may be re-elected by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
Development With only specific exceptions to ensure Board On joining WPP, non-executive directors are given continuity as noted in the Nomination and aninduction which includes one-to-one meetings Governance Committee report, non-executive directors withmanagement and the external auditors, briefings shall not stand for re-election after they have served for on the duties of directors of a Jersey company, the the period of their independence, as determined by Model Code, WPP Code of Conduct and the UK then-applicable UK and US standards: that currently Corporate Governance Code.
The induction also covers being a period of nine years.
the Board committees that adirector will join.
All directors are fully briefed onimportant developments Diversity inthe various business activities whichthe Group WPP recognises the importance of diversity, including carries out worldwide and regularly receive extensive gender, at all levels of the Group as well asthe Board.
information concerning the Groups operations, WPP is committed to increasing diversity across finances, risk factors and its people, enabling them its subsidiaries and supports the development and 178 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Corporate governance promotion of talented individuals, including women.
ofthis system, theBoard can only give reasonable, In2013, women comprised 29% of the WPP Board, not absolute, assurance against material 32% of Board members and executive leaders in the misstatement or loss.
Thesystem of controls is subsidiaries, 47% of senior managers and 54% of designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the total employees.
Following the appointment of risksof failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For Nicole Seligman on 1 January 2014, women now certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates comprise 31% of the WPP Board in line with controls over the inclusion of their financial data but ouraspiration last year to increase the female places reliance upon the systems of internal control representation on the Board to 30% of non-executive operating within our partners infrastructure and directors as part of the Board refreshment process.
theobligations upon partners boards relating to theeffectiveness of theirown systems.
Directors conflicts of interest The principal elements of internal control are The Companys Articles of Association permit describedbelow.
theBoard to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, Control environment or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the The quality and competence of our people, their Company Situational Conflicts.
TheBoard has integrity, ethics and behaviour are all vital to the aformal system in place for directors to declare maintenance of theGroups system of internal control.
Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly by those directors who have no interest in the matter reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a was updated in 2012, sets out the principal Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must obligations of all employees.
Directors and senior act honestly and ingood faith with a view to the best executives throughout the Group are required to sign interests of the Company and they may impose limits this Codeeach year.
The WPP Policy Book which orconditions when giving the authorisation, or wasupdatedin 2011 includes the Code of Business subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Conduct and human resource practices, aswell Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any asguidance on practices in many operational areas.
authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct minutes.
The prescribed procedures have been are investigated by the director of internal audit, followed in deciding whether, and on what terms, headof compliance and the Group chief counsel.
toauthorise Situational Conflicts and the Board In2013 WPP issued the Data Code of Conduct believes that the systems it has in place for reporting andupdated the Supplier Code of Conduct.
and considering Situational Conflicts continue The Group has an  tooperate effectively.
helpline, Right to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel unable to raise locally.
Accountability Anumber of issues have been raised during 2013 through 54 calls to this helpline, all of which have Internal control been followed through and investigated where The Board which receives advice from the Audit appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
Committee has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and risk management in the Risk assessment Group and has reviewed the effectiveness of the Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations system during the year and up to the date of this throughout the world is given the highest priority by report.
In the context of the scope and complexity the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 179 How we comply Corporate governance the chairman of the Audit Committee and the Board, goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and as it is essential to the creation and protection of share therequirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under owner value and the development of the careers of theSecurities Exchange Act 1934. ourpeople.
The Board realises that WPP is a communication services company and its ongoing Control activities and monitoring prosperity depends on being able to continue to Policies and procedures for all operating companies provide aquality serviceto its existing and potential are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy clients in a creative, efficient and economic way.
Book, internal control bulletins and accounting Identification, management and monitoring of guidelines.
The application of these policies and sustainability risks including social, environmental procedures is monitored within the individual and ethical risks is fully integrated into the Groups businesses and by the Companys director of risk management processes.
internalaudit and the Group chief counsel.
At each Board meeting, the Group chief Operating companies are required to maintain executivepresents a Brand Check review of each of and update documentation of their internal controls the business operations, including an assessment of and processes.
This documentation incorporates an the risk in each business, providing feedback on the analysis ofbusiness risks, detailed control activities business risks and details of any change intherisk and monitoring, together with controls over security profile since the last Board meeting.
of data and the provision of timely and reliable The Brand Check covers such issues as: information to management.
IT and financial the possibility of winning or losing major business controls are also included.
e. g. as a result of a change of senior management at The internal audit department was responsible a major client : forreviews and testing of the documentation and the the addition or loss of a key executive of the Group: relevant controls for a majority of the Group during introduction of new legislation in an 2013, the results of which were reported to the importantmarket: AuditCommittee.
sustainability, including risks relating to marketing ethics, privacy and employment: Financial reporting political instability in an important market: and Each operating company annually updates a threechanges in accounting or corporate year strategic plan which incorporates financial governancepractice.
Theseare reviewed by the parent Each operating group undertakes monthly and companys management and are agreed with the quarterly procedures and day-to-day management chief executive of the relevant operating company.
activities to review their operations and business The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the risks.
These are formally communicated to the development of operating company budgets which Group chief executive, other executive directors build uptheGroups budget.
During the final quarter andsenior executives in monthly reports and of each financial year, operating companies prepare quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
detailed budgets for the following year for review by Paul Richardson provides a formal annual the parent company.
TheGroups budget is reviewed assessment of sustainability risks and performance bythe Board before being adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported monthly The Board is firmly of the opinion that the andare reviewed locally, regionally and globally monitoring of risk is strongly embedded in the bythe business groups and by Group management culture of the Company and of the operating on a consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
companies, in a manner which the Board considers The results arecompared to budget and the previous 180 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we comply Corporate governance year, with full-year forecasts prepared and updated Companys current and potential share owners, quarterly throughout theyear.
The Company reports thisprogram includes regular visits to investors, to share owners four times ayear.
particularly by the Group chief executive, the Group At each year-end, all operating companies supply finance director, the deputy Group finance director their full-year financial results with such additional and the head of investor relations, in the UK, information as is appropriate.
This information is Continental Europe and the major financial centres consolidated to allow the Group to present the in North America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin necessary disclosures for International Financial America.
The Companys non-executive chairman Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the isavailable to meet with investors and regularly European Union.
consults with investors governance representatives The Disclosure Committee gives further and advisory bodies.
The Company provides a assurance that publicly-released information is preliminary announcement, an interim management freefrom material omission or misstatement.
statement at the end of the first and third quarters which includes a trading update, an interim report Remuneration athalf year and a trading update and presentation atthe Annual General Meeting.
The level and components of remuneration The Company ensures that it has a proper Non-executive directors do not participate in the dialogue with share owners and their representative Companys pension, share option or other incentive bodies through executive and non-executive directors plans.
in relation to remuneration and corporate governance The Board considers that the non-executive matters.
In 2013 and 2014, the chairman and senior directors remuneration conforms with the independent director held extensive rounds of requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
discussions with share owners and advisory groups The fees payable to non-executive directors regarding senior executive compensation, and CEO represent compensation in connection with Board and and Board succession planning.
The chairman and Board committee meetings and where appropriate for senior independent director provide thorough devoting additional time and expertise for the benefit feedback to the Board on issues raised with them of the Group in a wider capacity.
Details of directors remuneration and service WPPs website, wpp.
com, provides current contracts form part of the report of the Compensation andhistorical financial information, including Committee which commences on page 130. trading statements, news releases and presentations and the Companys statement of its corporate Relations with share owners governance practices.
Dialogue with share owners The Annual General Meeting The relationship with share owners, potential share The 2014 AGM will be held on Wednesday 25 June owners and investment analysts is given high priority 2014 at 12 noon at The Shard, London.
notice convening the meeting is distributed to share The Company has a well-developed and owners and will be published on WPPs website, continuous program to address the needs of share wpp.
All resolutions for which notice hasbeen owners, investment institutions and analysts for given will be decided on a poll.
aregular flow of information about the Company, itsstrategy, performance and competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 181
