How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy The Compensation Committee presents the The report that follows is split into a number Executive Remuneration Policy, which will be put of sections, which in summary are as follows: toshare owners for approval at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 4.
This policy is intended to Details of the contextual information comply with the UK Companies Act 2006 despite that the committee considers when setting, thefact WPP plc is a Jersey incorporated company reviewing and implementing the directors and therefore not subject to that legislation or the pay policy Pages 134 and 135 associated regulations.
The policy will take effect immediately following the AGM and is consistent An Executive Remuneration Policy table with the arrangements in place from the start of for the executive directors Pages 135 to 141 the2014 financial year.
It is the intention of the committee that this policy will be in effect for three A summary of other executive director policies years from the date of approval and subject to that relate to compensation Pages 143 to 147 periodic review during its operation to ensure it continues to align with the Companys mission An Executive Remuneration Policy table for the statement and business objectives.
chairman and non-executive directors Page 147 A summary of other non-executive director policies that relate to compensation Page 148 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 133 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy WPPs compensation philosophy Our mission statement and our six business objectives shape our compensation philosophy.
Broadly, our Executive Remuneration Policy is determined by three guiding principles: performance driven reward: competitiveness: and alignment with share owner interests.
Specifically, our six business objectives as set out on page 37 are reflected in the design of our compensation plans as set out below: WPPs six business objectives Alignment with compensation structure Continue to improve operating margins on revenue and Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive and gross margin net sales Group finance director 1 Increase flexibility in the cost structure Short-term incentive measure for the Group finance director 2 Use free cash flow to enhance share owner value and TSR, EPS growth and average ROE are long-term incentive improve return on capital measures for the executive directors 3 Continue to develop the value added by the parent company Short-term incentive measures parent company-led efficiency projects for the Group finance director 4 Emphasise revenue growth more as margins improve Short-term incentive measures for the Group chief executive and Group finance director Group and Chief executive, WPP Digital 5 Digital Improve still further the creative capabilities and reputation Short-term incentive measure for the Group chief executive of all our businesses 6 The Executive Remuneration Policy is designed to attract and retain the best-in-class talent.
The policy looks to incentivise the directors to develop the skills of the Groups employees in order to consistently exceedour clients expectations.
The policys objective is to drive and reward sustainable and exceptional performance, thereby producing long-term value for share owners.
In applying this policy, the committee takes into account the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, which in turn are informed by general market conditions and internal factors such as the performance of the Group or relevant business unit.
Considerations taken into account when setting our Executive Remuneration Policy Employment conditions at WPP When reviewing changes to the compensation levels for the directors, the committee considers any changes in light of the increases awarded across the Group over a relevant period of time, in conjunction with the other factors set out in the policy table.
The committee did not consult employees when drawing up this Executive Remuneration Policy.
134 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Share owner views WPP continues to engage openly with share owners and institutional investors to discuss matters relating to compensation.
The feedback received during these conversations is valuable and is among the factors that inform the decisions made by the committee.
During 2013, the committee consulted with share owners on the design of the EPSP.
The selection of performance measures took account of the feedback received as detailed on page 130.
More generally, formal and informal share owner feedback has been used by the committee when drafting this Executive Remuneration Policy.
Glossary The following are acronyms used throughout the policy: Acronym Definition DEPs Dividend Equivalent Payments DSUs Deferred Stock Units EPSP Executive Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan introduced in 2013 ESA Executive Share Award the part of the STIP that is deferred into shares ExSOP Executive Stock Option Plan Good Leaver Broadly, when an individual is dismissed other than for cause the particular meaning applicable to each share plan can be found in the relevant rules LEAP Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan long-term incentive plan used to grant awards until the end of 2012 RSP Restricted Stock Plan STIP Short-term Incentive Plan the annual incentive plan comprising a cash bonus and an ESA Executive Remuneration Policy table executive directors The following table sets out details of the on-going compensation elements for WPPs executive directors.
Component and Purpose Operation Performance Maximum Annual Opportunity Fixed elements of compensation Base salary and fees Base salary and fee levels are reviewed Company and personal performance Under normal To maintain package every two years or following a significant will be taken into account during the circumstances base salary competitiveness and change in the scope of a role.
and fees will increase by reflect skills and no more than the local Levels are determined by taking experience.
rate of inflation over the anumber of relevant factors into period since last review.
account including individual and business performance, level of In the event of a promotion experience, scope of responsibility, or a significant change compensation practices across the inthe scope of a role, Group and the competitiveness of orchanges in sector totalcompensation against both our competitive pay or competitors and companies of a similar theneed to counter a size and complexity.
competitive external offer, the committee may exceed this limit.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 135 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Performance Maximum Annual Opportunity Short-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 140 and 141 Cash bonus, Executive Overview 70% subject to financial performance, Group chief executive: Share Awards ESA The committee may invite executives either at a Group and or divisional 435% of base salary and To drive the toparticipate in the STIP under which leveldepending on the role.
achievement of business abonus can be made subject to 30% subject to personal objectives Other executive directors: priorities for the performance measured over the linked to the strategy of WPP or the 300% of base salary and financial year and to financial year.
Bonus opportunity is relevant business area.
motivate, retain and determined as a percentage of salary reward executives over and fees.
The committee will use its judgement The value of any accrued the medium term, while inassessing performance relative dividends will vary Performance measures and targets are maximising alignment totargets and expectations depending on the size of reviewed and set annually to ensure with share owner communicated at the start of the year the ESA awarded, continuing strategic alignment.
and will consider unforeseen factors dividends declared and Achievement levels are determined that may have impacted performance share price over the following year-end by the committee, during the period.
based on performance against targets.
Vesting schedule Executive directors bonuses are The following table sets out the level delivered in the form of a cash award ofbonus payable for threshold and and a deferred share award ESA, the target performance as a percentage latter constituting at least 50% of the ofmaximum.
Vesting operates on a total bonus achieved.
The ESA will vest straight-line basis between these points.
after a minimum of two years subject tocontinued employment, together Target as percentage withadditional shares in respect of Threshold of maximum accrued dividends.
Sir Martin Judgement Sorrell 0% 50% The committee will use its judgement to Other set the performance measures and executive targets annually.
directors 0% 67% Malus provisions ESA The committee has the ability to reduce any unvested ESA in certain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performance-related remuneration.
136 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Performance Maximum Annual Opportunity Long-term incentives details of how performance measures and targets are set are included in the notes to this table on pages 140 and 141 Executive Performance Overview One-third relative TSR Conditional awards: Share Plan EPSP Executives may receive an annual One-third headline EPS growth Plan maximum: 9.75 times To incentivise longconditional award expressed as a One-third average ROE base salary and fees.
termperformance percentage of base salary and fees.
All measures are assessed andto focus on Executives may also receive an award Group chief executive: independently of each other.
long-term retention in respect of the number of reinvested 9.75times base salary andstrategic priorities, dividends proportionate to the amount TSR is measured on a marketandfees.
while maximising of the award vesting, the dividends capitalisation weighted basis against a alignment with share declared during the performance Other directors: four times peer group of business competitors that owner interests.
period and the share price at the time base salary and fees.
are selected according to size and the dividend is declared.
This peer group is reviewed The value of accrued vest subject to performance, measured annually at the start of each cycle to dividends will vary over a period of five consecutive ensure it remains robust, appropriate depending on the level financial years.
and relevant in light of WPPs business ofvesting, dividends mix.
Half of the TSR element is In respect of merger and acquisition declared and share measured on a local currency basis, activity within the peer group, the priceover the half on a common currency basis.
committee has an established and performance period.
operated policy that TSR outcomes EPS is defined as WPPs headline, fully should not be impacted by the diluted, earnings per share.
The EPS speculation or actuality of takeovers of performance is calculated by taking the peer group companies including WPP.
aggregate EPS over the performance This policy includes a minimum listing period and calculating the compound requirement, an approach for the annual growth from the financial year reinvestment of proceeds from shares preceding the start of the period.
ofcompanies that delist during the performance period and parameters ROE is calculated as fully diluted EPS forcompanies subject to bid divided by the average balance sheet speculation.
Details of how this policy per share value of share owners equity isimplemented will be disclosed each during the year.
year in the relevant Annual Report.
Vesting schedule Discretions Awards will vest on a straight-line basis In accordance with the EPSP rules that from 20% for threshold performance and were approved by share owners at the 100% for maximum performance.
2013 AGM, if the committee considers that there has been an exceptional event or that there have been exceptional circumstances during a performance period that have made itmaterially easier or harder for the Company to achieve a performance measure, the committee may adjust theextent to which an award vests to mitigate the effect of the exceptional event or circumstances.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduceany unvested EPSP award in certain situations, including when fraudor a material misstatement has affected thelevel of any performancerelated remuneration.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 137 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Performance Maximum Annual Opportunity Long-term incentives legacy plans with unvested awards Leadership Equity Overview 100% relative TSR measured on a The following maximum Acquisition Plan III Executives were invited to participate  weighted, levels applied at the LEAP III inthe plan annually by the committee.
No further To incentivise longIn order to participate, individuals must awards can be granted Vesting schedule termperformance have committed to hold an investment under LEAP III, and The following table sets out the level andto focus on level in WPP shares which is determined nonehave been made ofaward that will vest for threshold long-term retention by the committee, subject to an overall since 2012. andtarget performance as a andstrategic priorities, maximum, and must be held for the percentage of maximum.
Investment: one times while maximising fullfive-year performance period.
anexecutive directors alignment with share Investment levels were determined Threshold Maximum total target earnings owner interests.
bythe committee, subject to an overall All executive basesalary and fees maximum.
A final number of matching directors 30% 100% plustarget bonus.
shares will be awarded, proportionate to the investment, dependent on the To achieve threshold vesting WPP must Award: Five times an performance of WPP.
Executives may outperform at least 50% of the marketexecutive directors also receive an award in respect of cap weighted peer group: to achieve investment.
thenumber of reinvested dividends maximum vesting WPP must proportionate to the amount of the The value of accrued outperform at least 90% of the marketaward vesting, the dividends declared dividends will vary cap weighted peer group.
during the performance period and depending on the level theshare price at the time the ofvesting, dividends dividendis declared.
The Plan was declared and share closed to thegrant of new awards priceover the investment at31December 2012. and performance period.
Discretions Following the end of the performance period, the committee undertakes a fairness review to determine whether any exceptional events have impacted the outcome and that the resulting match is in line with financial performance relative to the comparator group and the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Merger and acquisition activity will be treated in accordance with the policy set out under the EPSP above.
Malus provisions The committee has the ability to reduceany unvested LEAP III award incertain situations, including when fraud or a material misstatement has affected the level of any performancerelated remuneration.
138 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Component and Purpose Operation Performance Maximum Annual Opportunity Other items in the nature of compensation Dividend Equivalent The Company has previously received No longer subject to a performance The value of any accrued Payments DEPs on share owner approval to allow Sir requirement as this was assessed at dividends will vary the DSUs Martin Sorrell to defer receipt of the thepoint of vesting in 1999. depending on the To ensure that Sir Martin DSUs.
The Company makes a cash dividends declared during Sorrell receives an payment to Sir Martin Sorrell of an the deferral period.
amount equal to the amount equal to the dividends that dividends that would would have been due on the shares be payable if he had comprising the DSUs.
taken receipt of and retained the shares underlying the DSUs.
Benefits The following benefits are payable Not applicable.
Set at a level that the To enable the executives inrelation to travel and the dual committee feels is required to undertake their role headquarter split between the UK and in order for the executive by ensuring their the US to some all of the executive to carry out their role.
The provision of these benefits maximum payable will reflects external competitive practice, not significantly exceed the complex nature of the Group and the payments made the significant amount of time spent in2013, although the travelling by the executives.
committee may pay more than this if the cost of The typical benefits that executive providing the same directors receive may include a car benefits increases, or if and or car allowance plus the use of theexecutive relocates.
adriver as required: medical, life and disability insurance: accommodation allowance in lieu of hotel expenses: tax and legal advice: home office support: club memberships deemed necessary for the role: and spousal travel.
Other benefits, such as those linked to the relocation of an executive, may be provided depending on the prevailing circumstances.
Pension Pension is provided by way of Not applicable.
Group chief executive: 40% To enable provision contribution to a defined contribution of base salary and fees.
forpersonal arrangement, or a cash allowance, Other executive directors: anddependant determined as a percentage of base 30% of base salary retirementbenefits.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 139 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Notes to the policy table arebased upon the annual business priorities.
Thecommittee is of the view that the targets for theSTIP are commercially sensitive and it would Plan rules bedetrimental to the Company to disclose them inadvance of or during the relevant performance Copies of the various plan rules are available for period.
The committee will disclose those targets at inspection at the Companys registered office and the end of the relevant performance period in that head office.
The Executive Remuneration Policy table years Annual Report, if those targets are no longer provides a summary of the key provisions relating commercially sensitive.
The committee has the authority to ensure that any awards being granted, EPSP vested or lapsed are treated in accordance with the Operational targets under the EPSP are set taking plan rules which are more extensive than the into account a combination of factors, but primarily summary set out in the table.
internal forecasts, analysts expectations albeit, theperiod over which analysts forecast is generally Selection of performance measures shorter than the five-year performance period andhistorical performance relative to budgets.
STIP Relative TSR targets are set to ensure they are Performance measures are selected by the committee more stretching than UK norms and require outon the basis of their alignment to Group strategy and performance of our peers at median before any are the key measures to oversee the operation of the reward is triggered.
Measures are reviewed annually by the committee taking into account business performance Cascade to WPP Group pay policy and priorities.
As well as setting the policy for the executive EPSP directors, the Compensation Committee is also EPS growth is a measure that is important for both responsible for reviewing the policy for the most management and our share owners, capturing senior people at WPP outside the Board.
growth in revenue and earnings.
ROE is similarly Compensation packages for these individuals are important, and provides a positive counterbalance normally reviewed every 18-24 months.
As with the and risk management mechanism through the focus Executive Remuneration Policy, the WPP Group pay on both growth and capital efficiencies.
With the policy ensures a clear and direct link between the inclusion of relative TSR, the plan also takes account performance of the Group or relevant operating of share owner views of how WPP has performed company and compensation.
Substantial use of relative to the companies in the peer group.
performance-driven compensation not only ensures the continued alignment of the interests of share Calibration of performance targets owners and senior individuals within the Group, but also enables the Group to attract, retain and motivate STIP the talented people upon whom our success depends.
The performance targets for the STIP are set to WPP is committed to encouraging strong incentivise year-on-year growth and to reward performance through a reward system that aligns strong, sustainable performance.
Strategic targets managements interests with those of share owners.
140 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy From a compensation perspective, this is encouraged All-employee plan in a number of ways: The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee senior executives participate in the same longplan that makes annual grants of stock options to term incentive plan as the executive directors which employees with two years of service who work in is designed to incentivise growth, capital efficiency wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Executive directors and and share price appreciation: and management in receipt of other share awards are share ownership is encouraged for the WPP ineligible to participate in this plan.
Leaders approximately the top 240 executives, allofwhom have stretching ownership goals.
Across the workforce more broadly, many employees participate in bonus and commission plans based on the performance of their employing company.
In addition, where locally competitive, employees are provided with company-sponsored pension plans and life assurance plans and a range ofother benefits.
In addition to these compensation elements, the Company also uses share-based compensation across the workforce to incentivise, retain and recruit talent which encourages a strong ownership culture among employees.
The main share plans are described below.
Restricted Stock Plan The RSP is used to satisfy awards under the shortterm incentive plans including ESAs as well as togrant awards to management under the WPP Leaders, Partners and High Potential program.
Intheprogram, awards are made to participants thatvest three years after grant, provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Executive directors are eligible to receive ESAs under the RSP but ineligible to participate in any other aspect of the management share award program.
Executive Stock Option Plan The ExSOP is used to make special grants of options in order to attract or retain key talent.
Awards are made infrequently and executive directors are ineligible to participate, other than in a recruitment situation see page 144.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 141 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy How do these pay policies affect potential compensation packages?
These graphs seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance.
The graphs are reflective of the current pay policy as summarised in the Executive Remuneration Policy table set out on pages 135 to 141.
Sir Martin Sorrell 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 3,061 Minimum 39% 32% 29% On-plan 7,802 On-plan 16% 26% 58% Maximum 19,264 Maximum 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Paul Richardson 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 1,022 Minimum 34% 47% 19% On-plan 2,993 On-plan 17% 36% 47% Maximum 5,950 Maximum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Mark Read 000 Fixed and variable pay mix 100% Minimum 517 Minimum 40% 46% 14% On-plan 1,282 On-plan 22% 39% 39% Maximum 2,277 Maximum 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Fixed Short-term incentives Long-term incentives 142 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy The graphs are informed by three performance scenarios and these, along with the assumptions used, are summarised below.
Fixed elements Consists of base salary and fees, benefits including DEPs and pension Base salary and fees reflect current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 Benefits and DEPs are consistent with the single figure table for FY2013 Pension reflects current levels which are unchanged from FY2013 000 Base salary & fees Benefits inc. DEPs Pension Total fixed Sir Martin Sorrell 1,150 1,451 40% 3,061 Paul Richardson 704 107 30% 1,022 Mark Read 440 11 15% 517 Short-term On-plan scenario assumes target bonus is paid incentives Maximum scenario assumes the full bonus is paid % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 217.5% 435% Paul Richardson 0% 200% 300% Mark Read 0% 134% 200% Long-term On-plan scenario assumes threshold vesting of an award at the current policy level incentives Maximum scenario assumes full vesting of an award at the current policy level % of salary and fees Below threshold On-plan Maximum Sir Martin Sorrell 0% 195% 974% Paul Richardson 0% 80% 400% Mark Read 0% 40% 200% Other executive director policies exercised at any time until November 2017.
The USawards will vest on the earlier of the end of Sir Martins employment with the Company, a change Legacy share awards and obligations incontrol of the Company and 30 November 2017.
Additional shares will continue to accrue in respect Under the Executive Remuneration Policy, of dividends paid up to the point of exercise UK outstanding awards under LEAP III, the long-term orvesting US.
incentive plan that pre-dated the EPSP, and Sir The Company has also previously received share Martin Sorrells deferred awards will be paid in owner approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer accordance with the terms agreed at the time and set receipt of the UK and the US Deferred Stock Units out in previous Compensation Committee reports.
These are the awards The key terms of Sir Martins deferred awards are that originally vested in 1999, having been granted summarised below.
in1995 under the Capital Investment Plan.
The UK DSU is an option that can be exercised at any time Deferred awards Sir Martin Sorrell only until November 2017.
The US DSU will vest on the earlier of the end of Sir Martins employment with The Company has previously received share owner the Company, a change in control of the Company approval to allow Sir Martin Sorrell to defer receipt and 30 November 2017.
In accordance with share of his UK and US 2004, 2005 and 2007 LEAP owner approval, Sir Martin Sorrell receives cash awards and the UK part of his 2006 and 2009 LEAP dividend equivalent payments DEPs in respect awards.
The UK awards are options that can be ofthese deferred awards as noted in the policy table.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 143 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Share ownership guidelines may result in an exceptional rate of annualised increase in excess of that set out in the policy table.
With effect from 2013, executive directors and other Other elements of fixed pay will be set in members of the senior management team are subject accordance with the policy table, and a new to share ownership guidelines.
The implementation appointment may require the committee to rely of these guidelines seeks to reinforce the WPP onthe authorised discretion as set out on page 139 principle of alignment of managements interests to make payments related to relocation, for example, with those of share owners.
in order to facilitate the appointment.
The following levels of ownership are required tobe achieved by the executive directors: Ongoing variable compensation The committee will seek to pay only that level of % of base salary & fees reward necessary to recruit the exceptional talent Group chief executive 600% needed to lead such a complex global group.
The Group finance director 300% actual level of incentive offered will be dependent Chief executive, WPP Digital and minimum for any other new onthe role and existing package of the candidate.
executive appointed to the Board 200% The aggregate maximum face value for annual shortand long-term variable compensation will Executive directors will be permitted a period be10 times base salary and fees, which is materially ofseven years from the date of their appointment lower than the current Group chief executive toachieve the guideline level.
The committee retains the discretion In the event that an executive director fails to to make awards on recruitment, within the policy achieve the required levels of share ownership, the limits, to provide an immediate alignment of interest committee will decide what remedial action or penalty with the interests of share owners.
This may involve a reduction in future share awards or requiring the director to purchase Buy-out awards shares in the market to meet the ownership guidelines.
The committee may consider buying-out remuneration entitlements that the individual has had to forfeit by Appointments to the Board accepting the appointment.
The structure and value ofthe awards will be informed by the structure and This section sets out details with respect to the value of those entitlements being forfeited, and the appointment of a new executive director to the performance targets, time horizon and vehicle will be Boardof WPP, whether it is an external or set in an appropriate manner at the discretion of the internalappointment.
The intention of the committee is that any award will take the form of WPP shares and will be Fixed compensation subject to performance as far as possible.
Base salary and fees will be set taking into account An announcement of the directors appointment, arange of factors including the profile and prior detailing the incumbents compensation will be made experience of the candidate, internal relativities, cost on a timely basis through a regulatory information and external market data.
If base salary and fees are service and posted on the Companys website.
set at a lower initial level contingent on individual performance, the committee retains the discretion to Service contracts realign the base salary and fees over a phased period The following terms will apply for any new executive of one to three years following appointment, which role appointed to the Board in the future.
144 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Executives will normally be appointed on a notice Loss of office provisions period of up to 12 months, although the committee retains the discretion to appoint an external Fixed compensation elements candidate on a notice period of up to 24 months As noted above, the service contracts of Messrs reducing on a rolling basis to 12 months such that Richardson and Read provide for notice to be given after 12 months service the notice period would on termination.
The fixed compensation elements of have reverted to the standard 12 months.
their contracts will continue to be paid in respect of At the committees discretion, any payment in any notice period.
There are no provisions relating to lieuof notice will be restricted to base salary, fees, payment in lieu of notice.
If an executive director is benefits and pension.
placed on garden leave, the committee retains the On termination there will be no entitlements discretion to settle benefits in the form of cash.
The when classified as a bad leaver defined within the executive directors are entitled to compensation for incentive plans.
Otherwise base salary, fees, benefits any accrued and unused holiday although, to the and pension allowance are payable as per the notice extent it is possible and in share owner interests, the period and the committee will have the power to committee will encourage executive directors to use make phased payments that would be reduced or their leave entitlements prior to the end of their stopped if alternative employment is taken up.
Except in respect of any remaining notice Terms specific to internal appointments period, no aspect of any executive directors fixed The committee can honour any pre-existing compensation is payable on termination of commitments if an internal candidate is appointed employment.
Sir Martin Sorrells service contract tothe Board.
contains an indemnity, subject to certain conditions relating to previously deferred awards, from WPP in Service contracts respect of any US tax which is charged under section 280G as a result of a termination linked to a change The Companys policy on executive directors service in control of WPP.
Further details are on page 146. contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end date.
Shortand long-term compensation elements The effective dates and notice periods under the If the executive director is dismissed for cause current executive directors service contracts are thereisnot an entitlement to a STIP award, and any summarised below: unvested share-based awards will lapse.
Otherwise, the table on page 146 summarises the relevant Effective from Notice period provisions from the directors service contracts cash Sir Martin Sorrell 19 November 2008 At will bonus and the plan rules RSP, EPSP and LEAP III Paul Richardson 19 November 2008 12 months which apply in other leaver scenarios.
As noted on Mark Read 19 November 2008 6 months page 140, the committee has the authority to ensure Sir Martin Sorrells service contract may be that any awards that vest or lapse are treated in terminated by either the Company or Sir Martin accordance with the plan rules which are more without any notice, and without any payment in extensive than the summary set out in the table lieuof notice.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and head office.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 145 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Cash bonus The executive directors are entitled to receive their bonus for any particular year provided they are employed on the last date of the performance period, except in the case of Mark Read where he gives notice of termination or is dismissed for cause before the payment date.
ESA Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, unvested awards will be reduced on a time pro-rata basis and paid on the vesting date.
EPSP The award will lapse if the executive leaves during the first year of a performance period.
Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
Awards will be paid on the normal date.
In exceptional circumstances, the Compensation Committee may determine that an award will vest on a different basis.
Generally, in the event of death, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of death.
However, the committee retains the discretion to deal with an award due to a deceased executive on any other basis that it considers appropriate.
Awards will vest immediately on a change-of-control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless it isagreed by the committee and the relevant executive director that the outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent new awards.
LEAP III Awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
In the event of death or serious illness, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of cessation of employment.
Awards will vest immediately on a change in control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless thecommittee decides that awards are to be exchanged for equivalent new awards.
In the event of a merger, the committee can require participants to release any outstanding award in consideration of the grant of an equivalent award by the newly formed entity.
Other pre-existing terms that apply to Sir Martin Sorrell Sir Martin Sorrells deferred LEAP awards and his DSUs as set out on page 143 will be paid out unconditionally on termination of employment.
The performance requirements in respect of these awards have already been met, the awards have vested and are therefore no longer subject to any leaver provisions.
In the event any payments due to Sir Martin would be treated as deferred compensation in accordance with US legislation and subject to section 409A requirements, those payments will be delayed.
If those payments are delayed, an amount in respect of interest as a result of the delay will be due from the Company to Sir Martin.
In the event of a change of control of WPP, the Company has agreed to indemnify Sir Martin, with the prior approval of share owners, with respect to any related personal US tax liability under the provisions of section 280G.
This indemnity is subject to certain limitations that exempt the Company from liability for any tax related to the share owner approved deferrals of certain awards.
Based on the most recent review by the committee in December 2013 of the potential impact of this clause, it is unlikely that any 280G payment would be due from the Company based on an analysis, using standard assumptions, that was reviewed by independent counsel.
Other committee discretions not set out above Leaver status: the committee has the discretion to determine an executives leaver classification in light ofthe guidance set out within the relevant plan rules, except with respect to Sir Martin Sorrell.
Unless Sir Martin Sorrell is terminated for cause, he will be treated as having retired on leaving the Company and therefore be treated in accordance with the plan rules as a Good Leaver.
Compromise agreements: the committee is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives, informed by the default position set out above.
146 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy External appointments Executive directors are permitted to serve as non-executives on the boards of other organisations.
If the Company is a share owner in that organisation, non-executive fees for those roles are waived.
However, if the Company is not a share owner in that organisation, any non-executive fees can be retained by the office holder.
Executive Remuneration Policy table chairman and non-executive directors The following table sets out details of the on-going compensation elements for WPPs chairman and nonexecutive directors.
No element of pay is performance-linked.
Component and Purpose Operation Maximum Annual Opportunity Base fees Fees are reviewed at least every two years and take into account the skills, An overall cap on all To reflect the skills and experience and time required to undertake the role, as well as fee levels in non-executive fees, experience and time similarly-sized UK companies.
excluding consultancy fees required to undertake will apply consistent with The chairman and non-executive directors receive a base fee in connection with the role.
the prevailing and share their appointment to the Board.
owner approved limit in the Articles of Association which, subject to share owner approval at the AGM, will be 3m from June 2014.
Additional fees Non-executive directors are eligible to receive additional fees in respect of An overall cap on all To reflect the additional servingas: non-executive fees, time required in any Senior independent director excluding consultancy fees additional duties for Chairman of a Board Committee will apply consistent with theCompany.
Member of a Board Committee the prevailing and share Consultancy fees in respect of other work that falls outside the remit of their role owner approved limit in for the Company.
the Articles of Association which, subject to share owner approval at the AGM, will be 3m from June 2014.
Consultancy fees will be set on a discretionary basis, taking account of the nature of the role and time required.
Benefits and The Company will reimburse the chairman and non-executive directors for all Benefits and allowances allowances reasonable and properly documented expenses incurred in performing their for the chairman will be To enable the chairman duties of office.
set at a level that the and non-executive committee feels is required In the event that the reimbursement of these expenses gives rise to a personal tax directors to undertake for the performance of liability for the chairman or non-executive director, the Company retains the their roles.
discretion to meet this cost including, where appropriate, costs in relation to tax advice and filing.
While not currently offered, the Company retains the discretion to pay additional benefits to the chairman including, but not limited to, use of car, office space and secretarial support.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 147 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Other chairman and non-executive director policies Letters of appointment for the chairman and non-executive directors Letters of appointment have a two-month notice period and there are no payments due on loss of office.
Appointments to the Board Letters of appointment will be consistent with the current terms as set out in this Annual Report.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable pay.
Fees for any new nonexecutive directors will be consistent with the operating policy at their time of appointment.
In respect of the appointment of a new chairman, the committee has the discretion to set fees taking into account a range of factors including the profile and prior experience of the candidate, cost and external market data.
Payments in exceptional circumstances In truly unforeseen and exceptional circumstances, the committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments which might not otherwise be covered by this policy.
The committee will not use this power to exceed the recruitment policy limit, norwill awards be made in excess of the limits set out in the Executive Remuneration Policy table.
An example of such an exceptional circumstance could be the untimely death of a director, requiring another director to take on an interim role until a permanent replacement is found.
148 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report This third section of the Compensation Committee None of the committee members has any personal report entitled the Implementation report contains financial interest other than as a share owner as details of how the Companys Executive Remuneration disclosed on page 161 in the matters to be decided Policy was implemented in 2013.
First, we present the by the committee, potential conflicts of interest details of the Compensation Committee those setting arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day and implementing the Executive Remuneration Policy involvement in running the Groups businesses.
along with contextual information that has been The terms of reference for the Compensation made available to the committee.
We then present a Committee are available on the Companys website summary of the 2013 executive remuneration together and will be on display at the AGM, as set out in the with a summary of pay across the Group.
Governance in relation to compensation Advisors to the Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee regularly consults Compensation Committee members with Group executives.
In particular, the committee No.
of will invite certain individuals to attend meetings, meetings attended including the Group chief executive who is not in 2013 present when matters relating to his own Jeffrey Rosen chairman 7 compensation or contracts are discussed and 1 Roger Agnelli 3 decided, the Company Secretary, the chief talent 1 Jacques Aigrain 3 officer and the worldwide compensation & benefits Colin Day 7 2 director.
The latter two individuals provide a Esther Dyson 6 2 perspective on information reviewed by the Philip Lader 7 1 Ruigang Li 2 committee and are a conduit for requests for 3 Daniela Riccardi 2 information and analysis from the Companys 1 Hugo Shong 2 external advisors.
Tim Shriver 7 1 Sol Trujillo 3 External advisors 1 Appointed to the committee on 12 June 2013.
2 Stepped down from the committee on 31 December 2013.
3 Appointed to the committee on 12 September 2013.
The committee continued to retain Towers Watson throughout 2013 as independent advisors.
Towers Dr John Hood and Ms Nicole Seligman were Watson is engaged to provide advice to the appointed as non-executive directors of the Company Compensation Committee and to work with and members of the committee with effect from management on matters related to our Executive 1January 2014, subject to the confirmation of their Remuneration Policy and practices.
Towers Watson appointment by share owners at the AGM.
is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group During 2013, the Compensation Committee met and has signed up to the code of conduct relating to seven times on a formal basis, as noted above, with the provision of advice in the UK.
In light of this, additional ad hoc meetings held as needed.
These and the level and nature of the service received, the largely related to formalising policies as required committee remains satisfied that the advice is indeed under the new remuneration reporting regulations.
No other services are WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 149 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report provided by Towers Watson at a Group level, although some of the operating companies may engage at a local level.
In 2013, Towers Watson received fees of 144,575 in relation to the provision of advice to the committee.
The committee also receives external legal advice, where required, to assist it in carrying out its duties.
Statement of share owner voting The 2013 AGM was preceded by an extensive share owner consultation process that addressed matters of concern raised by share owners in 2012.
As a result of the consultation, significant changes were made to the Group chief executives compensation package and a new long-term incentive plan was introduced.
Whilst some share owners continued to express dissatisfaction with the remuneration structure and the levels of incentive opportunity, a significant majority felt that the committee had listened to, and addressed, the concerns that had been raised previously regarding the remuneration structure and quantum, as evidenced in the material increase in share owner support of the Compensation Committee Report at the AGM last year.
Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Resolution Number % Number % Number Number To approve the Compensation Committee Report 725,366,040 80.58 174,811,202 19.42 900,177,242 86,651,380 To approve the EPSP 798,616,899 83.62 156,420,404 16.38 955,037,303 31,791,319 There have been no changes to the Executive Remuneration Policy, and no substantive changes to themanner of its implementation, during 2013 or planned for 2014.
In light of this and the significant improvement in share owner support following the last engagement in 2012 13, the committee determined that further share owner consultation after the 2013 AGM was not required.
The committee was aware, prior to the 2013 AGM, of the reasons why some share owners felt unable to support the resolution to approve the Compensation Committee Report.
However, the committee considered that the revised policy was in the best interests of the Company which was subsequently corroborated by the support of a significant majority of share owners.
150 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Executive directors total remuneration received audited Single total figure of remuneration in 2013 and 2012 Base salary Short-term Long-term Total annual 3 4 5 6 and fees Benefits DEPs Pension incentives incentives remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1,2 Sir Martin Sorrell 2013 1,150 350 1,101 460 4,115 22,670 29,846 7 7 2012 1,300 271 940 586 3,078 11,368 17,543 2 Paul Richardson 2013 698 107 210 1,753 6,408 9,176 2012 684 96 205 1,401 5,684 8,070 Mark Read 2013 433 11 54 800 1,698 2,996 2012 425 3 43 570 1,137 2,178 1 A s noted on page 130, effective 1 January 2013, the Group chief executives remuneration package was reduced with decreases to base salary, pension allowance and shortand long-term incentive opportunities.
2 A ny US dollar amounts received in 2013 have been converted into sterling at an exchange rate of $1.5646 to 1.
3 D etails of benefits are set out on page 152.
4 S ir Martin Sorrell receives payments in accordance with the approval granted by share owners of amounts equal to the dividends that would be payable during 2013 totalling 1,100,578 940,480 during 2012 in respect of the shares reflected in the UK and US Deferred Stock Units Awards Agreements which arethe agreements that now comprise the awards granted under the Capital Investment Plan in 1995.
5 T his is the aggregate amount awarded for the 2013 and 2012 financial years performance.
The awards are delivered equally in a deferred share bonus in theform of an ESA which vests two years from date of grant subject to continued employment and cash.
6 T his is the value of the 2009 and 2008 LEAP Awards which vested in 2014 and 2013 following the end of the five-year performance period on 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
7 I n this table, the value of benefits shown as having been received by Sir Martin Sorrell for 2012 is 85,259 less than was disclosed in last years Annual Report.
This is because a non-taxable life insurance premium was included in the benefits figure disclosed in last years Annual Report and, following the implementation of the new UK directors remuneration reporting requirements, only taxable benefits should be disclosed.
A corresponding adjustment has beenmade to the 2012 total annual remuneration figure for Sir Martin.
Fixed elements of remuneration audited Base salary and fees Contractual Base salary and fees salary and fees received in 2013 Effective review date 000 000 1 Sir Martin Sorrell 1 Jan 2013 1,150 1,150 2 Paul Richardson 1 July 2013 $945 and 100 $935 and 100 2 Mark Read 1 July 2013 440 433 1 I n accordance with Sir Martin Sorrells contract of employment, 40% of his salary is paid in US dollars.
Due to the fluctuations in the US dollar: sterling exchange rates in the year, retranslating the amounts paid at the exchange rate of $1.5646 to 1 gives a total of 1,164,817.
2 T he amount disclosed as the base salary and fees received in 2013 for Paul Richardson and Mark Read is a combination of two contractual amounts given the increase that took place effective 1 July 2013.
Each executive director receives a fee of 100,000 in respect of their directorship of WPP plc, which is included above.
Share owners will be aware that the Group chief executives base salary is one aspect of his overall remuneration that has been reduced following consultation in 2012 13.
Effective 1 January 2013, SirMartin Sorrells base salary and fee was reduced by 12% to 1.15 million.
The base salary and fees for Paul Richardson and Mark Read, which had not changed since January 2011, were reviewed and increased with effect from 1 July 2013 by 1.8% and 3.5% respectively.
Employees across the Group who were subject to a salary review received an average annual salary increase of approximately 3%.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 151 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Benefits, dividend equivalent payments and pension 2013 Benefits 2013 DEPs 000 000 Sir Martin Sorrell 350 1,101 Paul Richardson 107 Mark Read 11 The benefits shown are those provided to the executive directors that are deemed taxable in the UK or those that would be taxable if Paul Richardson were resident in the UK.
These benefits primarily include carand or car allowance, healthcare, life assurance, long-term disability allowance, spousal travel costs and housing allowance.
The table above also includes share owner-approved dividend equivalent payments of 1,100,578 940,480 during 2012 which are due on certain of Sir Martin Sorrells deferred share awards.
The following table provides a breakdown of the key taxable benefits in respect of 2013: Housing Car benefits Healthcare Spousal travel allowance Other expenses 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Martin Sorrell 30 43 167 63 47 Paul Richardson 24 15 44 24 Mark Read 3 8 2013 Pension Contractual pension 000 Sir Martin Sorrell 40% 460 Paul Richardson 30% 210 Mark Read 15% 54 All pension benefits for the executive directors are provided on either a defined contribution or a cash allowance basis.
Only the aggregate of base salary and fees is pensionable.
As part of the alterations to the Group chief executives remuneration package following share owner consultation, his pension allowance wasreduced to 40% with effect from 1 January 2013.
Paul Richardsons pension contribution remained unchanged at 30%.
Mark Reads pension contribution was increased from 10% to 15% with effect from1July 2013, aligning it with the standard level of provision for executive roles within the UK.
152 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Variable elements of pay audited Short-term incentives The following tables summarise the measures and performance assessment by the Compensation Committee in respect of the bonus awarded for 2013.
The committee has determined that the disclosure of annual performance targets on a retrospective basis would put the Company at a competitive disadvantage and thatthe information is commercially sensitive.
However, in the spirit of the new UK remuneration reporting regulations, details of the actual performance achieved over the year are set out below, along with an indication of where this achievement sat relative to the targets which were set.
All financial measures in theshort-term incentive plan are calculated on a like-for-like, constant currency basis.
Short-term incentives are determined based on performance across two areas: Financial objectives Group or WPP Digital Individual strategic objectives 70% 30% Financial and individual strategic objectives Sir Martin Sorrell and Paul Richardson The operational performance in the Group was very strong in 2013 and the challenging targets set by thecommittee in the beginning of the year were exceeded.
Like-for-like Headline PBT increased by 9.7% resulting in a performance level between target and maximum.
Like-for-like Headline PBT margin increased by 0.76% resulting in a performance level above the maximum and the like-for-like revenue growth of 3.5% was just above target level.
Performance measures Actual performance in 2013 Threshold Target Maximum Financial objectives Group Headline PBT growth Headline PBT margin improvement Revenue growth Strategic objectives The committee assessed performance against Sir Martin Leadership planning the key strategic goals Sorrell set for the year.
The Creative reputation outcome determined M&A including M&A integration by the committee was and digital progress based on a qualitative assessment of personal Paul Working capital management performance.
Richardson Finance & IT leadership strengthening Back ofce and IT efficiencies WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 153 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Mark Read The performance of WPP Digital is not in the public domain and is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, the chart below illustrates that the operational performance of WPP Digital was very strong and above the maximum level set.
The revenue growth was also strong and was positioned between the target andmaximum performance level.
Performance measures Actual performance in 2013 Threshold Target Maximum Financial objectives WPP Digital Operating profit growth plus equity earnings from certain WPP Digital companies Revenue growth Strategic objectives The committee assessed performance against Strategic digital positioning the key strategic goals Digital reputation set for the year.
The outcome determined Digital asset acquisition and integration by the committee was Cross-Group co-operation on digital based on a qualitative initiatives assessment of personal performance.
Based on the performance set out above, the resulting bonus for each executive relating to 2013 was: 2013 actual bonus 2013 actual bonus delivery 2013 Short-term % of base salary and fees % of bonus incentive Target Maximum Actual financial financial and and individual individual Individual strategic strategic Financial strategic Total objectives objectives objectives objectives bonus Cash ESA Sir Martin Sorrell 217.5% 435% 252% 106% 358% 50% 50% 4,115,251 Paul Richardson 200% 300% 186% 68% 254% 50% 50% 1,752,652 Mark Read 134% 200% 132% 50% 182% 50% 50% 800,067 As noted above, 50% of the 2013 bonus is delivered in the form of shares as an Executive Share Award ESA.
These will be granted during 2014 following publication of this Annual Report and will vest, subjectto continued employment, two years later.
154 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Short-term incentive weightings and measures for 2014 The committee has reviewed the performance measures and weightings for 2014 to ensure continued alignment with Company strategy.
While the weighting of financial objectives 70% and individual strategic objectives 30% will remain unchanged, the Group financial measures have been adjusted.
The 2014 measures will be Headline PBT growth, Headline gross margin net sales margin improvement and gross margin net sales growth.
The financial objectives established for WPP Digital will be consistent with last year and the individual strategic measures will continue to focus on strategic priorities for the relevant business area.
As stated in the Executive Remuneration Policy, the committee is of the view that the targets for the STIP are commercially sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Company to disclose them in advance of or during the relevant performance period.
To the extent targets are no longer commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed at the end of the relevant performance period in that years Annual Report.
Long-term incentives audited 2009 2013 LEAP III awards vesting The 2009 awards were the first granted under LEAP III.
The vesting was solely dependent on WPPs relative TSR performance measured in common currency, against a custom group of WPPs comparators Aegis, Arbitron, Dentsu, GfK, Havas, Interpublic, Ipsos, Omnicom and Publicis weighted by market capitalisation.
Over the five-year investment and performance period, WPP out-performed 82% of the weighted peer group, delivering TSR of 241%.
In other words, a shareholding of 100 at the start of the period would be worth 241 at the end, including reinvested dividends.
Aegis and Arbitron, two of the comparator companies, were taken over during the investment and performance period by Dentsu and Nielsen respectively.
In line with the guidelines established by the committee, the two companies remained in the comparator group as they were both listed for more than 40% of the investment and performance period.
Their TSR performance was calculated assuming reinvestment into a synthetic stock of the remaining comparators with effect from the date immediately prior to which it was independently determined that the share price was unaffected by either a takeover premium or speculation.
On a relative basis, financial and operational performance was strong, consistent with the TSR outcome and no exceptional events were identified.
As a result, the committee found no reason to make any adjustment to the vesting outcome.
WPPs TSR performance relative to the comparator group resulted in a match of 437%, equating to 87% of the maximum award.
Value added Value of match at due to share price Share price grant price of appreciation and 2013 Long-term Number of on vesting 6.1025 dividends incentives shares vesting 000 000 000 Sir Martin Sorrell 1,777,173 12.7564 10,845 11,825 22,670 Paul Richardson 502,352 12.7564 3,066 3,342 6,408 Mark Read 133,118 12.7564 812 886 1,698 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 155 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report 2013 EPSP awards granted In 2013, all three executive directors, along with a select number of senior managers within the Group, were granted awards under the new long-term incentive plan that was approved by share owners at the 2013 AGM, the Executive Performance Share Plan EPSP.
The 2013 awards are subject to three equally weighted independent performance conditions, being relative TSR, EPS and ROE.
Performance is measured over the five financial years starting in 2013 as follows: Measure Total Shareowner Return TSR Earnings Per Share EPS Return On Equity ROE Weight One-third One-third One-third Nature Relative to peers WPP growth WPP absolute Performance zone Median to upper decile 7% 14% compound annual growth 10% 14% average threshold to maximum Payout Below threshold: 0% of element vests Threshold: 20% of element vests Maximum or above: 100% of element vests Straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum Performance period Five years ending on 31 December 2017 As in previous years, WPPs TSR performance is compared to companies representing our most relevant, listed global competitors, weighted by market capitalisation.
In 2013, the comparator group comprised Arbitron, Dentsu, GfK, Havas, Interpublic, Ipsos, Nielsen, Omnicom and Publicis.
Subsequent to the grant ofthe 2013 awards, Arbitron was acquired by Nielsen and, in accordance with the guidelines established bythe committee, Arbitron has been removed from the comparator group as it was listed for less than 40% of the investment and performance period.
In light of feedback from share owners, TSR performance will becalculated on both a common currency and local currency basis, with each outcome weighted equally.
The following interests were awarded on 28 June 2013 at the preceding five-day average share price of 10.848 ordinary shares or $83.4186 ADRs.
Basis and level of award Number of interests Face value at date of grant % of salary and fees Award over awarded 000 Sir Martin Sorrell 974% Ordinary shares 1,032,540 11,201 Paul Richardson 400% ADRs 52,026 $4,340 Mark Read 200% Ordinary shares 78,355 850 156 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Aligning pay and performance As set out in the Executive Remuneration Policy, the committee seeks to align the variable remuneration with the key strategic priorities of WPP, therefore maximising the dynamic between pay and performance.
This dynamic is contingent upon the committee setting challenging targets each year.
The following graph and table demonstrate the relation between pay and performance over the last five years for the Group chief executive.
1 Historical TSR Performance Value of hypothetical 100 holding WPP 450 410 FTSE 100 400 350 300 250 200 185 150 100 50 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Financial Year 31st December 2 Group chief executive total remuneration 000 7,199 11,597 11,941 17,543 29,846 Year-on-year change in Group chief executive total remuneration 63% 61% 3% 47% 70% Short-term incentives award against maximum opportunity 32% 95% 77% 62% 82% Long-term incentives award against maximum opportunity 50% 83% 46% 86% 87% 3 Change in annual TSR 66% 32% -13% 38% 56% 4 Change in five-year TSR 10% 37% 13% 45% 241% Source: DataStream Return Index 1 G rowth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in WPP ordinary shares over five years against an equivalent holding in the FTSE 100 the broad market equity index of which WPP is a constituent comparison based on one month average of trading day values.
2 C alculated using the single figure methodology.
3 T SR calculated using a one-month trading day average, consistent with the data shown in the graph.
4 T SR calculated using a six-month averaging period, consistent with the calculation methodology under LEAP EPSP.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in total staff costs, headcount, dividends and share buy-backs.
2013 2012 % change Total Staff costs 6,477.1m 6,106.1m 6.08% Headcount average over the year 117,115 114,490 2.29% Dividends and share buy-backs 594.3m 441.1m 34.73% WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 157 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Relative change in pay for the Group chief executive As required under the new UK remuneration reporting regulations, the following table summarises the change in the Group chief executives base salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus, compared to that of all full-time employees within the Group.
1 2 Base salary and fees Taxable benefits Annual bonus Group chief executive -13.0% 29.1% 33.7% All employees 1.5% 6.8% 9.5% 1 T aking into account the worldwide structure and size of the Group, and given the need to calculate benefits on the basis that an individual is resident in the UK for tax purposes, collating data on all employees was not practicable.
As a result, the population for the taxable benefits consists of UK employees only.
2 T he annual bonus data used for the Group chief executive uses the short-term incentive figures set out on page 151.
Non-executive directors fees During 2013, a review of the fees due to non-executive directors was undertaken.
As a result of that review, the fees for non-executive directorship, the chairman of the Company and for membership of the Nomination and Governance Committee were increased from 1 July 2013.
The fees following that review are set out below 000.
Chairman 475 Non-executive director 70 Senior independent director 20 Chairmanship of Audit or Compensation Committee 40 Chairmanship of Nomination and Governance Committee 15 Member of Audit or Compensation Committee 20 Member of Nomination and Governance Committee 10 Non-executive directors total remuneration received audited The single total figure of remuneration table below details fee payments received by the non-executive directors while they held a position on the Board.
During both 2012 and 2013, the company met the cost including national insurance and income tax, where relevant of expenses that were incurred by the nonexecutive directors in performing their duties of office, in accordance with the policy set out on page 147.
In2013, the disclosable value of the expenses that would be chargeable to UK income tax totalled 131,390 including 38,477 of national insurance and income tax, where relevant.
In 2012, because all Board meetings were held outside of the UK and therefore the non-executive directors did not incur a UK income tax liability in respect of their expenses, there is no disclosable value for that year.
158 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Fees 000 2013 2012 Philip Lader 450 425 1 Roger Agnelli 74 1 Jacques Aigrain 68 2 Charlene Begley 8 Colin Day 119 108 Esther Dyson 95 90 Orit Gadiesh 75 70 Ruigang Li 83 65 3,6 Stanley Bud Morten 43 85 3,5 Koichiro Naganuma 3,6 John Quelch 39 71 4 Daniela Riccardi 27 Jeffrey Rosen 153 145 1 Hugo Shong 74 6 Timothy Shriver 106 85 3 Paul Spencer 53 106 1 Sally Susman 49 Sol Trujillo 98 85 1 Appointed to the Board on 13 May 2013.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2013.
3 Stepped down from the Board on 12 June 2013.
4 Appointed to the Board on 12 September 2013.
6 F ee includes additional payments for presentation, ex officio or consulting services as follows: John Quelch 6,496 6,218 in 2012, Stanley Morten 10,000 20,000in 2012 and Tim Shriver 13,428 nil in 2012.
No payments for loss of office were due to those non-executive directors that stepped down during the year.
Past directors audited During 2013, payments were made to past directors who continued to provide advisory services to the Company.
Payments were made to Stanley Bud Morten and John Quelch after they stepped down from the Board in June 2013.
A payment of 40,396 was made to Mr Morten in respect of advisory services provided to the WPP Group.
A payment of 55,137 was made to Mr Quelch in respect of educational presentations hegave to companies within the WPP Group and also due to advisory services provided to the WPP Group.
Apayment of 30,000 was made to John Jackson in respect of his advisory role to WPP, which enables the Company to benefit from his considerable knowledge and experience in the communications and marketing services sector.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 159 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Executive directors interests audited Executive directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital are shown in the following table.
Save as disclosed in this table and in the Compensation Committee Report, no executive director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the year.
Each executive director has a technical interest as an employee and potential beneficiary in shares in the Company held under the ESOPs.
More specifically, the executive directors have potential interests in shares related to the outstanding awards under LEAP III, the EPSP and ESAs, as set out below.
As at 31 December 2013, the Companys ESOPs which are entirely independent of the Company and have waived their rights to receive dividends held in total 24,048,113 shares in the Company 22,570,364 in 2012.
Scheme interests Total Nilor nominal-cost options beneficial interests and Shares without With performance Without performance Share options deferred performance conditions conditions vested but without performance 1 8 Director awards conditions unvested unexercised conditions exercised 9 2 4 6 Sir Martin Sorrell At 31 Dec 2013 18,556,204 492,535 10,656,225 7,813,783 3 5 7 At 16 Apr 2014 19,010,399 132,139 8,826,835 8,773,456 2 4 Paul Richardson At 31 Dec 2013 681,370 172,850 2,171,730 3 5 At 16 Apr 2014 762,850 62,875 1,654,615 2 4 Mark Read At 31 Dec 2013 115,713 72,906 609,000 20,494 3 5 At 16 Apr 2014 120,713 24,452 471,970 1 S hares held outright together with shares due pursuant to awards that have vested but receipt of which have been deferred with share owner approval seefootnote 6.
2 S hares due pursuant to the 2011 and 2012 Executive Stock Awards, full details of which can be found on page 162.
Additional dividend shares will be due onvesting.
3 S hares due pursuant to the 2012 Executive Stock Awards, full details of which can be found on page 162.
Additional dividend shares will be due on vesting.
4 M aximum number of shares due on vesting pursuant to the outstanding LEAP III and EPSP awards, full details of which can be found on page 163.
5 A s noted at footnote 4 above, less the maximum due under the 2009 LEAP III Award, which vested on 28 February 2014 full details can be found on page 155.
6 S hares 1 pursuant to the vesting of awards under Renewed LEAP namely the 2004 and 2005 awards, part of the 2006 award and the 2007 award and 2 which originally formed part of the Capital Investment Plan an award made in 1995, which vested in 1999, in respect of 4,691,392 shares in total, some of which have been received by Sir Martin Sorrell and which now comprise the share owner-approved UK and US Deferred Stock Units Awards Agreements.
The receipt of all of these awards has been deferred until November 2017 in accordance with share owner approval.
Dividend shares will be due on the exercise of these options.
7 A s noted at footnote 6 above, with the addition of the shares due pursuant to the vesting of the UK part of the 2009 LEAP III Award.
The receipt of this award has been deferred until November 2017 in accordance with share owner approval.
Dividend shares will be due on the exercise of this option.
8 S hares acquired during the year pursuant to the exercise of options, full details of which can be found on page 164.
9 O n 28 March 2014, Sir Martin Sorrell gifted 1,100,000 ordinary shares to The JMCMRJ Sorrell Charitable Foundation.
At 16 April 2014, The JMCMRJ Sorrell Charitable Foundation is interested in 2,105,936 ordinary shares.
Sir Martin has no beneficial interest in these shares.
160 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Share ownership guidelines As detailed in the Executive Remuneration Policy, the executive directors are required to achieve a minimum level of share ownership of WPP shares.
The Group chief executive, Group finance director and chief executive, WPP Digital are required to hold shares to the value of 600%, 300% and 200% of base salary andfees respectively.
At the end of 2013 and at the date of this Compensation Committee Report, all executive directors exceeded their share ownership guidelines.
Non-executive directors interests audited Non-executive directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital are shown in the following table.
Save as disclosed in this table and in the Compensation Committee Report, no non-executive director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Group during the year.
Total Interests Total Interests Non-executive director at 31 Dec 2013 at 16 Apr 2014 Roger Agnelli Jacques Aigrain 4,000 Charlene Begley Colin Day 15,240 15,240 Esther Dyson 35,000 35,000 Orit Gadiesh 1 John Hood n a Philip Lader 11,950 11,950 Ruigang Li Daniela Riccardi Jeffrey Rosen 12,000 12,000 1 Nicole Seligman n a 3,750 Hugo Shong Tim Shriver 10,000 10,000 Sally Susman Sol Trujillo 10,000 10,000 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 161 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Outstanding share-based awards In the interests of transparency, the following tables summarise all unexercised share options and sharebased awards either vesting in the year or subject to ongoing performance conditions.
Executive Share Awards ESA held by executive directors All Executive Share Awards made under the Restricted Stock Plan are made on the basis of satisfaction of previous performance conditions and are subject to continuous employment until the vesting date.
The table does not include the 2013 ESAs as these will not be granted until after publication of this Annual Report.
Unless otherwise noted, awards are made in the form of WPP ordinary shares.
The grants represent 50% of the total bonus earned and are not subject to a secondary performance requirement, other than continued employment.
2 Paul Richardsons 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 ESAs were granted in respect of ADRs.
3 Face value has been calculated using the average closing share price for the five trading days preceding the date of grant as set out in the table.
4 Dividend shares will be due on these awards.
162 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Long-term incentive plans Leadership Equity Acquisition Plans The following table summarises all of the awards outstanding under Renewed LEAP and LEAP III.
Awards granted in 2008 were granted under Renewed LEAP.
Awards granted in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were granted under LEAP III.
Long-term incentive plans Executive Performance Share Plan The following table summarises all of the awards outstanding under Executive Performance Share Plan.
During 2013 Maximum Number of nil Options Maximum number cost options over Share ADR Options Additional exercised of nil cost options Grant shares ADRs price on vested dividend or over shares ADRs 1 date Performance period awarded grant date lapsed shares deferred at 31 Dec 2013 Sir Martin Sorrell 28.06.13 01.01.13 31.12.17 1,032,540 10.8480 1,032,540 2 Paul Richardson 28.06.13 01.01.13 31.12.17 52,026 $83.4186 52,026 Mark Read 28.06.13 01.01.13 31.12.17 78,355 10.8480 78,355 1 Dividend shares will be due on these awards.
2 Paul Richardsons 2013 EPSP award was granted in respect of ADRs.
Full Details of the 2013 EPSP award, including performance measures and targets, can be found on page 156.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 163 How we behave and how were rewarded Implementation report Options held by executive directors audited The options held by Mark Read at 1 January 2013 were granted prior to him becoming a director of the Company and were not subject to any performance conditions.
All outstanding options were exercised on 12September 2013.
Granted End of At 1 Jan Lapsed Exercised At 31 Dec Grant exercise Exercise 2013 no.
