64 Governance For more information about Corporate Governance Report our governance framework Letter from the chairman visit: www.
com investors governance Dear Shareholder In my role as chairman of the Board I seek to create a highly effective working dynamic, encouraging debate and fostering the link between the independent non-executive directors and executive management.
My aim is to ensure the Board fully engages with the business and understands the dynamics of the Group at all levels.
An effective board, able to make well informed decisions, is critical to our success.
The Company benefits from having well informed, engaged and committed directors who participate in robust and challenging debate.
Best practice This year, as every year, the Board reviewed the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2010.
This is the standard against which we were required to measure ourselves in the year ended 31 March 2013.
Last year, a new edition of the Code was published the 2012 Code which applies to the Company from 1 April 2013.
In line with our usual approach, we have sought, as far as possible, to comply with the 2012 Code before 1 April 2013.
Diversity Diversity, particularly gender diversity, remains an important priority for us, the public and our investors.
The Board continues to aspire to a membership of at least one third women by 2015, without compromising its focus on diversity of thought and experience as key drivers of its effectiveness.
Within our businesses, proactive steps are being taken to increase gender diversity, as discussed in greater detail in the Human Resources Review page 49.
We continue to monitor developments in best practice and regulation in this area, particularly in considering Board succession planning.
I am pleased to report that the Company already meets the proposed European Union EU objective that 40% of non-executive directors on listed boards should be female by 2020.
Succession planning Lord Boyce, our senior independent director, will retire from the Board at the conclusion of our annual general meeting AGM on 31 July 2013.
He has served the Company for nine years and I would like to thank him for his contribution and support during that time.
The Board and I are delighted that Fiona Clutterbuck, who has served as a non-executive director since March 2007, will take up the position of senior independent director on his retirement.
Shareholder engagement Our engagement with investors continues to evolve.
We have a programme of regular analyst presentations and breakfasts throughout the year.
In addition, in the lead up to the 2012 AGM, there was a period of extensive engagement with institutional shareholders regarding the Companys review of executive remuneration.
The Board is grateful to shareholders for their involvement in this process and pleased that the proposals received their broad support.
Performance evaluation This year the Board underwent an externally facilitated performance evaluation.
Details of this exercise, including a description of the resulting actions, can be found later in this report.
An update on the actions resulting from the 2011 Board evaluation, conducted by myself in accordance with the Code, is also provided.
Yours sincerely Allan Cook Chairman 12 June 2013 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 65 For more detailed information about how the Board and its committees operate visit: www.
com investors leadership Statement of compliance with the Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2013 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code, a copy of which is available on the FRCs website: www.
Compliance with the 2012 Code is required commencing from 1 April 2013.
However, the Board accepts that it represents a statement of best practice and, as such, it has reviewed its practices relative to it and this is reflected in additional information included within this report.
The disclosures that follow mirror the five sections of the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with shareholders.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on the Groups website: www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for ensuring the long term success of the Company.
It does so by determining the Companys long term direction and strategic aims within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
A key principle of the framework is the delegation of operational management to the chief executive officer with a matrix of authorities setting out how this is further delegated through the organisation.
This enables the efficient and effective day to day operation of the Groups businesses.
Further details on the roles of the chairman, chief executive officer and senior independent director can be found on the Groups website: www.
An overview of the role of the senior leadership team SLT, through which the chief executive officer discharges his responsibilities, is also provided.
The Board has reserved a number of matters for its sole consideration.
These include: consideration and approval of strategy general oversight of the Groups operations approval of significant bids and contracts the Groups capital, corporate, management and control structures approval of financial statements and shareholder communications approval of dividend policy and interim dividends approval of Group policies implementation and monitoring of internal control and risk management systems approval of significant contracts, acquisitions and disposals material changes to the Groups pension schemes.
While the Board has specific responsibility for the matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail later in this report and their terms of reference are available on the Groups website or on request from the company secretary.
In addition the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide final sign off for an agreed course of action within predefined parameters.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 66 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The key agenda items discussed by the Board during the year included: Theme Agenda items Financial Approval of trading updates and interim management statements reporting Approval of the full year results, 2012 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2012 Approval of the half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2012 Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate Quarterly performance updates and business reviews including Human Resources HR, quality, environmental and health and safety matters Appointment of the independent auditor and approval of its audit fee Strategy Sale of the UK highways services business Information assurance and cyber security Group strategy development, approval and implementation Defined benefit pension schemes deficits Operations The Groups banking facilities Significant project approvals Programme to drive operational excellence Review of Group risk log Budget Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2014 Business Middle East presentations Group IS Scandinavia India Global Design Centre Water Asia Pacific Governance Governance framework review, including review of risk management and internal controls Approval of key corporate policies and Board committee terms of reference Directors conflicts of interest and annual review of authorised conflicts Shareholder Updates on the views of shareholders following the announcement of results, investor meetings engagement and roadshows Independent feedback from the Groups broker following investor meetings Reports from the investor relations director Consideration of market reaction to key announcements including the sale of the UK highways services business Employees Employee diversity, particularly gender diversity Talent development Review of the results of the 2012 employee engagement survey Senior personnel changes and succession planning Board Outcomes of, and actions arising from, the externally evaluated 2012 review of Board effectiveness Consideration of proposed EU legislation in relation to women on boards Approval of non-executive directors fees WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 67 For more information about how the Board ensures it is operating effectively visit: www.
com investors effectiveness The membership of the Board during the year is shown in table 1 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately pages 58 and 59.
1 Table 1: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Allan Cook Nomination Committee chairman 13 13 2 2 Executive directors Heath Drewett Group finance director 13 13 Alun Griffiths Group HR director 13 13 Uwe Krueger chief executive officer 13 13 Senior independent director Admiral the Lord Boyce 13 13 6 6 2 2 Independent non-executive directors Fiona Clutterbuck 13 13 4 4 6 6 2 2 Joanne Curin Audit Committee chairman 13 13 4 4 2 2 Raj Rajagopal Remuneration Committee chairman 13 13 4 4 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 Rodney Slater 11 13 5 6 1 2 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Two of the Board meetings, one of the Remuneration Committee meetings and one of the Nomination Committee meetings coincided with prior arrangements.
Allan Cooks external appointments changed during the year as a result of the restructuring of SELEX Galileo.
He is now chairman of Finmeccanica UK Limited and of Selex ES Ltd. To enable him to carry out his responsibilities as chairman, he continues to spend at least three days per week with the Company.
Directors conflicts of interest Each director is required, in accordance with the Act, to declare any interests that may give rise to a conflict of interest with the Company on appointment and subsequently as they arise.
Where such a conflict, or potential conflict, arises the Board is empowered under the Companys articles of association to consider and authorise such conflicts as appropriate.
In addition, the Company undertakes an annual review of all authorised conflicts to ensure such authorisation remains appropriate, the last such review having taken place in November 2012.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website: www.
Effectiveness Nomination Committee Information regarding the members and role of the Nomination Committee, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
The key matters discussed by the Nomination Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Succession Executive and non-executive directors planning Members of the SLT Development Review of the new Group leadership development programme Diversity Consideration of actions being undertaken by management to promote gender diversity Board and Election and re-election of directors in accordance with the Companys articles of association committee appointments WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 68 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Succession planning We are pleased that the Board benefits from a broad range of backgrounds and skills.
The Board succession plan is framed with the aim of retaining appropriate diversity of thought and experience to enable the Company to implement its strategy.
Considerable effort has also been put into developing talent below Board level, notably through the introduction of a Group leadership development programme.
The executive search firm Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann has provided support on our most recent Board appointments.
We are pleased that it has signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which promotes gender diversity and best practice for corporate board search processes.
Gender imbalance below Board level is widely recognised as a potential factor in gender imbalance at Board level.
The Company has sought to address this through various initiatives, as set out in the Human Resources Review page 49.
As part of the succession planning exercise, a number of female employees have been identified as potential future leaders.
It is hoped this will create a pipeline of senior female talent in both management and technical roles.
Board and employee diversity The Board is committed to gender diversity both within its own membership and within the Group.
The topic of womens representation on boards remains high on the agenda for governments and the public.
In April 2013 Lord Davies of Abersoch published his second annual progress report on this matter.
He has called for chief executive officers to set out the percentage of women they aim to have on their executive committees and in senior management levels within their organisation by 2015.
We are pleased to confirm that we have set a short term target of increasing female representation in both the senior management population the top 1,000 employees in the Group and the SLT to 15% by 31 March 2015.
At present, women account for 12.4% of the senior management population 2012: 11.3% and 14.3% of the SLT.
Board diversity was further addressed as part of the externally facilitated Board evaluation, which is discussed in more detail later in this report.
The Boards current diversity is shown in table 2 below.
Table 2: Board diversity Board experience and composition Percentage of Board membership Board overall 100% Nationality citizenship Engineering 33.3% Defence 22.2% Finance accountancy, 44.4% private equity and corporate finance Legal 22.2% Transportation 11.1% Human Resources 11.1% Management consultancy 33.3% strategic consultancy UK: 22.2% Other global multinational boards US: 22.2% European: 22.2% Not for profit, educational 22.2% and public entities WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 69 Performance evaluation The Board recognises the need to maintain its ongoing development to ensure its continued effectiveness and to continue to respond to evolving best practice.
This involves a continuous process of: reflecting on past performance and the implementation of past actions consideration of future training, skill and diversity requirements identification and implementation of new actions to improve performance.
The Board recognises that the process of improving its effectiveness requires continuous attention, particularly in respect of actions such as ensuring the correct Board balance 2011, succession planning 2010 and 2011 and Board focus 2010.
The Board undertakes a rigorous and formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and directors annually.
The Board believes that an external evaluation every three years brings new insight into its processes and performance.
The planned 2011 external evaluation was postponed on account of Prof Dr Uwe Kruegers recent appointment as chief executive officer.
It was felt that delaying the external evaluation would enable his leadership of the business to be fully embedded and that, as a consequence, the review by a third party would be of greater value at a later date.
Accordingly, the 2012 evaluation exercise was externally facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, which has no other connection with the Company.
Independent Board Evaluation conducted interviews with each member of the Board, the company secretary, representatives from the senior management team, the independent auditor, the internal auditor and the Companys broker.
It also compared the Boards composition and aspects of its governance with those of companies of a similar size, complexity and in a similar line of business.
The Board requested that the following areas of its role and performance be explored in depth during the evaluation process: accountability, governance and culture composition of the Board and its committees and their balance and diversity of skills, experience, independence and knowledge, including consideration of gender diversity how the Board and its committees work as individual units as well as their interaction with each other and with management the performance of individual directors other factors relevant to the Boards effectiveness such as management of meetings and the quality of information provided by management.
The Board received a written report and presentation from Independent Board Evaluation.
The written report and presentation, which identified areas for improvement, was debated and discussed in detail.
A clear action plan for the year ahead was then developed and approved.
The actions identified in the 2012 review build upon the actions identified in previous years and focus on the role of the Board, the diversity of the Board and communication with the Board.
In particular, the continuing implementation of the actions to provide more timely and detailed management data 2011 and enhance the rolling 12 month agenda 2010 has improved the effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings.
This led to a discussion on the wider remit of the Board and the proposal that Board members be encouraged to increase their input into the Company outside meetings to maximise the benefit of their experience and skills and provide them with a deeper knowledge of the Group.
The key findings of the 2012 performance review will be implemented in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the next performance evaluation.
Commitment During the year all directors, including the non-executive directors, committed significant time to the Company, in line with the requirements stated in their letters of appointment and service contracts.
Development, business awareness and induction Allan Cook regularly reviews training requirements with each director.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identified.
During the year the directors have undertaken training on topics including cyber security and the global economic outlook.
The Board also receives regular updates from the company secretary on legal, regulatory and governance developments, which highlight any impact they may have on the Board and or the Group.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The induction is tailored to each new directors specific needs.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 70 Governance For more information about Corporate Governance Report our internal controls visit: continued www.
com investors accountability Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors Report pages 62 and 63.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness, as set out in the FRCs 2005 Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
During the year the Board considered the high level structure of the framework and approved its enhancement as follows: rationalisation of Group policies and introduction of a code of conduct to define the relationship between the three levels of governance within the Group Board, Group and region business and to clarify expectations around the key controls and behaviours clarification and streamlining of key inputs into the framework and the associated assurance cycle of reporting, audit and risk management.
The revised framework is illustrated in figure 1 and the required changes are currently being implemented.
Figure 1: Governance framework Level and example inputs Framework Assurance Board Board Articles of association Matters reserved to the Board Committee terms of reference Policy statements Values and ethics Group Strategy Quarterly business reviews Group authority matrix Group controls Code of Service delivery process conduct Design principles Support function manuals such as finance, Human Resources, QSE Region business Business Management System BMS Local legislation Industry requirements Budgets Deliver Business Systems Win work People work operations Project controls WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Reporting, audit, risk management Governance 71 The Group operates through a devolved and decentralised structure, which is considered key to its ability to deliver services to its clients and this is reflected in our governance framework.
Under this structure the Board has delegated operational responsibility to the chief executive officer, who then delegates authority and control to the regional chief executive officers who are all members of the SLT.
Authority is further delegated from them to the managing directors of the principal businesses and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
This approach is reflected in the revised governance framework as follows: the policy statements approved by the Board, available on our website: www.
com  policyand-governance, set out clearly and succinctly Atkins vision, commitment and arrangements, including: business conduct, risk management, employment, excellence in delivery, health and safety leadership, sustainability and stakeholder communication Group controls set out mandatory activities and standards that are part of the overall Group processes and apply across the Group the code of conduct, which is currently being developed, will set behavioural expectations for everyone who works for and represents Atkins, the purpose being to reinforce the controls and underpin the ethics and values that apply across the Group, thereby protecting the reputation of our business and maintaining our professional standing and brand each BMS as adopted by each region business is being reviewed and updated to ensure it incorporates all Group controls and any regional and industry specific controls required to deliver our four key business processes of win work, deliver work, people and business operations, with each BMS providing a single source of information for employees enabling them to understand their responsibilities and comply with all Atkins requirements.
The following principles are key to the successful operation of the framework: authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits under the Groups authority matrix decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports effectiveness is audited via internal audit and self-assessment reviews.
The governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Joint ventures in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties but as far as possible we insist on compliance with our governance requirements as a minimum.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, including internal controls and risk management, on a continuous basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2013 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Group Risk Committee, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 72 Governance Audit Committee Letter from the Audit Committee chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Audit Committees annual report on its activities.
The role of the Committee has continued to grow in recent years in response to the increasing expectations of stakeholders.
The continuing uncertainty of the global economic environment has resulted in increased scrutiny of all companies and their audit committees from regulators, investors and other stakeholders.
I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their continued dedication to the work of the Committee.
Internal auditor Ernst & Young EY was appointed in 2010 to provide internal audit services to the Group.
The Committee has been very satisfied with the development of the internal audit function since this appointment, particularly its use of best practice processes and its more balanced approach to both operational and financial audits.
EYs ability to scale resource and deploy specialists where necessary in support of this approach has led to a marked improvement in the internal audit service.
Independent auditor During the year the Committee has kept under review future regulatory and best practice developments in connection with its role and responsibilities.
In particular, it has considered the requirements under the 2012 Code for the independent audit contract to be put out to tender every 10 years.
In line with the FRCs proposed transitional guidelines, it is currently proposed that the Company will consider this to coincide with the end of the tenure of the current lead audit partner.
Any recommendation for the reappointment of the independent auditor will continue to be the subject of rigorous review each year.
This year, having considered the effectiveness and performance of the independent auditor, the Committee has recommended to the Board the reappointment of  LLP PwC as independent auditor of the Company.
Yours sincerely Joanne Curin Audit Committee chairman 12 June 2013 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 73 Information regarding the members and scope of the Committee, including its terms of reference, can be found on the Groups website: www.
The key matters discussed by the Committee during the financial year included: Theme Agenda items Financial Judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 March 2012 including a review of reporting accounting policies and going concern Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2012 Draft results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2012 Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 September 2012 Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2012 Draft half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2012 Plans for the preparation of the full year results for the year ended 31 March 2013 Internal controls Review of internal controls Group self-certification process and statement Review of the whistleblower and fraud response policies and processes Reports on whistleblower confidential hotline activity Review of Group tax and treasury policies Consideration of the role of the senior accounting officer and the statements required to be filed Internal audit Consideration and approval of the internal audit plan for 2013 14 Regular reviews of internal audit findings Adoption of a policy regarding the management of potential conflicts between the Group and the internal auditor Performance of EY as internal auditor Approval of changes to the Groups Internal Audit Charter Independent Independent audit plans for the six months to 30 September 2012 and for the year ended 31 March 2013 auditor Review of the policy regarding the management of potential conflicts between the Group and the independent auditor, including non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor Approval in line with policy of non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Risk Annual review of the activities of the Group Risk Committee Review of Group risk log Governance Consideration of the 2012 Code, transitional arrangements proposed by the FRC in relation to the independent audit tender and its Guidance on Audit Committees Review of the report regarding the effectiveness of the Committee by Independent Board Evaluation Independent auditor The independent auditor is currently PwC, which has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
During the year the Committee conducted a review of the relationship with the independent auditor, as well as its qualification, expertise and resources and the effectiveness and quality of the audit.
It concluded that PwCs appointment continues to meet the Groups needs and therefore recommended its reappointment as independent auditor to the Board.
The independence of the independent auditor is evidenced through its challenge to management.
Its independence and objectivity are assured through the rotation of the audit partner on a regular basis, the last such rotation having taken place in 2012.
Accordingly, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date to undertake a tender process for the audit work, although it has considered PwCs tenure and appointment on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of independent auditor.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 74 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee understands that certain work of a non-audit nature may be best undertaken by the independent auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of key areas of the Company.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing non-audit work in accordance with a Group policy, summarised in table 3.
This policy is drafted with a view to preserving the independence and objectivity of the independent auditor and is approved annually by the Committee.
The impact on independence, if any, of non-audit work performed by the independent auditor is also considered regularly by the Committee.
The policy sets out safeguards to be considered when engaging the independent auditor for non-audit services.
The appointment of former employees of the independent auditor to positions in the Group is also regulated by the Committee.
Table 3: Policy on non-audit services provided by the independent auditor Work best performed by the independent auditor as a result Audit related of its unique position and knowledge Prohibited services of the Company Other work work Examples Regulatory Taxation advice Provision of non-material systems or Book-keeping of types work Assisting and working with the project services under the control of services of work Reporting internal audit function a Group project manager Other services accountants Forensic work Secondment of staff other than to deemed to be to a share or Internal audit services under the prepare accounting records or financial incompatible bond issue instruction of the internal audit statements with auditor or other function Remuneration surveys independence shareholder Valuation services not material Systems recommendation and by professional circulars to the financial statements and implementation or governmental Auditing where there is not a high degree Pension or other financial advisory regulations of share of subjectivity work schemes Approval Executive management via the Group finance director Following a supplier review, if n a required and company secretary has delegated authority to use management does identify the the independent auditor without prior consultation independent auditor as being the best with the Committee although the nature of, and fees supplier in a specific field and also believes associated with, that work will be regularly reported that such an assignment does not run the to the Committee.
risk of prejudicing its independence, then an evaluated request will be made to the The independent auditors audit partner also has to Committee to confirm the appointment.
approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Appointments for non-material fee levels may be approved by the Group finance director.
The independent auditors audit partner also has to approve any such engagement before it can proceed.
Note 5 to the Financial Statements page 126 sets out the fees paid to the independent auditor for audit and non-audit work.
The Committee concluded that the level of non-audit fees, which represent a value of 67% of the audit fees for the Group, did not have any impact upon PwCs independence.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance 75 For more information about our relations with shareholders visit: www.
com investors relations Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report pages 76 to 96.
Relations with shareholders The primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders are the Annual Report, preliminary statement of annual results and half year results and the AGM.
It also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively.
An investor relations section is provided on the Groups website: www.
com investors to facilitate communications with shareholders.
This includes material shared with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts at meetings.
Shareholders play a vital role in the Groups governance and their increasingly active engagement is welcomed.
The investor relations director, alongside the chief executive officer, Group finance director and chairman, provides a focal point for communication with investors and we are always keen to engage with potential new investors.
The Groups strengthened approach to investor relations enables it to be more proactive in its engagement with both shareholders and non-shareholders.
The chairman sent letters to all the Companys major investors in March of this year inviting them to contact him or the senior independent director if they wished to discuss any elements of the Companys governance, performance, strategy or other matters.
The chief executive officer and Group finance director present the preliminary statement of annual results and half year results to institutional investors and analysts.
These are also available via webcast and teleconference.
Analyst breakfasts are hosted regularly, last years having focused on UK growth opportunities and the US consultancy market.
The chief executive officer, Group finance director and investor relations director regularly attend conferences and roadshows to give shareholders, and other potential investors, access to management.
Retail shareholders have the opportunity to attend our AGM, where all directors are expected to be available to answer questions.
They are also able to submit questions in writing at any time.
All of the directors in appointment at the time attended our AGM in August 2012 and were available to speak to shareholders.
We intend to call a poll for all resolutions to be considered at the 2013 AGM.
This ensures the Company continues to follow best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2013 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Helen Baker Acting Company Secretary 12 June 2013 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Governance
