Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance Corporate governance statement There exists a clear division of The Company is committed to the principles Board of Directors responsibilities between the Chairman of corporate governance contained in the The Board of Directors comprises the and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmans UK Corporate Governance Code which was Chairman, five Executive Directors and two primary role includes ensuring that the issued in 2010 by the Financial Reporting Non-Executive Directors.
Brief biographical Board functions properly, that it meets its Council the Code for which the Board is details of all members of the Board are set obligations and responsibilities, and that its accountable to shareholders.
out on page 31. organisation and mechanisms are in place The Board considers Robin Williams and Statement of compliance and are working effectively.
The Chief David Cheesman to be independent within with the Code Executives primary role is to provide overall the meaning of the Code, in compliance with Throughout the year ended 31 December leadership and vision in developing, with Code provision B.
To be considered as 2013 the Company has been in compliance the Board, the strategic direction of the independent each Non-Executive Director is with the provisions set out in the Code.
Additionally, the Chief Executive sufficiently separate to management and free is responsible for the management of the The Board confirms that the 2013 annual from any business or other relationships overall business to ensure that strategic and report and accounts, taken as a whole, is which could affect their judgement, business plans are effectively implemented, fair, balanced and understandable, and impartiality or objectivity.
the results are monitored and reported to provides the information necessary for the Board, and financial and operational The Board is responsible for the formulation shareholders to assess the performance, objectives are attained.
of strategy: the monitoring of financial and strategy, and business model of the non-financial performance and the approval Company, in accordance with C. 1.1 The Board delegates management of of major transactions: financial statements: of the Code.
the business to the Executive Committee, other formal communications with headed by the Chief Executive Ian shareholders: and operating and capital Statement about applying the Dinwoodie.
The Executive Committee expenditure budgets.
Comprehensive Board principles of the Code meets weekly and is responsible for papers, dealing with all aspects of the The Company has applied the principles of implementing Group strategy, monitoring business, are distributed by the Company the Code, including both the Main Principles business performance, preparing the Secretary typically one week in advance of and the supporting principles, by complying operating and capital expenditure budgets each Board meeting.
The Board met ten with the Code as reported above.
Further for recommendation to the Board, and times during 2013. explanation of how the Main Principles have ensuring efficient management of been applied is set out below and, in the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors attend the connection with Directors remuneration, Board meetings, and form the Audit, The committee has formally identified in the Directors remuneration report.
Ted Wiggans as Director responsible They are responsible for scrutinising the for health and safety and Alex Bevis as performance of management and Director responsible for risk assessment.
determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors, and have a key role in appointing and, where required, removing Executive Directors.
com 37 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Summary of Board meeting attendance in 2013 Ten Board meetings were held in 2013.
Meetings Name attended Phil Lawler 10 10 Robin Williams 10 10 David Cheesman 10 10 Ian Dinwoodie 10 10 Alex Bevis 10 10 Richard Barham 9 10 Ramon Borrell 10 10 Ted Wiggans 10 10 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
Board committees Summary of committee membership: Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Committee Committee Committee Phil Lawler Yes Yes Yes Robin Williams Chairman Yes Yes David Cheesman Yes Chairman Chairman Ian Dinwoodie No No Yes Summary of committee meeting attendance in 2013: Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 4 6 4 Phil Lawler 4 4 6 6 4 4 Robin Williams 4 4 6 6 4 4 David Cheesman 4 4 6 6 4 4 Ian Dinwoodie N A N A 4 4 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
Conflicts of interest Following the changes made to the Companys Articles of Association to incorporate the provisions of section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 which gave Boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, any potential conflict of interest is approved by the Board in advance of any action or appointment that could result in a conflict of interest arising.
Each member of the Board is familiar with the procedure to follow in relation to conflicts of interest and the process is operated efficiently.
38 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Responsibilities Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary Governance responsibilities are: The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors to monitor the integrity of the financial of the Company.
The Chairman of the statements and announcements and committee, Robin Williams, is deemed by review significant financial reporting the Board to have recent and relevant judgements contained therein, as well financial experience as he is a qualified as financial and accounting policies Chartered Accountant, and has ten years and practices experience of advising public companies to keep under review the adequacy and followed by a further ten years as CEO effectiveness of internal controls and risk or Executive Director at the centre of management systems substantial public companies either to review procedures, systems and overseeing or working closely with controls for whistle blowing, fraud CFOs and Financial Controllers.
detection and bribery prevention to review, approve and monitor internal The Audit Committees terms of reference audit activities include all matters indicated by Disclosure to monitor and review the Groups and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK external auditors independence, Corporate Governance Code.
The written objectivity and effectiveness, and terms of reference of the committee to make recommendations to the Board are available on request from the on the appointment, remuneration Robin Williams Company Secretary.
and terms of engagement of the Chairman of the Audit Committee external auditor.
Please see the tables on page 38 for details of the Audit Committee members in the The Audit Committee is not responsible year and the number of Audit Committee for the identification of key risks and meetings attended.
The committee review the adequacy of arrangements meetings are also attended, by invitation, to mitigate those risks, which remains by the Group CEO, the Finance Director the responsibility of the main Board.
The and other senior financial management Audit Committee is required to report its as appropriate, as well as by the external findings to the Board at least annually, auditor for specific parts of the meeting.
identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, to make recommendations on the steps to be taken, and to ensure that the required actions are taken.
com 39 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Significant issues System audits and the ERP system Financial statements and reports The Audit Committee has a set agenda Following the implementation of the Reviewed the annual report and financial for each of its regular meetings, which Epicor ERP system in 2012, KPMG were statements, the half-yearly financial report is then augmented by specific matters engaged to perform process reviews and and as part of this review the Audit concerning the Company and in assessing internal audit procedures over a number Committee received a report from the appropriateness of the financial of specifically targeted areas.
The Audit the external auditor on their audit statements.
Key areas of focus during Committee reviewed potential and actual and review performed the year included: issues encountered, and the results of Reviewed legislative changes relating the completed audits in the year.
Planned to narrative reporting, including Legislative and tax changes procedures to be undertaken going GHG emissions statements and The Audit Committee considered the forward were proposed and agreed remuneration reports, patent box legislative changes that impact the by the Audit Committee.
and R&D expenditure credit Group 2013 financial statements relating Reviewed the effectiveness of to narrative reporting, including GHG Significant issues considered the Groups internal controls and emissions statements and remuneration Significant issues that have been considered disclosures made in the annual reports, patent box and R&D expenditure by the Audit Committee include revenue report and financial statements.
Potential issues in these areas recognition, inventory valuation, capitalisation were highlighted and discussed by the of internally generated intangible assets and Risk management Audit Committee.
These are also areas of focus for Reviewed fraud detection and the each significant change were reviewed, the external auditor, who report on these systems and controls for the prevention planned and actions agreed and taken, to matters to the Audit Committee.
of bribery successfully implement these modifications.
Assessed improvements planned relating Key activities to the identification, assessment and Royalty audits As a result of its work during the year, the monitoring of risk.
The results of completed royalty audits Audit Committee has concluded that it in the year were discussed by the Audit has acted in accordance with its terms of Internal audit Committee, including the required reference.
The Audit Committee terms of Agreed a schedule of the internally accounting treatments for the financial reference were updated in 2013, following and externally resourced internal audit statements.
The actions relating to the their annual review.
The Chairman of the activities, and reviewed the results of outcomes of completed audits and the Audit Committee will be available at the internal audit activities performed by ongoing royalty audits were agreed.
AGM to answer any questions about external resource the work of the committee.
Reviewed the internal financial controls and risk management systems The Audit Committee has performed Reviewed the compliance and whistleactions to discharge its responsibilities blowing policies during 2013, and its effectiveness was Reviewed the results of system reviewed as part of the overall annual processes reviews completed in the year.
The committee has carried out the activities described as follows: 40 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The committee meets with the Companys The independence and objectivity of External audit auditor at least twice a year.
The Chief the auditor is regularly considered by Reviewed and agreed the scope of the Executive and Finance Director, and other the committee taking into consideration audit work to be undertaken by the relevant managers as required, attend by relevant UK professional and regulatory auditor, and reviewed non-audit services invitation, except for a period of each meeting requirements.
The committee receives provided and the level of this compared where the committee members may meet an annual statement from the auditor with the audit services provided with the auditor without any member of the detailing their independence policies Agreed the fees to be paid to the Group management present.
and safeguards and confirming their external auditor in respect of their independence, taking into account relevant services rendered for the annual The committee is required to assess ethical guidance regarding the provision of audit and interim review the qualifications, expertise, resources, non-audit services by the external auditor.
Reviewed audit work performed on and independence of the external auditor, Under the standard rotation process, the significant risk areas, including those and the objectivity and effectiveness of the current audit engagement partner steps areas identified and discussed by the audit process.
The committee reviews the down this year, and a new audit partner external auditor in their report, and type of work, effectiveness of, and level of has been appointed for 2014. ensured the independence and objectivity fees charged by the auditor on an annual of the external auditor and reviewed the basis and recommends to the Board the The committee considers the effectiveness audit partner rotation requirement.
appointment, reappointment, term, of the external audit and the Groups remuneration, and terms of engagement relationship with the external auditor, External auditor of the external auditor.
Auditor objectivity Deloitte LLP, on an ongoing basis, and have Deloitte LLP have been the Companys and independence is safeguarded by the conducted a review of the effectiveness of auditor since 2009 and there has been committee monitoring fees paid to the the annual audit.
This review consisted of no tender held for audit services during auditor in respect of both audit and considering a number of key points together that time.
The committee considers that non-audit work, and approving all additional with the senior financial management of the the auditors knowledge of the Groups work performed by the external auditor.
Group, without the external auditor present, business and systems gained through Non-audit services include tax compliance and then discussing the evaluation with experience has contributed to the and advice services, and recruitment and the auditor.
The committee was able to effectiveness of the audit process.
conclude, on the basis of this exercise and The committee intends the Company its experience over the year, that the external to continue to comply fully with the FRC Note 6 to the consolidated financial audit process remained effective.
A further Audit Committees Guidance regarding statements includes disclosures of review will be carried out following the the frequency of audit tender.
The current the auditors remuneration for the year, completion of audit procedures on all Group audit engagement partner steps down this including an analysis of audit services, companies and reported on in next years year under the standard rotation process.
audit related services, and other nonannual report.
audit services under those headings The Audit Committee has noted that prescribed by law.
The committee there are no contractual obligations to monitors the level of non-audit fees in restrict the choice of external auditor relation to the audit fee for its bearing and has considered the likelihood of a on external auditor independence.
withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
com 41 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Governance Governance The Remuneration Committee is appointed The Nomination Committee is appointed by by the Board from the Non-Executive the Board from the Non-Executive Directors Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
of the committee is David Cheesman.
The Chairman of the committee is David The Chief Executive and Finance Director Cheesman.
The committee meets as attend meetings by invitation, except when required.
The written terms of reference their own remuneration package is being of the committee are available on request discussed.
The written terms of reference from the Company Secretary.
of the committee are available on request Responsibilities from the Company Secretary.
The Nomination Committees primary Responsibilities responsibilities are: The Remuneration Committees primary reviewing the size, structure, skills, responsibilities are: knowledge and composition of the Board to make recommendations to the Board formulating plans for succession for on the Groups policy for executive both Executive and Non-Executive remuneration, and review the ongoing Directors, and appropriateness and relevance of making recommendations to the the policy Board on the appointment of new David Cheesman to review the design of all share incentive Executive and Non-Executive Directors Chairman of the Remuneration and plans and oversee any major changes in and their reappointment following Nomination Committees employee benefit structures retirement by rotation.
to monitor the level and structure of Key issues and activities remuneration for Senior Managers, and The process adopted by the committee to determine the individual remuneration to identify a candidate for a specific vacancy packages on behalf of the Board for the is, in the first instance, to determine whether Executive Directors of the Group.
any individuals known to the committee Key issues and activities would be suitable for the role.
If no The committee has access to professional candidates can be identified through this advice, both inside and outside the process then an external search consultancy Company, in the furtherance of its duties.
Shortlisted candidates The committee has received information on are interviewed by members of the best practice and market rates for Directors committee and other Executive and remuneration from Deloitte LLP and PwC Non-Executive Directors as the committee LLP during the year, and guidance on best deems appropriate.
Once a suitable practice on adopting the new legislation.
candidate has been identified, the Chairman of the committee will recommend to the The Directors remuneration report sets out Board that the Company make a formal in more detail the committees policies and offer of employment to the candidate.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for reappointment every year and Directors appointed during the year are required to seek reappointment at the first AGM following their appointment.
42 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholders can access up-to-date Performance evaluation Group structure Company information from the Investor The Boards policy for individual Executive The Group has three main locations.
Relations section of the Xaar website at Director performance reviews is for a The head office functions, R&D, Western www.
formal and rigorous appraisal process sales, marketing function and business based on performance by the individual support functions are based in Cambridge, Constructive use of the Director against specific targets.
The Group also has two manufacturing Annual General Meeting Director performance is reviewed at least facilities: one in Jrflla, Sweden and the The Board uses the AGM to annually.
The Senior Independent Director, other in Huntingdon, UK.
The Group also communicate with investors and in consultation with the other Non-Executive has representatives in other global locations to encourage their participation.
Directors and taking into account the views including India, Brazil, Hong Kong and of the other Directors, appraises the the USA.
Risk management and performance of the Chairman.
The Executive Refer to page 10 for the Xaar internal control Directors, in consultation with the Chairman, business model.
The Groups policies relating to risk appraise the performance of the Nonmanagement and internal control can be Executive Directors.
Dialogue with institutional found in the Risk management section of When new Directors are appointed, they shareholders the strategic report on page 24. receive a complete and specifically bespoke The Directors seek to build on a mutual induction and training, aimed at introducing understanding of objectives between the Whistle-blowing, and anti-bribery and familiarising them to the management Group and its institutional shareholders by and corruption policies team, the Groups activities and processes, meeting at least twice per year, following The Company conducts its business and to give them the knowledge required interim and annual results, to provide an with the highest standards of integrity to effectively execute their role.
update on trading and obtain feedback.
and honesty at all times and expects its Additionally, the Group has hosted employees to maintain the same standards The Board reviewed both its own institutional investors at its Huntingdon in everything they do.
Employees are performance and the performance of facility during the year.
therefore required to report any wrongdoing the Board committees once during the by Xaar or its members of staff that falls The Groups financial public relations year through a questionnaire issued to all short of these principles.
The whistleadvisors give all investors and potential members of the Board.
The results were blowing, and anti-bribery and corruption investors, who have met with the Groups reviewed by the Board as a whole and it policies are available and communicated investor relations team, the opportunity to was concluded that individual Board to all employees via the Company intranet, provide feedback on the meetings.
The members are satisfied that the Board and all employees confirm in writing that feedback is coordinated by the financial PR works well and operates effectively in an they have read and comply with the advisors into a single document which is environment where there is constructive whistle-blowing and anti-bribery and circulated to all members of the Board.
challenge from the Non-Executive Directors.
All reported incidences Additionally, the Chief Executive and Finance They are also satisfied with the contribution of actual or suspected bribery or corruption Director provide feedback to the Board at the made by their colleagues and that Board will be promptly and thoroughly investigated meeting following shareholder meetings to committees operate properly and effectively.
The purpose ensure that the Board, and in particular the It is the Boards intention to review its own of the anti-bribery and corruption policy Non-Executive Directors, possess an performance, and that of its committees, is to protect Xaar and its employees from understanding of the views of the Companys at least once a year.
breaches of anti-bribery and corruption major shareholders.
Both the Chairman and laws.
Xaar does not tolerate any employee the Senior Independent Director are available or third party being involved in any level of to meet with shareholders as required.
Xaar is committed to complying with applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws in all countries in which it conducts business.
