Governance GOVERNANCE nominations Committee report Summary of activity The search for a suitable candidate to Sir Roger Carr succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman Chairman of the nominations ofthe Board was undertaken by the Committee Committee in 2013.
Throughout this process, the Committee was chaired by theBoards Senior Independent Director, nickRose.
The Committee was assisted inits process by the executive search consultants, Spencer Stuart.
During the search process, Mr Rose engaged with Members important stakeholders including major Sir Roger Carr Chairman shareholders and also consulted with all Paul Anderson members of the Board on a regular basis.
nick Rose The Committee nominated Sir Roger Carr Sir Richard Olver was chairman of the Committee throughout 2013 and was succeeded for appointment and he was duly appointed bySirRoger Carr on 1 February 2014.
Sir Peter Mason was a member of the Committee a non-executive director of the Company upto 8May 2013. with effect from 1 October 2013, and succeeded Sir Richard Olver as Chairman Governance on 1 February 2014.
Sir Roger serves as The nominations Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held nine meetings.
It is Chairman in a non-executive capacity and chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
The Chairman was independent when appointed was independent at the time of his tothe Board and the other two members of the Committee are independent non-executive appointment in accordance with Code directors in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Summary of responsibilities The Committee undertook a search for two Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, and making non-executive directors during the year.
The recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes Committee appointed the executive search Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates to fill any vacancies consultants, Zygos Partners, to assist for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors withthis activity.
This work resulted in the appointment of Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg Planning for the orderly succession of directors to the Board with effect from 8 May and 1 July 2013, Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate respectively.
Responsibility and Remuneration committees The Companys executive development andsuccession planning processes were reviewed by the Committee during 2013.
Following the announcement that Linda Hudson, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Companys US operations, would be retiring this year, the Committee worked with the Chief Executive and the BAE Systems, Inc. board to identify the right candidate to replace her.
As a result of this, Jerry DeMuro, a former senior executive at General Dynamics, was appointed to succeed Ms Hudson as President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. and a member of the BAE Systems plc Board with effect from 1 February 2014.
Spencer Stuart provide other recruitment services to the Company.
The recruitment servicesthat Zygos Partners provided directly to the Chairman and nominations Committee in respect of non-executive recruitment were the onlyservices they provided to the Company during the year.
Bothfirms are signatories to the Voluntary Code ofConduct for Executive Recruitment Firms asrecommended by the Davies Report.
