STRATEGIC REPORT Business model page 9 GOVErnanCE Summary Ever y company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company.
UK Corporate Governance Code Board appointments The above changes to the Board had a As required by the new regulations, the The Nominations Committee is responsible negative impact on its gender diversity.
At directors remuneration policy as detailed in for managing the orderly succession of present, 18% of directors are women 2013 this Annual Report will be put to shareholders appointments to the Board.
However, the Board remains committed for their approval at this years Annual General thisrole, it reviews the balance of skills and to an aspirational target of at least 25% of its Meeting.
experience on the Board regularly, and members being women by 2015.
See Remuneration Committee report on manages the process of identifying suitable page80 See Corporate governance report on page 69 candidates for appointment.
Corporate responsibility Accountability See Nominations Committee report on page 79 In 2013, five years after the publication The uK government introduced new ofLord Woolfs Report on ethical business During 2013, the Board appointed Sir Roger requirements for company reporting during conduct in BAE Systems plc, the Board Carr to succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman.
These changes provide an opportunity andthe Corporate Responsibility Committee The search for a suitable candidate to succeed for boards to improve the quality of reporting both reviewed the status of ethical business Sir Richard was led by the Nominations on their stewardship of the company.
In line matters across the Company.
It was Committee, which for this purpose was with the new requirements, the Board has recognised that a great deal had been chaired by the Companys Senior Independent taken the opportunity to revise its reporting achieved in that period through positive Director, Nick Rose.
He engaged with key with greater emphasis on producing a focused leadership from the Board downwards.
stakeholders, including major shareholders, analysis of the performance of the Company However, it was recognised that the Board throughout the process.
In addition, it has needed to remain vigilant in its oversight considered the requirement in the uK Sir Roger Carr is an experienced company ofethical business conduct matters so as Corporate Governance Code for narrative director, having served as chairman on a toensure that standards are maintained reports to be fair, balanced and number of large listed company boards, overthe long term and that the Company understandable, and how directors can mostrecently as chairman of Centrica plc.
continues to be at the forefront in this area.
ensure that they are in a position to make a Atpresent, he is also deputy chairman and The Corporate Responsibility Committee timely and well-informed determination on this senior independent director of the Court of agreed additional activities to help secure matter.
The Board has reviewed the process the Bank of England and a member of the uK alasting legacy of leadership in the area of for the drafting of the Annual Report and the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
assurance process used to verify its accuracy accordance with the requirements of the uK and completeness.
All Board members have Corporate Governance Code, Sir Roger was See Corporate Responsibility Committee report participated in reviewing and commenting on on page 77 independent as at the date of his appointment.
drafts of the report to help ensure that the Board performance evaluation Jerry DeMuro was appointed to the Board on final publication meets the fair, balanced Each year, the Board uses an external facilitator 1 February 2014 having succeeded Linda andunderstandable requirement.
to assist in reviewing its effectiveness.
Hudson as President and Chief Executive Remuneration Directors discuss the feedback from this Officer of the Groups uS business.
Mr DeMuro After a wide-ranging debate in 2013 that process and agree objectives aimed at is an experienced uS executive who has engaged many stakeholders, the uK ensuring that the Board remains effective worked in the national security, technology government enacted regulations that have andat the forefront in developing and applying and aerospace industry for over 30 years.
changed significantly the requirements best practice in the boardroom.
A review of Most recently, he served as executive vice concerning directors remuneration and the performance against 2013 objectives is president and corporate vice president of role that shareholders play in agreeing a policy presented opposite.
General Dynamics Information Systems and on directors pay and the maximum payable.
Code compliance The policy agreed and proposed by the The Company was compliant with the Two independent non-executive directors, Boards Remuneration Committee is the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance IanTyler and Chris Grigg, also joined the result of a detailed review that began with a Code throughout 2013 and the Board has Board during the year.
wide-ranging discussion and analysis of what applied its principles in its governance it wished to achieve regarding executive pay In line with best governance practice, all the and the various remuneration structures structure and operations.
members of the Board will seek re-election thatcould be employed.
The views of the byshareholders at the Companys Annual See Corporate governance report on page 69 Companys major shareholders were sought General Meeting.
64 BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, aerospace and security company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance Customer Focus | Programme Execution | Financial Performance | Responsible Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Our Strategy Support our customers in safeguarding their vital interests Inspire and develop our people to drive our success Drive shareholder value by improving financial performance and competitive positions across the business Strategic Actions Improve pro t and Grow our Cyber, Grow Electronic Drive value Increase our cash generation Intelligence Systems from our Platform international and Security and Services business business positions Integrated Business Plans As part of its annual strategy review, the Board The Nominations Committee and the Board reviewed reviewed the significant risks that could affect the the Groups management resource plans, including achievement of the strategy and business plan.
the strategy and actions being pursued to achieve greater diversity across the Groups workforce.
See Group Strategic Framework on page 7 2013 objectives 2013 achievements 2014 objectives Strategy n Continue the strategic review of the n The Board undertook a detailed review n Focus on developing a more detailed business portfolio, focusing on the of the business portfolio at a strategy strategic understanding of the services businesses.
meeting held in June and again in Companys businesses and markets.
November as part of its annual n Work with the executive team in the n Ensure that the strategy for the Integrated Business Planning process.
development of a comprehensive Companys Applied Intelligence business narrative of the Companys strategy.
n The Company developed its strategic is optimised to access fully the growth narrative further during the year.
potential of the cyber security market.
Succession planning n The Nominations Committee to n Ian Tyler and Chris Grigg were appointed n Engage with all directors on executive complete the recruitment of two to the Board as non-executive directors.
additional non-executive directors and Sir Roger Carr was appointed to succeed n Increase the levels of diversity and identify a world-class candidate to Sir Richard Olver as Chairman.
bench strength in key roles and make succeed Sir Richard Olver as Chairman.
progress against the Companys diversity objectives.
Risk and risk management n The Board to continue reviewing the n The Board to continue to review cyber n The Board spent time with the level of risk it is willing to take in security protection, the management Companys Chief Information Officer achieving its strategic objectives.
ofrisk in major programmes and crisis reviewing cyber security protection.
Directors also reviewed risk management on a major programme and Board communications were included as part of a crisis management exercise.
n Ensure that the Company remains at the n The Board and Corporate Responsibility forefront of developing and embedding Committee reviewed responsible best practice in responsible business business conduct and agreed a number behaviour.
of actions, including a survey of employee opinions, similar to that undertaken by the Ethical Leadership Group in 2011.
Board development n Enhance the Boards strategic n One of the Boards meetings in 2013 n Develop a wider understanding by all understanding of geo-political and was held in India.
Meetings with directors of the use and management economic risks in international markets.
members of our local advisory board ofcommercial offset arrangements.
and local industrial partners were used n use Board visits to promote n use site visits by individual to develop directors understanding of understanding of markets and the non-executive directors to help develop the market.
business development opportunities a deeper understanding of the Company.
FOr a mOrE DEtailED rEViEW OF GOVErnanCE, GO tO PaGES 69 tO 81 OF tHE GOVErnanCE SECtiOn BAE SyStEmS ANNuAL REPORT 2013 65 GOVERNANCE WhAt yOu Will fiNd iN this sECtiON BOARd Of NOmiNAtiONs COmmittEE 67 diRECtORs 79 REPORt Biographical details of each director, A report describing how the Nominations including their skills and experience, Committee has discharged its andother appointments.
C ORPORAtE GOVERNANCE R EmuNERAtiON COmmittEE 69 REPORt 80 REPORt A report on compliance with the UK A report by the Chairman of the Corporate Governance Code, including Remuneration Committee summarising how the Company has applied the governance arrangements, key decisions principles in the Code.
and the context in which they were made.
Audit COmmittEE diRECtORs REmuNERAtiON 74 REPORt 82 POliCy A report describing how the Audit The policy in respect of directors Committee has discharged its remuneration as proposed by the Board responsibilities.
for approval by shareholders at the AnnualGeneral Meeting.
CORPORAtE REsPONsiBility A NNuAl REmuNERAtiON 77 COmmittEE REPORt 92 REPORt A report describing how the Corporate Information on the remuneration paid Responsibility Committee has discharged tothe directors during 2013, including its responsibilities.
asingle total figure in respect of each director.
