Governance GOVERNANCE Business model page 9 CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE REPORt times, and also internal policies in respect Independence Reporting within the Company is structured of the standards of behaviour and conduct The Board considers all of the non-executive sothat key issues are escalated through the mandated by the Board.
directors, with the exception of the Chairman, management team, ultimately to the Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK ifappropriate.
The operational Framework on pages 29 and 30 of this report, you will Corporate Governance Code the Code.
each provides a common framework across the find details of the processes the Company of these directors has been identified on Company for operational and financial has put in place to manage risk.
For the pages 67 and 68 of this report.
controls, and is reviewed on a regular basis Board, the key requirements are that the bythe Board.
The business policies and The Board appointed Nick Rose to succeed Company has robust processes to identity, processes detailed within the operational Sir peter Mason as its Senior Independent evaluate and manage risk, and that the Framework draw on global best practice and Director with effect from 21 January 2013. directors have visibility of the major risks.
their application is mandated across the organisation.
lifecycle Management lCM is During the year, Mr Symon was appointed a Risks are identified on a bottom-up basis as such a process, and promotes the application non-executive director of Thomas Cook Group part of the Companys operational Assurance of best practice programme execution and plc of which Ms Green is Chief executive Statement oAS process.
This process is facilitates continuous improvement across the officer and executive director.
The directors mandated across the Group, and requires that Group.
It considers the whole life of projects have examined the effect of this appointment the heads of all businesses and functions from inception to delivery into service and on their roles as non-executive directors of identify their key risks.
As part of this process, eventual disposal, and its application is BAe Systems plc and are satisfied that at this an assessment is made of the probability of critical to the Groups capability in delivering time Mr Symon and Ms Green are the risk arising and its potential impact on projects to schedule and cost.
independent for the purposes of paragraph theGroups business plan.
The directors will review owner who is responsible for preparation and Further key processes are Integrated Business this position annually to ensure the passage implementation of plans aimed at mitigating planning IBp, Quarterly Business Reviews of time and deeper engagement in either the risk.
QBR and Total performance leadership business does not undermine the Tpl.
The IBp, approved annually by the The key financial and non-financial risks independence criteria.
Board, results in a five-year business plan identified by the businesses from the risk foreach business, together with detailed assessment processes are collated and The Companys Articles of Association require near-term budgets.
The QBRs evaluate reviewed by the executive Committee to that all new directors seek re-election to the progress against the IBp, and business identify those issues where the cumulative Board at the following Annual General Meeting performance against objectives, measures risk, or possible reputational impacts, could AGM.
In addition, the Board has agreed that and milestones.
Tpl drives business success be significant.
in compliance with the Code, all directors by linking individual goals to those of the shall seek re-election on an annual basis.
Management responsibility for the organisation, enabling employees to Risk management and internal control management of the Groups most significant understand how their own success contributes The Board has conducted a review of the non-financial risks is determined by the to the success of the whole business.
effectiveness of the Groups system of risk executive Committee.
The oAS and Whilst the quality of the control processes management and internal control processes, Non-financial Risk registers are reviewed isfundamental to the overall control including financial, operational and regularly by the executive Committee to environment, the consistent application of compliance controls and risk management monitor the status and progression of these processes is equally important.
The systems, in accordance with the Code and mitigation plans, and these key risks are consistent application of world-class control Turnbull guidance as revised.
reported to the Board on a regular basis.
processes is a key management objective.
BAe Systems has developed a system of The Audit Committee is responsible for The Company is committed to the protection internal control that was in place throughout reviewing the ongoing effectiveness of the of its assets, which include human, 2013 and to the date of this report, that Companys risk management processes as intellectual and physical property, and financial encompasses, amongst other things, the part of its review of the effectiveness of resources, through an effective risk policies, processes, tasks and behaviours internal controls.
Also, twice a year, the Audit management process, underpinned where that, taken together, seek to: Committee receives reports on the output appropriate by insurance.
from the oAS process, details of the changes facilitate the effective and efficient The Internal Audit team, which is managed in the risks identified by it and the status of operation of the Company: independently from management functions, mitigation plans.
The Corporate Responsibility reviews the risk identification procedures Committee undertakes a similar role in respect enable it to respond appropriately to andcontrol processes implemented by the of the Non-financial Risk Register.
The Board significant operational, financial, Company.
It provides assurance as to the receives reports from the chairmen of these compliance and other risks that it faces in operation and validity of the systems of two committees, providing details of the work carrying out its business: internal control through a programme of they have undertaken.
assist in ensuring that internal and external cyclical reviews making recommendations each year, the Board specifically reviews reporting is accurate and timely, and based forbusiness and control improvements therisks identified by the risk management on the maintenance of proper records asrequired.
This is aimed at providing the supported by robust  Board with an appreciation of the key risks processes: and within the business and oversight of how assist in ensuring that the Company complies theyare being managed.
with applicable laws and regulations at all BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 69 GOVERNANCE CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE REPORt The Board has delegated to the Audit A separate oAS is required to be completed The responsibility for internal control Committee responsibility for reviewing in detail by the most senior BAe Systems employee procedures with joint ventures and other the effectiveness of the Companys system responsible for joint ventures and BAeSystems collaborations rests, on the whole, with the ofinternal controls.
Having undertaken such employees on the boards of these companies senior management of those operations.
reviews, the Audit Committee reports to the are required to exert such influence as the Going concern Board on its findings so that the Board as a Company may have to encourage the adoption The Groups business activities, together whole can take a view on this matter.
In order of a governance structure that is substantially withthe factors likely to affect its future to assist the Audit Committee and the Board equivalent to that mandated for wholly owned development, performance and position are in this review, the Company has developed or controlled parts of the Group.
set out in the Segmental performance section theoAS process.
The Audit and the Corporate Responsibility on pages 36 to 61.
The financial position of The oAS process is formed of two parts: a committees review the output from the oAS the Group, including information on cash flow, self-assessment of compliance with mandated process with the head of Internal Audit.
It is can be found in the Group financial policies and processes: and a report showing also shared in detail with the Companys performance section on pages 32 to 35. key risks for each business and function.
principal risks are detailed on pages 106 to Managed by the Groups Internal Audit 111.
In addition, the financial statements The overall responsibility for the system of function, an oAS return must be completed include, amongst other things, notes on internal control within BAe Systems rests with every six months by each operational and finance costs page 135, loans and overdrafts the directors of the Company.
Responsibility functional business head, recording their page 160, and financial risk management, for establishing and operating detailed control formal review against such matters as including treasury policies on interest rate, procedures lies with the line leaders of each compliance with law and regulation, ethical liquidity, credit and currency risks page 175. operating business.
business conduct, financial controls, risk After making due enquiries, the directors have management, compliance with business In line with any system of internal control, the a reasonable expectation that the Group has planning processes, health and safety, policies and processes that are mandated in adequate resources to continue operational conflicts of interest, delegated authorities, the operational Framework are designed to existence for the foreseeable future.
For this appointment of advisers and product safety.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure reason they continue to adopt the going Where simple yes no answers are not to achieve business objectives, and can only concern basis in preparing the accounts.
appropriate, an assessment of compliance provide reasonable and not absolute assurance isrequired to be made against structured against material misstatement or loss.
Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2013 Corporate Audit Responsibilty Nominations Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee paul Anderson Sir Roger Carr Harriet Green Chris Grigg linda Hudson Ian King peter lynas Sir peter Mason lee McIntire Sir Richard olver paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Carl Symon Ian Tyler Meetings attended Meetings eligible to attend but not attended 70 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE Applying the principles of the UKs Corporate The Board Charter details the separate and Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for Governance Code distinct roles of the Chairman and the Chief the success of the Company, given the size The following report details how the Board executive, and also those of the Senior and complexity of its operations, all but the hasapplied the main principles in the Independent Director and Company Secretary.
most important matters are managed on a Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate It also states that the following matters are delegated basis by the Chief executive and Governance Code the Code, as required reserved specifically for the Board: the executives working for him.
The Board bythe UK listing Rules.
appoints the Chief executive and monitors 1.
A pproving the Companys vision, values, hisperformance in leading the Company, principles of ethical conduct, delegated andproviding operational and performance Leadership authorities and overall governance management in delivering the agreed strategy.
An effective board collectively The Board and its committees monitor responsible for the long-term success 2.
A pproving all financial and commercial theapplication of values, standards and ofthe company matters that it has reserved for its processes.
This includes a range of activities decision.
such as the formal review of the effectiveness A clear division of responsibilities at of internal controls.
To ensure that thehead of the company between the 3.
A pproval of the Companys strategy and non-executive directors can constructively running of the board and the executive.
challenge and help develop proposals on No one individual should have unfettered 4.
A pproval of the Companys Annual Report strategy, the Board has adopted a process powers of decision and Accounts, and the preliminary and ofreviewing the development of strategy and interim statements.
The chairman is responsible for the formally approving the agreed strategy for leadership of the board and ensuring its theCompany on an annual basis.
A pproval of any distributions to effectiveness in all aspects of its role the Board members were provided with shareholders, including the approval of opportunities to engage in strategy Non-executive directors should anyinterim dividend payments and any development through informal meetings and constructively challenge and help develop recommendations to shareholders workshops as well as formal Board meetings.
proposals on strategy concerning final dividends.
A pproval of any significant changes to Effectiveness The Companys governance structure is based accounting policies or practices.
Principles on the leadership principles in the Code.
The Board and committees having an 7.
Appointment or removal of any director core activities of the Board and its committees appropriate balance of skills, experience, orthe Company Secretary.
are documented and planned on an annual independence and knowledge of the basis, and this forms the basic structure 8.
A pproval of all circulars, prospectuses and company to enable them to discharge within which the Board operates.
The Board other documents sent to shareholders their respective duties and has adopted a document, the Board Charter, except for documents of a routine nature.
responsibilities effectively in which there is a statement of governance 9.
A pproving the issuing and allotment of principles that reflect principles contained in A formal, rigorous and transparent shares, changes to the capital structure the Code, and covers the following: procedure for the appointment of new of the Company, its legal status as a directors Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: public company, the listing of its shares All directors to be able to allocate and its name.
Performance monitoring the performance sufficient time to the company to ofthe Group and also evaluating its own 10.
R ecommending to shareholders the discharge their responsibilities effectively performance: appointment, re-appointment or removal All directors to receive induction on of the Companys auditors.
Standards and values setting standards joining and should regularly update and andvalues to guide the affairs of the Group: 11.
F orming committees of the Board and refresh skills and knowledge approving their terms of reference.
Oversight ensuring an effective system The board should be supplied in a timely ofinternal controls is in place, ensuring 12.
A pproval of the Board Charter including manner with information in a form and thatthe Board receives timely and accurate this schedule of reserved matters and ofa quality appropriate to enable it to information on the performance of the Group the operational Framework a document discharge its duties and the proper delegation of authority: and detailing the Companys vision, values, The board should undertake a formal delegated authorities and overall People ensuring the Group is managed andrigorous annual evaluation of its governance structure.
byindividuals with the necessary skills and performance, and that of its committees experience, and that appointments to the and individual directors Board are managed effectively.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject tocontinued satisfactory performance BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 71 GOVERNANCE CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE REPORt The Chairman, with the assistance of the Succession planning is used by the Board to For a number of years, the Boards annual Chief executive and Company Secretary, is deliver two key responsibilities, firstly to ensure effectiveness evaluation has been undertaken responsible for ensuring that directors are that the Group is managed by executives with by an external facilitator, Sheena Crane.
She is supplied with information in a timely manner the necessary skills, experience and an experienced board performance consultant, that is in a form and of a quality appropriate to knowledge, and secondly to ensure that the whose only interest with BAe Systems is her enable them to discharge their duties.
In the Board itself has the right balance of individuals work with the Board.
She was appointed to normal course of business, such information to be able to effectively discharge its perform this work in consultation with the is provided by the Chief executive in a regular responsibilities.
The Nominations Committee Nominations Committee.
The evaluation report to the Board that includes information has specific responsibilities in this area but the process is based on the facilitator interviewing on operational matters, strategic Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing each of the directors and recording their views developments, reports on the performance the development of management resources in on how the Board and its committees work, ofGroup operations, financial performance the Group with the aim of ensuring it has the and on the performance of individual directors.
relative to the business plan, business individuals with the right skills to meet the Feedback on Board performance is presented development, corporate responsibility and needs of an increasingly complex and global to a meeting of the Board, which agrees investor relations.
The procedures for the appointment actions and objectives for the following year of non-executive and executive directors are based on the information the facilitator detailed in the Nominations Committee report.
provides and the conclusions that the Accountability Boardderives from this.
Principles Following review by the Nominations and The board to present a balanced and Corporate Responsibility committees, the Individual directors are also subject to annual understandable assessment of the Board adopted the statement shown below performance evaluation, and the Chairman companys position and prospects toact as a guide to future Board succession meets with each director and provides planning activity and to make a clear public feedback on a one-to-one basis.
Committee The board is responsible for determining statement of its support for greater diversity chairmen also receive feedback on committee the nature and extent of the significant in the boardroom.
Feedback on the Chairmans risks it is willing to take in achieving its performance is provided directly by the strategic objectives.
The board should The Board has an aspirational target of facilitator to the Senior Independent Director, maintain sound risk management and atleast 25% of the Board being women who discusses this with other non-executive internal control systems by2015.
directors before holding a one-to-one with the The board should establish formal and Chairman.
Subject to continued satisfactory In seeking candidates for appointment to transparent arrangements for considering performance, directors seek re-election on the Board, the Nominations Committee how they should apply the corporate anannual basis.
willonly engage the services of search reporting and risk management and consultants who have open and inclusive on appointment, all non-executive directors internal control principles, and for recruitment processes that draw from an are advised of the likely time commitments maintaining an appropriate relationship appropriately diverse pool of candidates.
and are asked to seek approval from the with the companys auditor Nominations Committee if they wish to The Board will report progress against takeon additional external appointments.
targets andactions taken in the Annual Through this report and, as required, through Theability of individual directors to allocate Report andAccounts.
other periodic financial statements, the Board sufficient time to the discharge of their is committed to providing shareholders with a There are currently two women on the Board responsibilities is, where necessary, clear assessment of the Companys position 2013 three, 18% 2013 27% of the total considered as part of the directors annual and prospects.
There are two women on the evaluation process overseen by the Chairman.
by the Board for the application of risk executive Committee 2013 three, 17% of its An induction programme isagreed for all new management and internal control principles total membership 2013 25%, and 20% of the directors aimed at ensuring that they are able are detailed on page 69.
The Board has Groups employees are women 2013 20%.
to develop anunderstanding and awareness delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of of the Companys core processes, its people Further information on diversity can be found the management of the relationship with the andbusinesses.
In addition, as part of the on page 114.
Companys auditors, further details of which induction process, new directors will typically can be found in the Audit Committee report visit the Groups principal operations in order on page 74. to meet employees, and gain an understanding of the Groups products and services.
ongoing training is provided for the Board and individual directors as required.
72 BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE The Company has a well-developed investor Remuneration relations programme managed by the Chief Principles executive, Group Finance Director and levels of remuneration should be Investor Relations Director.
In addition, the sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Chairman is available to meet with major directors of the quality required to run the shareholders and is in regular contact with company successfully, but a company them so as to keep them informed of progress should avoid paying more than is on corporate governance matters.
In order to necessary for this purpose.
A significant assist in developing an understanding of the proportion of executive directors views of major shareholders, each year the remuneration should be structured so Company commissions a survey of investors asto link rewards to corporate and undertaken by external consultants.
The results individual performance of the survey are presented to the Board.
There should be a formal and transparent The Company maintains a comprehensive procedure for developing policy on Investor Relations website that provides, executive remuneration, and for fixing amongst other things, information on theremuneration packages of individual investing in BAe Systems and copies of directors.
No director should be involved thepresentation materials used for key in deciding his or her own remuneration shareholder presentations.
This can be accessed via the Companys website, The Board has delegated to the www.
The Companys AGM  responsibility provides all shareholders with the opportunity foragreeing remuneration policy, and the to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders individual remuneration of the executive either electronically via the Companys directors, the Chairman, members of the website or by post.
All resolutions detailed in executive Committee and the Company the Notice of Meeting are voted on by way of a Secretary see Remuneration Committee poll so as to ensure that all votes are counted report on pages 80 and 81.
The Committee on the basis of one vote for every share held.
isformed exclusively of independent The result of the voting on all resolutions is non-executive directors.
published on the Companys website.
Relations with shareholders Principles There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation BAE SyStEmS ANNUAl RepoRT 2013 73
