GOVERNANCE Audit committee report Dear Shareholders, The composition of the Audit Committee Nick Rose changed during the year when, as part of the Chairman of the Audit Committee Boards succession planning strategy, Ian Tyler was appointed as a member of the Board andAudit Committee on Sir Peter Masons retirement from the Board in May 2013.
Ian is a chartered accountant and until recently served for eight years as Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc, an integrated infrastructure Members services group with operations in over 80 Nick Rose Chairman countries.
Along with his international operating Paula Rosput Reynolds and financial skills, Ian brings a wealth of Ian Tyler experience in longterm contracting, and is well placed to add valuable insight to the Governance Committees deliberations.
The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2013 and held six meetings, plus one joint meeting with the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
All its members are independent in Financial reporting accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Sir Peter Mason served as a member of the The Committee reviews all significant issues Committee until 8 May 2013 when he retired from the Board: Ian Tyler joined the Committee concerning the financial statements.
The on the same date on his appointment to the Board: and Nick Rose and Paula Rosput principal matters we considered concerning Reynolds served throughout the year.
the 2013 financial statements were: Summary of responsibilities Goodwill: We considered an analysis of Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, goodwill held on the Groups balance sheet andprocedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk in respect of a number of past major transactions and assumptions made in Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and Interim Management respect of the relevant cashgenerating Statements units to which goodwill has been attributed.
The methodology for impairment testing Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function used by the Group is set out in note 11 to Approving an annual programme of internal audit work the Group accounts on page 146.
The Group has incurred a goodwill impairment Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Auditors of 865m relating to the US Intelligence Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit programme and reviewing the output &Security and Land & Armaments businesses as a result of an increase in Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review theGroups posttax weighted average Assessing the effectiveness of the audit process costof capital and an estimate of reductions in US defence spending.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the Auditors to supply Pensions: The Groups retirement benefit nonauditservices obligation is significant 3.5bn compared The Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by the Board, with the Groups net assets 3.4bn.
We areavailable on the Companys website.
challenged the key assumptions supporting the valuation of the retirement benefit Attendance at meetings obligation.
This included a comparison of The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings: the discount and inflation rates used against Chief Executive: Group Finance Director: and Director, Financial Control and Reporting: externally derived data.
We reviewed the methodology used to allocate a proportion Internal Audit Director: of the retirement benefit obligation to equity other representatives from businesses and functions, as appropriate: and accounted investments and other participating employers, and concluded the senior KPMG partner responsible for the BAE Systems audit, together with other thatthis was appropriate with reference senioraudit partners, as appropriate.
toagreements between the Company and those companies.
We also considered the The Committee holds private sessions with the Auditors and Internal Audit Director without adequacy of disclosures in respect of the management present, and the Committee Chairman meets privately with both internal and sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these external audit.
Reporting to the Board The principal accounting policy change in The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key issues discussed 2013 was the adoption of International at the Committees meetings.
Accounting Standard 19 relating to Employee Benefits.
In particular, we reviewed the impact that it would have on pension 74 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013 Governance GOVERNANCE liability disclosures and the resultant our review of internal controls has also Auditor independence Non-Audit Services requirement to restate earnings per share encompassed a review of the reports relating Policy for 2012 to ensure that a meaningful to the sixmonthly operational Assurance comparison could be made with 2013 Statements, which are submitted by each The Committee has a formal policy governing earnings.
Further details of the accounting business or function as a mandated policy the engagement of the Auditors to provide policy change can be found on page 126. under the Groupwide operational Framework, nonaudit services which we review on an and controls reports and audit reports from annual basis.
ThePolicy prohibits certain Recognition of profit and provisioning: We both internal and external auditors.
activities from being undertaken by the reviewed key estimates and judgements prior Auditors such as bookkeeping and work to publication of the financial statements.
A key controls focus for the Committee is the relating to the preparation of accounting our review included the key estimates and controls environment surrounding Lifecycle records and financial statements that will assumptions applied in determining the Management LCM, LCM being integral to the ultimately be subject to external audit: financial status of the more significant successful execution of the Groups projects financial information system design and programmes, including Saudi Typhoon and programmes, and of particular importance implementation: internal auditing: and any aircraft, Radford Army Ammunition Plant in the early identification of programme risk work where a mutuality of interest is created and Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
and the determination of profit recognition or that could compromise the independence provisioning.
We have discussed the outputs taxation: We reviewed the Groups tax ofthe Auditors.
The Policy also places of general financial and LCM controls testing, strategy as set out on page 120. on a restrictions on the employment of former and any required improvement actions, with twiceyearly basis, we reviewed the Groups employees of the Auditors.
management, and internal and external audit, tax charge and tax provisions.
with a view to ensuring the ongoing robustness Recognising that the Auditors are best The Committee agreed the parameters of, of programme execution and risk mitigation.
placed to undertake certain work of a and reviewed a report to support, the going nonaudit nature, the Policy permits the External audit concern statement.
provision of AuditRelated Services and our former KPMG audit engagement partner, An intrinsic requirement of a groups financial Permitted NonAudit Services up to limits Tony Cates, rotated off the BAE Systems statements is for the report and accounts to that are preapproved by the Committee, audit account at the conclusion of the 2012 be fair, balanced and understandable.
The with specific approvals required beyond such audit having completed his permitted tenure of coordination and review of the Groupwide five years, and was succeeded by Ian Starkey.
A copy of the policy input into the Annual Report is a sizeable The latter attended a number of audit closure is available on the Companys website.
exercise performed within an exacting meetings and Committee meetings prior to Details of fees payable to the Auditors are timeframe which runs alongside the formal the handover to ensure a smooth transition.
In 2013, nonaudit audit process undertaken by the Auditors.
Continuity and consistency of audit quality fees represented 24% of the audit fee.
The The process to ensure that the Committee, areimportant, however the Committee is also principal nonaudit services provided by the and then the Board, are satisfied with the mindful of ongoing debate about the operation Auditors related to tax compliance and overall fairness, balance and clarity of the of the audit market, audit tenure and the advisory services, and the interim review.
document has been underpinned by: longevity of audit firm relationships with the companies they audit.
KPMG Audit Plc, and comprehensive guidance issued to their legacy predecessors, have been in place contributors at operational level: as the Companys Auditors since 1981 a verification process dealing with the without retender and it is our present factual content of the reports: intention to initiate an audit retendering process not later than 2017 prior to the comprehensive reviews undertaken at rotation of the current audit engagement different levels in the Group that aim to partner.
The Committee will keep this ensure consistency and overall balance: and retendering timeframe under review and comprehensive review by the directors willuse our regular reviews of auditor andthe senior team.
effectiveness to assess whether an earlier date for a retender would be desirable.
There Internal control and risk management are no contractual obligations that would Effective management of risks and restrict the selection of a different auditor.
opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of The Committees policy is to initiate an annual sustainable shareholder value, protection of review of audit effectiveness at the conclusion its reputation and meeting the requirement of of each yearend audit and to supplement this good corporate governance.
The way in which with an indepth review of audit effectiveness the Company manages risk is set out on pages on a triennial basis.
29 and 30, with the principal risks facing the Having assessed the output of the annual Group set out on pages 106 to 111. review undertaken at the close of the 2013 The Committee has reviewed the ongoing yearend audit, taken account of the effectiveness of the Companys risk Committees own interactions with KPMG management processes as part of its wider throughout the year, and satisfied itself on the review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
continuing independence of the Auditors, the BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013 75 GOVERNANCE AUDIt COMMIttEE REPORt Committee proposed to the Board that it Other key areas of work undertaken by the Meetings with business unit management recommend that shareholders support the Committee in 2013 in2013 appointment of KPMG at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The review was based on During the year, the Committee has: The Committee places importance on direct aGroupwide evaluation at management contact with local operational and financial reviewed and challenged the external andfunctional level, together with input from management as these meetings enable us audit plan to gauge whether it was each of the Audit Committee members.
to gaina more indepth view of the strategic appropriately focused: Theevaluation covered areas such as and operational issues pertaining to those understanding of the Groups risks and businesses, an overview of their controls considered the accounting, financial opportunities to facilitate the development environment, and a better understanding control and audit issues reported by the ofan appropriate audit plan: the robustness oftheirrisk management processes.
Auditors that flowed from the audit work: of audit processes: objectivity: the quality In 2013, we focused our attention on the ofcommunications: and the ability to reviewed the confirmation and information GroupsCyber & Intelligence segment, the providea seamless service across differing received from KPMG on the arrangements underlying businesses in which have different jurisdictions.
We provided feedback to the that it has in place to safeguard its risk profiles from those in the Platforms & Auditors from the evaluation, discussed independence and objectivity: Services businesses.
The Committee met areaswhere enhancements could be made agreed the rotation sequence for key locally with senior management in both the and will assess how these actions have been audit partners below the lead audit Intelligence & Security business in the US incorporated into the 2014 audit plan when engagement partner: and at Applied Intelligence in the UK.
Issues the latter has been formulated.
discussed by local management included: reviewed and agreed the audit fee: We will undertake our triennial review later in2014 which will encompass management Intelligence & Security US reviewed and discussed on a quarterly Challenges of growing the business in a performance evaluation, an independent basis the nature and level of nonaudit marketwhere the impact of Sequestration client service review, future audit strategy fees, and undertaken an annual review wasunknown: and andfee benchmarking.
ofthe NonAudit Services Policy which weconcluded was still appropriate maturity of assurance processes over Internal Audit seepage 75 : internal financial controls, including Internal Audit plays an important role in internal audit work.
assessing the effectiveness of internal reviewed the effectiveness of the controls by a programme of reviews based Companys helpline procedures in respect Applied Intelligence UK ona continuing assessment of business of the reporting of possible accounting, Progress on the implementation of an riskacross the Group.
financial control or other financial Enterprise Resource Planning ERP irregularities, and concluded that the system to integrate business information The annual internal audit programme is procedures continue to work effectively: management systems: agreed jointly by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees to ensure that reviewed on a twiceyearly basis the maturity of assurance processes over theoverarching internal audit programme procedures for the identification, internal financial controls, including includes the assessment of the effectiveness assessment and reporting of risk: and internal audit work: and of policies and processes relating to key considered corporate governance and areas of ethical and reputational risk, as well enhancements made to the business accounting developments.
The Committee considered reportingprocesses under the Groups the output from the 2013 annual internal operational Assurance Statement.
audit programme of assurance work on a sixmonthly basis.
An External Quality Assessment EQA of the Internal Audit function was undertaken in 2013 by  LLP PwC which considered all key aspects of the functions operation.
The review was positive with PwC confirming that the function operated in conformance with the International Standards on Internal Auditing.
PwC also commended the Board, Audit Committee and senior executives on the strength of their support for the Internal Audit function.
Recommendations to enhance effectiveness further were made and are being addressed through the normal planning process for the Internal Audit function.
Nick Rose Chairman Audit Committee 76 BAE SyStEMS ANNUAL REPoRT 2013
