Corporate governance report ENGENDERING TRUST Capcos governance supports management as they optimise the long-term value of the business and its assets.
The company was fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2013 Ian Durant, Chairman The Board is responsible for the success of the The Remuneration Committee has continued its Company, providing strategic leadership, monitoring review of Executive Director remuneration to ensure delivery of its objectives and managing its risk.
that the arrangements are fully aligned with the interests of shareholders and continue to motivate a The Companys framework of oversight, controls highly successful team.
The Remuneration Report and reporting supports the business and allows the includes single gures for the remuneration paid to Company to operate internally with an appropriate each Director in 2013, as well as a number of other level of openness, with both formality and exibility.
disclosures for which the disclosure requirements Externally the Company has endeavoured to had not been nalised at the time of the 2012 communicate its expectations, objectives and Annual Report.
milestones for success clearly: all key ingredients to engendering con dence in ongoing creation and The Audit Committee has been active in monitoring growth of value for our owners.
the Companys internal controls, key accounting and reporting matters, especially in areas requiring We were pleased to welcome Anne Byrne as General judgement.
It has also given due attention to Counsel during the year.
Although not a Director, ensuring that the external and internal audits are Anne is invited to attend all Board meetings.
conducted as eff ectively as possible.
Its 2013 report During the year we have worked to plan succession has been reviewed and extended to include fuller for Non-executive Directors who will be retiring from descriptions of the work undertaken by the the Board in coming years.
Maintaining the culture Committee during the year, and explain how of openness and debate with constructive relations signi cant issues were considered.
between Executive and Non-executive Directors is a The governance of the Company is designed to create key objective and I am grateful to Board members and and maintain an environment in which management senior management for their commitment to this.
can realise their potential and optimise the long-term As I reported last year, an updated UK Corporate value of the business and its assets, responsibly.
The Governance Code, which applies to Capco for the first following pages explain how Capcos Board and its time this year, was introduced in 2012 and a number Committees work to support these objectives.
of changes have been made to narrative reporting and remuneration disclosures.
We adopted many of the new disclosures in our 2012 Annual Report and we have continued this progress in this years Annual Report.
Ian Durant Chairman 25 February 2014 52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board independence STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that, UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE excluding the Chairman, at least half the Board The Company was fully compliant with the UK should comprise Non-executive Directors determined Corporate Governance Code during 2013. to be independent.
Board composition The Board has considered the independence of the As at 31 December 2013 the Board comprised the Non-executive Directors, and the table below sets Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Nonout those Directors considered to be independent executive Directors.
The table below summarises the in character and judgement.
Each of these Directors membership of the Board and Committees.
In addition, has also con rmed that there is no reason why they biographies of all the Directors including information should not continue to be considered independent.
on their skills and experience can be found on In considering Director independence, the Board pages 50 and 51. concluded that Directors tenure should be counted from the date of their first election by shareholders to the Capco Board.
BOARD INDEPENDENCE Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Independent Committee Committee Committee CR Committee Ian Durant Chairman n a Ian Hawksworth Chief Executive No Soumen Das No Gary Yardley No Graeme Gordon No Ian Henderson Yes Senior Independent Director Andrew Huntley Yes Demetra Pinsent Yes Henry Staunton Yes Andrew Strang Yes 56% www.
com 53 Corporate governance report continued LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE THE BOARD Strategy: Leadership: Risk Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Oversees financial reporting Sets remuneration policy Recommends Board Committee Monitors internal controls Sets Executive Director appointments Aligns corporate Oversees risk management remuneration and Succession planning responsibility initiatives Monitors internal and incentives Board evaluation with the corporate strategy external auditors Approves annual Oversees corporate performance objectives responsibility activities Further information: Audit Committee Report Directors Remuneration Nomination Committee CR Committee page 61 pages 57 to 59 Report pages 62 to 81 page 60 and 61 Corporate Responsibility Risk Management Report Report pages 42 to 49 pages 12 to 15 The Board meets formally throughout the AN EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP The Board in 2013 year with main meetings timed around the STRUCTURE financial calendar, and additional meetings The Board is collectively responsible for convened to consider speci c matters as the long-term success of the Company, During 2013 the Board received required.
Attendance at Board and Board and for its leadership, strategy, control regular asset, financial and Committee meetings held during 2013 is and management.
performance updates from the shown in the table on page 56.
If matters Executive Directors, and reports The roles of the Chairman and Chief require approval at short notice, written from the Company Secretary, General Executive are distinct and formally approval is sought from the Directors.
Counsel, Director of HR & CR and documented, with the Chairman being Board papers are typically circulated a Committee Chairmen.
Other matters responsible for the leadership of the Board, week in advance of meetings to ensure considered by the Board during the ensuring its eff ectiveness and setting its that Directors have suffi cient time to year are shown below: agenda, and the Chief Executive for consider their content prior to the meeting.
developing the Companys strategic Strategy The Chairman also meets regularly with direction, implementing policies and Annual and interim results, the Non-executive Directors without the strategies decided by the Board and interim management statements Executive Directors being present.
and dividends It is in the nature of the Companys business Finance matters including Day-to-day management of the Group is that matters requiring the Boards decision budgets, taxation, cash and delegated to the Executive Directors, are often large, complex and slow moving.
treasury management subject to formal delegated authority To assist the Board, informal update Signi cant investment decisions limits, however certain matters have been meetings are held between Board meetings including property acquisitions reserved for consideration by the Board.
which are designed to allow Board members and disposals These matters are reviewed annually adequate time and preparation to explore, Property valuations, market and and include: Board and Committee understand and challenge decisions in broker updates composition, Company strategy, preparation.
These are sometimes Progress on Earls Court Properties signi cant funding decisions and combined with site visits and provide planning and land assembly corporate transactions, delegated an opportunity for the Non-executive Risk governance authority limits and dividend policy.
Directors to meet senior management.
Delegated authority limits Four such updates were held during 2013.
Through the Chairman, the Company AGM resolutions Secretary is responsible for advising the Outcome of Board evaluation, ENSURING AN EFFECTIVE Board on matters of corporate governance, including Board diversity BOARD and ensures good information ows Committees terms of reference Board performance and evaluation within the Board and its Committees and and schedule of matters reserved Recognising that Capcos Board must be between senior management and Nonfor Board decision eff ective, the Board conducts an annual executive Directors.
The General Counsel evaluation of its own performance and that attends Board meetings and meetings of of its Committees and Directors.
In 2013 the the Audit Committee.
Board engaged Independent Audit Limited 54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2013 BOARD EVALUATION Chairman and Company Secretary considered the approach to be taken to 2013 Board Evaluation and prepared a list of possible Board Evaluators Shortlisted candidates were invited to present their proposed approach to the Board Evaluation to the Chairman and Company Secretary Independent Audit Limited was recommended to the Nomination Committee and Board Independent Audit undertook a thorough review of Board materials and conducted face to face interviews with each Director, the Company Secretary, General Counsel and Director of HR & CR Independent Audit prepared a report for consideration by the Chairman The report was presented to the Board for consideration The Chairman and Company Secretary developed an action plan for adoption by the Board ACTIONS FOR 2013 PROGRESS ACTIONS FOR 2014 Develop Board succession plan The Chairman has focused on developing the succession Continue to develop plan during 2013 succession planning Improve challenge and objective debate at meetings The Chairman ensures that each Director has the Consider improvements opportunity to participate in discussions at Board to Board agenda and Ensure Directors remain meetings papers up to date on regulatory developments This is ensured by regular updates from the Company Review the remit of the Secretary and the General Counsel CR Committee Ensure regular Board updates are held outside of formal Four Board updates were held during 2013 between Board meetings formal Board meetings to conduct an external review of the Board and its Committees.
The site also includes links to our Face-to-face interviews were conducted with each Director, the business unit websites and contact details for shareholder queries.
General Counsel, Company Secretary and Director of HR & CR.
Annual General Meeting The Report produced by Independent Audit judged the Board to be Our AGM allows the Board to update our shareholders on eff ective and open, and made recommendations on how to improve Capcos progress, and provides an opportunity for shareholders certain areas.
The report was considered by the Board, and the to pose questions to the Directors, and meet senior executives.
Chairman and Company Secretary have developed a plan to address Shareholders are encouraged to vote on the resolutions put to the a number of the recommendations made.
Further information meeting, either in person at the meeting, online or by submitting on the evaluation process, the priorities identi ed and progress a proxy card.
We publish the results of the votes on all resolutions against actions arising from the 2012 review is set out above.
on our website following the meeting.
In addition to the Board evaluation, during the year the Senior Our 2014 AGM will be held on 2 May 2014.
The notice of Annual Independent Director and Non-executive Directors conducted an General Meeting will be issued to shareholders at least 20 working annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance, and the Chairman days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions will be proposed undertook appraisals of the other Directors performance.
on each separate issue, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the Directors will off er themselves for COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS re-election.
Our policy The Board is keen to ensure that our shareholders and potential The Chairman, Chairmen of the Board Committees and other investors have a good understanding of Capcos business and Directors will be available at the AGM to meet shareholders and performance, and that Directors are aware of any issues and answer any questions.
concerns which shareholders may have.
The Company Should shareholders have any concerns that they are unable to communicates with stakeholders in a number of ways.
successfully resolve following communication with the Chairman, Corporate website Chief Executive or Finance Director, they may raise them through Our corporate website www.
com allows the Senior Independent Director.
visitors to access Company information, annual reports, results www.
com 55 Corporate governance report continued ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The following table shows Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during 2013: Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR Ian Durant 7 7 2 2 4 4 Ian Hawksworth 7 7 2 2 4 4 Soumen Das 7 7 Gary Yardley 7 7 Ian Henderson 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 4 4 Graeme Gordon 6 7 Andrew Huntley 7 7 5 5 2 2 Demetra Pinsent 6 7 2 2 4 4 Henry Staunton 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 Andrew Strang 7 7 3 3 5 5 2 2 7352 4 Graeme Gordon appointed Raymond Fine as his alternate in respect of the one meeting which he was unable to attend.
Demetra Pinsent was unable to attend one meeting called at short notice due to prior travel arrangements.
On appointment, and each subsequent year, Non-executive Communications with shareholders Directors are required to con rm in writing that they have Communication with the Companys investors is a priority for suffi cient time to devote to the Companys aff airs.
The Company has an extensive investor relations they are required to seek prior approval from the Chairman programme, and the Chief Executive and Finance Director hold before taking on any additional external commitments which meetings with institutional shareholders throughout the year, may aff ect their time available to devote to the Company.
including results presentations, webcasts, road shows, one-to-one meetings and investor tours.
The Board remains satis ed that all Non-executive Directors are contributing eff ectively to the operation of the Board.
The Companys major shareholders are encouraged to meet with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director to discuss any The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to matters they may wish to raise.
During 2013 the Chairman and authorise potential con icts of a Directors interests that may arise.
Company Secretary met with several of the Companys South The Board has adopted a procedure under which Directors must African shareholders and the Chairman of the Remuneration notify the Chairman of any potential con icts.
The Chairman then Committee discussed proposed amendments to the Executive decides whether a con ict exists and recommends its authorisation Directors remuneration with Capcos major shareholders.
by the Board where appropriate.
A Director who had a con ict of interest would not be counted in the quorum or entitled to vote The Directors receive regular updates on the Companys major when the Board considered the matter in which the Director had shareholders, and receive reports on shareholder feedback at each an interest.
The Non-executive Directors are invited to attend the Companys results presentations.
Private shareholders may BOARD COMMITTEES raise questions through the Company Secretarys offi ce either by The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination telephone or by email feedback@capitalandcounties.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Companys website CONFLICTS OF INTEREST www.
The activity of each Committee The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in his is described on pages 57 to 81. biography on page 51.
During the year the Chairman was appointed as Non-executive DTR DISCLOSURE Chairman of Greggs plc.
The Board remains satis ed that this The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and additional commitment has not interfered with the performance Transparency Rules are contained in this report, the Audit of his duties as Chairman of Capco.
Committee and the Nomination Committee Report, except for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained in the The Deputy Chairman is a Director of the Board of Capcos joint Directors Report on pages 82 and 83. venture in respect of the Lillie Square development.
He receives no remuneration for this appointment.
The Board considered this appointment carefully before con rming its approval and is satis ed that there is no con ict of interest and that the appointment does not compromise his independence.
