Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit committee report AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2013 Audit Committee Report which explains the Committees role in monitoring all aspects of financial reporting, internal controls and risk management, and provides an overview of the work undertaken by the Committee over the past year.
During 2013 the Committee considered a number of topics, the most signi cant of which are described below.
A description of this work, and information about the other signi cant issues that the Committee considered during the year can be found on page 58.
Henry Staunton Chairman of the Audit Committee, 25 February 2014 Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Members: Ian Henderson Audit Committee Henry Staunton Chairman Andrew Strang The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, The valuers and members of senior management, oversees the financial reporting process, monitors the including the Head of Tax, attended by invitation eff ectiveness of internal control, internal audit, risk to present reports required for the Committee to management, and the statutory audit and monitors discharge its responsibilities.
the independence of the statutory auditors and the The Audit Committee met three times during 2013. provision of non-audit services.
As at 31 December 2013 Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on and the date of this report the Committee comprises page 56.
The Committee also met privately during the three independent Non-executive Directors, and is year with both the external and internal auditors.
chaired by Henry Staunton who is considered to have signi cant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee follows an annual programme that ensures it gives thorough consideration to matters The Committees meetings were also attended by of particular importance to the Company, and the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance additional matters are considered when appropriate.
Director, General Counsel, Company Secretary The Companys 2013 agenda is shown in the table and Financial Controller together with senior below, and the signi cant matters considered by the representatives of the external and internal auditors.
Committee during the year are explained on page 58.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2013 Regular agenda items Other matters considered during the year Report from Financial Controller E ff ectiveness and reappointment Preliminary Results and External Auditor Report of External and Internal Auditor Annual Report including regulatory update External and Internal audit plans Interim Results Announcement Internal Auditor Report Internal controls and Interim Management from BDO Statements Property valuations Analysis of the Conditional Land Tax update Sale Agreement Going concern Approach to 2013 Annual Report, Risk management including discussion of how Control and governance the Board would determine procedures that it was fair, balanced Corporate Governance Policies and understandable www.
com 57 Audit committee report continued SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE DURING 2013 Matter considered What the Committee did Valuations The independent external valuers presented the half-year and year-end valuations to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the methodology and component parts of the valuations, discussed the valuations with the external auditors and challenged the valuers on the assumptions used which included how land assembly transactions with Network Rail and Transport for London should be re ected.
The Committee also advised the Board on the independence of the valuers and obtained con rmation that management had provided all requested information.
The Committee was satis ed that the approach taken by the valuers was appropriate.
Please refer to note 18 on pages 106 to 108 in the notes to the accounts.
Deferred tax The Group Head of Tax presented regular reports to the Committee, explained the basis of the Groups tax position and updated the Committee on the ongoing relationship with HMRC.
The Committee challenged the assumptions made in arriving at the tax position and discussed with the external auditor the assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the deferred tax position including appropriations from investment to trading property.
The Committee was satis ed that the policy was appropriate for the Group.
Please refer to note 14 on page 103 in the notes to the accounts.
Signi cant The Committee received updates from the Group Financial Controller on signi cant and and complex complex transactions, including the CLSA, the acquisition of the residual fty per cent transactions interest in The Empress State Building and the Network Rail lease re-gear.
The Committee discussed the accounting treatments of each transaction with management and the external auditors and is satis ed that the appropriate approach has been taken.
Further information in respect of the CLSA is available within the Financial Review.
Risk The Committee reviewed the Groups risk register, the approach taken in its compilation and the proposed principal risk disclosures as explained on page 12 and ensured that they were consistent and appropriate.
The Committee also monitored changes to the regulatory environment, including the introduction of the Strategic Report and the requirement for the Board to state that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure that the Companys reporting remained appropriate and compliant.
b Internal auditors External and internal auditors Capco has appointed BDO LLP as its internal auditor.
a External auditors During 2013 BDOs audit plan had a strategic focus The Committee oversees the relationship with the and included reviews of contract management of external auditors, and is responsible for developing, outsourced providers, project management, HR, IT implementing and monitoring the Companys policy security, anti-bribery and corruption policies, bank on external audit, and for monitoring the auditors mandates, expenses and credit control.
The 2014 independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical, internal audit programme will include property professional and regulatory requirements.
valuations, service charges, disaster recovery and Capco tendered its external audit contract in 2010, and business continuity, environmental impact  LLP PwC were appointed management and IT strategic planning.
The Committee as Group auditors on an annual rolling contract.
is satis ed that the internal auditor was independent The Committee monitored PwCs eff ectiveness and and its services eff ective.
performance during 2013, and considered a paper c Non-audit services prepared by the Financial Controller which con rmed The Company has adopted a policy to ensure that the that in managements view PwC were providing a provision of non-audit services by the external auditors high quality audit service and continued to deliver does not compromise its independence or objectivity.
against all facilities considered at their appointment.
The policy requires prior approval by the Audit The Committee is satis ed that the Group is receiving Committee Chairman for non-audit work with a cost a robust and challenging objective audit and has exceeding the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be estimated annual level of the auditors fees at that time.
It is expected that, in compliance Approval is only given following a full and thorough with the requirement that the audit partner responsible assessment of the value case for using the auditor and for the Group and subsidiary audits is rotated every five the skills and experience the auditor would bring.
years, a new audit partner will be assigned to the Group Additionally, consideration must be given to the by PwC in 2014. preservation of auditor independence: and the external auditors are required to con rm that they are acting independently and must not audit their own work: make management decisions for the Company: create 58 Capco Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements a mutuality of interest: develop close personal The Committee conducts an annual review of the relationships with the Companys personnel: or nd eff ectiveness of the Groups internal controls and themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
The considers reports provided by the Financial Controller, Committee is satis ed that the policy remains eff ective.
external auditor and internal auditor.
The Committee is satis ed that the Groups internal controls are The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2013 were operating eff ectively.
377,000, of which 11,000 related to non-audit work.
These fees primarily relate to corporate transactions Speci c controls relating to financial reporting and and a staff presentation in respect of the Bribery Act consolidation processes include: 2010.
The Committee is satis ed that the external Management structure staff ed by appropriate auditors remain independent and objective.
personnel, with clear lines of responsibility and accountability Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups A comprehensive budgeting and review system.
risk management framework and system of internal The Board and Audit Committee receive regular control and the ongoing review of their eff ectiveness.
reports from the Finance Director which include A summary of the risk management framework is set forecasts and performance against budget and out on page 12.
The framework is designed to manage financial covenants rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide The internal audit programme undertaken by BDO reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee Led by the Chief Executive, the Group finance team monitors and reviews the Groups internal controls participates in the control self-assessment and policy and risk, and reports to the Board on its work compliance elements of the risk management and conclusions.
framework and sets formal requirements with business unit finance functions which specify the The Company has established processes to identify, reports and approvals required.
BDO regularly evaluate and manage the signi cant risks faced by reviews the eff ectiveness of internal controls and the Group.
These controls accord with the Turnbull report its findings to the Audit Committee.
guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and remained in place up to An annual risk management process is followed the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
to identify risks and review the eff ectiveness of The procedures are reviewed by the Board on an mitigating controls.
Risk registers are completed annual basis.
by senior management across the Group and reviewed by the Chief Executive and other Executive The key elements of the Groups day-to-day procedures Directors.
The Group risk register is then compiled and internal control framework are: and is reviewed twice a year and upon any material Schedule of matters reserved for the Board change to the business, with a full review being undertaken annually, at which point it is also Delegated authority limits reviewed by the Audit Committee with new or Documentation of signi cant transactions emerging risks considered by the Committee as The Executive Directors are closely involved in the appropriate.
The Groups principal risks and day-to-day operations of the business and hold uncertainties are set out on pages 12 to 15. regular meetings with senior management to review all aspects of the business, including risks and controls The Board receives regular updates on strategy and project developments at Board meetings and Board updates A whistleblowing procedure under which staff may raise matters of concern is in place.
No calls were received during the year.
