38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Board of directors Our team As at the date of signing the directors report, the following people were directors of the Company: David Watson Grenville Turner Jim Clarke Non-executive director Chief executive officer Chief financial officer and interim Chairman Grenville Turner has been a director of Jim Clarke joined the Group in November Chair of Audit and Risk Committee theGroup since 1 August 2006, when he 2007.
He was previously finance director and Chair of Nomination Committee joined Countrywide as an executive director.
company secretary of JD Wetherspoon and David Watson was appointed senior Hebecame Group CEO on 1 January 2007. has previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure independent nonexecutive director and MrTurner is also a director of Countrywide a division of Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Chairman of the Companys Audit and Risk Estate Agents, a director and the executive Holdings plc.
MrClarke is a graduate of Committee on 2September 2013.
Mr Watson chairman of Hamptons International Limited, Stirling University and he qualified as a is currently a nonexecutive director of Charles chairman of Knightsbridge Student Housing chartered accountant in 1984.
Taylor plc, Kames Capital plc, Hermes Fund Limited and Bellpenny Limited and a Managers Limited and T R Property Investment nonexecutive director of Zoopla Property Trust plc.
He chairs the audit committees of Group Limited.
He was formerly chief Charles Taylor plc, Hermes Fund Managers executive of IF and chief executive of Business Limited and T R Property Investment Trust plc.
to Business at HBOS and previously served as He has extensive industry and accounting adirector of St Jamess Place Capital Plc, experience.
Mr Watson has had a distinguished Sainsburys Bank Plc and Rightmove.
co. uk career as a finance director.
Mr. Turner qualified as a chartered he was finance director for the general banker in 1982 and holds an MBA from insurance division of Aviva and prior to that Cranfield Business School.
he held various other senior financial roles at Aviva as well as Prudential Group and NatWest Markets.
MrWatson is a Chartered Accountant and a graduate of City University Business School.
A R N 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Cathy Turner Caleb Kramer Sandra Turner Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Chair of Remuneration Committee Caleb Kramer was appointed as a director Sandra Turner was appointed nonexecutive Cathy Turner was appointed nonexecutive inthe Group in May 2009.
He is a managing director of the Company on 18 March 2013. director of the Company and Chairman of director and portfolio manager Europe She is currently a nonexecutive director theCompanys Remuneration Committee atOaktree Capital Management UK LLP.
ofCarpetright plc, McBride plc and on31July 2013.
She is currently a Priorto joining Oaktree in 2000, Mr Kramer HuhtmakiOYJ and previously held a similar vicepresident of UNICEF UK and a member cofounded Seneca Capital Partners LLC, role at Northern Foods plc.
Mrs Turner has ofthe board of the Royal College of Art and aprivate equity investment firm.
From been involved in the retail sector throughout the Institute of Financial Services.
She has 1994to1996, Mr Kramer was employed her career and was employed by Tesco PLC, extensive industry experience working byArchonCapital Partners, an investment latterly as commercial director for Tesco withDeloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young firm.
Prior to 1994, Mr Kramer was an Ireland, from 1987 to 2009.
Prior to this, she andWatson Wyatt as a compensation and associate inmergers and acquisitions had previously worked in sales and marketing benefitsconsultant in her early career.
Inc. and an analyst roles for Unilever and Wilkinson Sword.
Shesubsequently joined Barclays PLC, atMerrillLynch and Co. Inc. Mr. Kramer A R N whereshewas a member of the group receiveda BA degree in economics executive committee with responsibility for fromtheUniversity of Virginia.
human resources, corporate affairs, strategy R and brand and marketing.
During her time with Barclays shewas also Director of investor relations for fouryears and had extensive experience in remuneration in her many roles.
Most recently, she was chief administrative officer of Lloyds Banking Group PLC.
She isagraduate of the University of Lancaster.
A R Key to committee membership A Audit and Risk committee N Nomination committee R Remuneration committee Each of the nonexecutive directors is considered to beindependent, with the exception of Caleb Kramer as he holdsthe position of managing director at Oaktree Capital Management UK LLP, a substantial shareholder of theCompany.
