40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate governance statement This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 have been applied to the affairs of theCompany.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Prior to the IPO in March 2013, the corporate governance sectionof the Board Company was not required to follow Companys website.
These documents theCode although it did take account arealso accompanied by the terms of Leadership ofanumber of its principles, including referencefor each of the three Board theprovision of an internal audit function.
The Board provides leadership to the Following listing the Board has sought Group.
Itsets the strategy and oversees its The Board delegates matters to the three tomove towards full compliance with implementation, ensuring that acceptable Board committees, identified below, theCode.
The directors have considered risks are taken.
It ensures that the right inlinewith their terms of reference and the thecontents and requirements of the people and resources are in place for formal schedule of matters reserved for Codeandnote the following instances theGroup to meet its objectives, review Board approval.
Further information on the ofnon-compliance: management performance and deliver work of these committees during the year longterm value to shareholders and can be found inlater sections of this report: otherstakeholders.
Nomination Committee within Board Until the appointment of Cathy Turner Y effectiveness: Auditand Risk Committee The Board retains control of key decisions asanonexecutive director on within Accountability: and Remuneration and has put in place a formal schedule of 31July2013, the Audit Committee Committee within the separate matters specifically reserved for its andthe Remuneration Committee did remuneration report.
The roles of Chairman and chief not consist of at least three independent executive are separated, clearly defined nonexecutive directors provisions The directors attendance at the scheduled and approved by the Board.
A copy of C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 of the Code.
However, Board meetings and Board committee matters reserved forBoard approval and following this appointment the meetings isshown in the table below.
the division of responsibilities between the Company has complied with those Attendance is expressed as the number roles of the Chairman and the chief provisions for the remainder of the ofmeetings that each director attended out executive is available to view on the financial year ofthe number they were eligible to attend.
Similarly, until the appointment Y Audit and Risk Nomination Remuneration ofCathyTurner, the Board did not Board Committee Committee Committee consist of a majority of independent Director Date of appointment meetings meetings meetings meetings nonexecutive directors excluding the Grenville Turner 19 February 2013 7 7 Chairman in accordance with provision B.
However, whilst Jim Clarke 28 December 2012 7 7 compliance with this provision was Caleb Kramer 19 February 2013 6 7 1 2 therefore achieved on 31 July 2013, Sanjay Patel 19 February 2013: the resignation of Robert Davies on resigned 14 August 2013 1 4 7November 2013 means that the Company will not be compliant with Robert Davies 18 March 2013: thisrequirement until a new independent resigned 7 November 2013 6 6 1 1 2 2 1 1 director is appointed Neville Richardson 18 March 2013: resigned 18 June 2013 2 2 1 1 Annual evaluation of the performance Y ofthe Chairman and the Board, its David Watson 2 September 2013 3 3 2 2 1 1 Committees and individual directors Cathy Turner 31 July 2013 4 4 2 2 2 2 provisions A.
6.1 respectively has not been conducted during the Sandra Turner 18 March 2013 7 7 4 4 2 2 2 2 period as a year has not elapsed since the formation of the Board.
Performance Sanjay Patel, the director appointed by ApolloAffiliated Fund, was engaged in various overseas commitments which meant that his attendance was intermittent.
However, an Apollo representative was always sent in his place.
evaluations will be conducted during theforthcoming year Neville Richardson held the role of senior independent nonexecutive director and Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee for the duration of his directorship.
Robert Davies performed the role oftemporary Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee until the appointment of David Watson.
Robert Davies held the role of Chairman and Chair of the Nomination Committee for the duration of his directorship.
Following Robert Davies resignation, David Watson has undertaken these roleson an interim basis.
41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 ofgender, race, religion, age or disability.
The Board is responsible for the Groups Nomination Committee Given our commitment to appointing the system of internal control and for reviewing bestpeople and ensuring that all employees itseffectiveness.
This has been designed Composition have an equal chance of developing their tomanage, rather than eliminate, the risk careers within the Group, we do not think ofany failure to achieve its strategic objectives.
Chairman 1 itisappropriate to set targets for Board It can provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or Nonexecutive appointments.
In addition toBoard diversity, loss.
The Boards approach to risk management directors 1 we believe in promoting diversity at all levels is supported by an oversight structure, as of the organisation and further details of our detailed on page 31, which includes the workforce diversity are set out on page 32.
Following appointment to the Board, Board effectiveness The Board has an ongoing process to identify, alldirectors are offered an induction Following its formation during the year, the evaluate and manage the significant risks faced andsubsequent training to suit their needs.
Nomination Committee was responsible for by the Group.
This was in place throughout Alldirectors also have access to the advice evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, the year and up to the date of the approval and services of the company secretary independence and knowledge on the Board.
This process is regularly inaddition to access to independent Initial appointments made prior to the reviewed by the Board and accords with the professional advice at the Companys formation of the Committee were made by Turnbull guidance.
In addition, the Audit and expense where they judge itnecessary the Company using an independent search Risk Committee and the Board reviewed the todischarge their duties as directors.
and selection agency, Egon Zehnder whose effectiveness of the risk management and Although this is the initial period services were also used by the Nomination internal control systems, including the followingappointment and therefore no Committee forthe two subsequent financial, operational and compliance formal performance evaluation has been appointments detailedbelow.
This was primarily achieved by: conducted, the Nomination Committee is Formal annual evaluation of the performance pleased with thetime commitment of each of the Board, its Committees, the directors Reviewing the workstream undertaken nonexecutive director during their initial Y andthe Chairman has not been conducted bythe Group Risk and Compliance period of appointment and is confident inthe year under review as the Board and Committee to update the Groups risk thateach of them would be ina position Nomination Committee were only formed register through liaison with each of todischarge their duties to the Company during the year.
Further details of this process thedivisions, update the control risk inthe coming year.
Accordingly, asdetailed will be provided in our 2014 annual report.
assessments and the resultant residual inthe notice of the AGM, alldirectors will risk map to ensure that this aligned stand forreelection.
The Nomination Committee has met twice withthe Boards risk appetite during the period to consider the appointments of Cathy Turner and Audit and Risk Committee Reviewing reports from the internal audit Y DavidWatson, the nonexecutive directors team, who report to the chief financial appointed after completion of the IPO process Composition officer but have direct access to the and the establishment of the Nomination chief executive and Chairman of the Chairman 1 Committee.
The Nomination Committee has Audit Committee, including any issues appointed anindependent search agency, identified in the course of their work Nonexecutive Lygon Group, to assist in the identification of aprogramme approved by the Committee directors 2 suitable candidates to join the Board and updated on a rolling basis so that andachieve fullCode compliance.
In light of appropriate actions can be undertaken Grenville Turners decision to step down as Reviewing annually the Groups system CEO and take on the role of nonexecutive Y Accountability ofinternal control.
This includes a Chairman, the Board are addressing the skills The Audit and Risk Committees key role isto summaryof key risks and associated and experience sought in his successor.
assist the Board in fulfilling its financial oversight controls and areport from the internal Grenville will be involved in the process and responsibilities in ensuring the integrity of audit team on their work continue to serve as Group CEO until an the Groups financial statements and the appropriate candidate is in place.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management Monitoring the risks and associated Y and internal control processes.
Accordingly, The Company believes that diversity controls over the financial reporting meetings were held atkey timeswithin the ofexperience and approach, including processes, including the process by reporting and audit calendar and were also gender diversity, amongst Board members which the Groups financial statements attended by the chieffinancial officer, the isof great importance and it is the Companys areprepared for publication company secretary and the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues Reviewing reports from the external external auditor,  LLP.
Y of Board balance and diversity when making auditor on any issues identified during In addition, the Chairman, internal audit new appointments.
The search for candidates the course of their work, including andrisk management representatives and any subsequent appointments are, areport on controlweaknesses wereinvited toattend.
therefore, made purely on merit regardless 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Corporate governance statement continued In addition to the significant matters opposite Audit and Risk Committee continued which include an element of judgement, wealso considered the presentation of the Accountability continued financial statements and, in particular, the compliance with financial reporting and No material failings or weaknesses were identified during the review of the risk management disclosure requirements associated with and internal control system.
TheAudit Committee has also reviewed whistleblowing arrangements premium listing.
In respect of each of these allowing employees to raise concerns on a confidential basis and ensures that investigation matters, the Audit Committee reviewed ofany whistleblowing incidents is undertaken.
papers presented by management and The Audit Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted discussed critical judgements and estimates andwhether management have made appropriate estimates and judgements.
In the year inherent within the conclusions, providing under review, the Audit Committee considered the following significant matters in relation challenge where necessary.
The Audit tothe financial statements: Committee also reviewed the reporting fromthe external auditor to ensure all that Matter Action the Audit Committee has taken these matters had been considered and consistent conclusions had been reached.
Provisions: We reviewed the methodology and resultant professional At the request of the Board, the Audit professional indemnity provision prepared by management and regularly andRisk Committee considered whether indemnity, property compared the emerging pattern of settled claims to assess the2013 annual report was fair, balanced and otherprovisions whether the methodology and assumptions were appropriate.
and understandable and whether it provided The Committee concluded that the methodology and the necessary information for the shareholders assumptions made were reasonable.
Property and other to assess Countrywides performance, business provisions were reviewed for consistency of approach model and strategy.
The Committee was andassumptions agreed as reasonable.
For more detail in satisfied that, taken as a whole, the annual respect of provisioning policies adopted see note 3. report is fair, balanced and understandable and has affirmed that view to the full Board.
Impairment of We reviewed discounted cash flows and sensitivities prepared The Audit Committee has policies in place goodwill and by management, discussing assumptions adopted and tomonitor and maintain the objectivity and intangibles with concurred that a prudent approach underpinned their independence of the external auditor, PwC.
anindefinitelife conclusion of no impairment being required.
Acopy of the policy is available for review onthe corporate governance section of our website.
The policy requires prior approval Valuation of We discussed the paper presented by management which bythe Audit Committee ofnonaudit work available-for-sale outlined three alternative methodologies discounted cash above a fide minimis threshold of 50,000. assets flow, EBITDA multiples and latest transaction prices for valuation ofassets held as availableforsale.
The assumptions and rationale were reasonable and all converged on a closely similar outcome.
Acquisitions We reviewed a management paper summarising the accounting acquisitions undertaken during the year.
Our discussion focused on the accounting treatment adopted in respect ofLambert Smith Hampton, due to individual materiality ofthetransaction.
Wewere satisfied with the fair value accounting approach andvaluation proposed by management.
Share-based We reviewed the methodology and conclusion presented by payments management in relation to the various sharebased payment arrangements.
The assumptions made were reviewed and agreed as reasonable.
For more detail in respect of sharebased incentives and valuation methodologies see note 26.
43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 During the year the external auditor The external auditor reported to the Board and Remuneration Committee undertook the following nonaudit work: confirmed their independence inaccordance with ethical standards andthat they had Fee Matter 000 maintained appropriate internal safeguards Composition toensure their independence and objectivity.
IPO due diligence reports 850 In addition tothe steps taken by the Board Chairman 1 IPO remuneration advice 150 tosafeguard auditor objectivity, PwC operates Nonexecutive a five year rotation policy for audit partners IPO fees agreed prior to listing 1,000 directors 3 for a listed entity.
Subsequent remuneration advice 54 We also adopted a formal framework to Tax advisory services 48 conduct our review of the effectiveness Due diligence on acquisition ofthe external audit process and audit Remuneration targets 152 quality and applied this to the completion The work of the Remuneration Committee ofthe 2013 Group audit cycle.
The framework issubject to a separate report following Non-audit fees post IPO 254 takes the form ofan annual questionnaire thiscorporate governance section.
covering all key aspects of the audit and is Work undertaken in relation to the IPO The Committee appointed, and received advice completed by each member of the Committee wasperformed by PwC due to its role as the on remuneration from New Bridge Street, a and by the CFO.
Feedback is also sought incumbent auditor and reporting accountant.
New Bridge Street from other members of the Group finance Subsequent remuneration advice provided is not otherwise connected tothe Group.
team, divisional management and the head in respect of the creation of the new LTIP of internal audit.
Based on responses to and share scheme plan was performed by Relations with shareholders thequestionnaires, management produces PwC due to its familiarity with the subject areport for detailed consideration by the Shareholder relations are given high priority by matter arising from previous consultations Audit Committee.
The feedback from this the Board.
The prime means of communication during theIPO process.
PwC performed process is considered by the Committee and with the majority of our shareholders is via the thedue diligence in relation to acquisition is provided to the auditor and to management, interim and annual reports, supplemented targets dueto the short notice period to with action plans developed accordingly by interim management statements, which appoint investigating accountants.
In order andreviewed by theCommittee.
aim to provide shareholders with a clear to maintain its independence and objectivity, understanding of the Groups activities and PwC undertook its standard independence PwC was appointed as auditor to the results.
General presentations are given to procedures in relation to those engagements.
Company in 2007 and we note that the both shareholders and analysts following the Further details on amounts paid to PwC are current partners term will end in 2015. publication of the interim and annual results.
included in note 7 to the financial statements.
Weare aware of the regulatory developments These were reported to and considered by and transitional arrangements in relation to Shareholders have the opportunity to the Audit Committee.
Excluding the fees in audit tendering provisions and will continue address questions to the Chairman and relation to the IPO, nonaudit fees represent to monitor guidance.
However, we may put theChairmen of the Audit and Risk Committee less than 50% of the recurring base audit the audit out to tender at any time before a and Remuneration Committee at the AGM.
feeand will remain subject to scrutiny regulatory retendering date if we were to All shareholders are encouraged to attend the andapproval by the Audit Committee.
conclude that this is in the Groups interest.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions There are no contractual obligations restricting in advance of the AGM, or to contact the our choice of external auditor and no auditor Board at any other time, are invited to do liability agreement has been entered into.
soby writing to the company secretary at the registered address given on page 115.
Takeover Directive details on share capital structures are included in the directors report on page57.
For more shareholder information, please visit our Investor Relations section of our website www.
