LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Committee membership The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its meetings is set out in Table 2.
The Chairman chairs the meetings of the Nomination Committee, except when the business of the meeting relates to the appointment of his own successor.
In accordance with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of members the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent by the Company.
Table 2 Membership and attendance at Nomination Committee meetings Dear Shareholder Nomination Committee Chairman: Bob Lawson Board changes Bob Lawson 3 3 During the year under review Bob Davies stepped down from his Mark Clare 3 3 positions of Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director Bob Davies 1 2 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Nomination Richard Akers 3 3 Committee assessed the skills of each of the Non-Executive Directors Tessa Bamford 3 3 and recommended, to the Board, the appointments of Mark Rolfe Nina Bibby 1 1 and Richard Akers as Senior Independent Director and Chairman Rod MacEachrane 3 3 of the Remuneration Committee respectively.
The Board subsequently Mark Rolfe 3 3 endorsed these recommendations.
In addition, the Nomination Bob Davies explained the reasons for his absence and provided his views on the items Committee, with the assistance of an external recruitment consultant, of business to the Chairman prior to the meeting he was unable to attend.
Bob stepped identi ed Nina Bibby as an additional Non-Executive Director to ll down from his position as a Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2012 and consequently ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee as at that date.
the skills gap identi ed by the members of the Board.
Details of the Nina Bibby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012 and became recruitment process are set out on page 48 of this report.
a member of the Nomination Committee as at that date.
Note: Board performance evaluation 1 3 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director: 3 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
The last independent Board evaluation was carried out in respect of the 2009 10 financial year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Nomination Committee, with the Boards approval, Activities undertaken during the 2012 13 financial year appointed Independent Board Evaluation IBE, to undertake the The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during evaluation of the Board and its Committees for the financial year ended the year to consider: 30 June 2013.
The feedback from IBE concerning the work of the the structure, size and composition of the Board, having Nomination Committee was positive.
The Nomination Committee will regard to the Boards balance of skills, experience, look to progress those areas where there is room for improvement, independence and knowledge: such as enhancing long-term succession planning, during the 2013 14 the appointment of Nina Bibby as a Non-Executive Director financial year.
Further details of the Board evaluation process, findings with effect from 3 December 2012: and recommendations can be found on page 49 of this report.
succession plans for Directors including the Senior Independent Director and senior executives: Board composition the refreshment of the membership of the Board and its Rod MacEachrane has decided to step down from his position as Committees and the appointment of all independent a Non-Executive Director at the AGM to be held in November 2013 Non-Executive Directors to each of the Committees the 2013 AGM having served nearly eight years on the Board.
Having with effect from 1 July 2012: reviewed the skills set and experience of each of the current Nonthe leadership needs of the Company to ensure the continued Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee was satis ed that the ability of the Group to compete effectively in the market: composition of the Board remained satisfactory and balanced and that the implementation of a diversity policy relating to the remaining Board members held a diverse range of skills, experience Board appointments: and background suf cient to drive the Boards strategy forward.
through performance evaluation, the time required from Accordingly, the Nomination Committee concluded that a replacement Non-Executive Directors to ful ll their duties: and for Rod was not necessary at this point in time.
The Nomination recommendations to the Board on the authorisation of con icts Committee will continue to monitor the composition of the Board of interest of new and existing Directors.
and recommend appointments both Executive and Non-Executive The Nomination Committee operates within its terms of reference which can be in the future as and when the needs of the business so require.
found on the Companys website: www.
Bob Lawson CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
