REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group also offers the Barratt Academy, a staged programme to The notice of each AGM and related papers are circulated to all enable employee development from Apprentice to site manager and also shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All in the Technical and Commercial disciplines.
We have introduced a new Directors, including the Chairmen of the Committees, attend the Sales Academy this year and have invited all of our current and newly AGM and are available to answer shareholder questions.
The Group recruited sales professionals to complete a training programme that Chief Executive also gives a presentation on the progress and is accredited by the Institute of Sales and Marketing Management.
performance of the Group prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Succession planning is in place across the Group and the leadership programmes assist with the development of individuals as part of Articles of Association the succession plan.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles contain regulations which deal with matters such as the appointment and vi Employee Sharesave Scheme removal of Directors, Directors interests and proceedings at general In February 2013 the Company invited all eligible employees of the Group and board meetings.
Any amendments to the Articles may be made to participate in the fifth grant under the Savings Related Share Option in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way Scheme the SRSOS which was approved by shareholders at the of special resolution at a general meeting.
Companys annual general meeting AGM held in November 2008.
This gave those individuals who had participated in previous grants under the SRSOS, but not used up all of their entitlement, the opportunity to increase their savings and gave other employees new and existing the chance to participate in the SRSOS and become more involved in the Groups performance.
As at 30 June 2013, approximately 47.5% of employees participate in the SRSOS.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of having an on-going relationship with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It fully supports the principles of the Code and the UK Stewardship Code which encourages open dialogue between companies and their shareholders.
The Group has arrangements in place which enable it to communicate effectively with shareholders in respect of matters such as business strategy, governance, remuneration and any senior management or Board changes.
Information about the Group, its Board and its business, including the interim and annual reports, interim management statements and trading updates, company announcements and details on services available to shareholders can be found on the Companys website at www.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required via a Regulatory Information Service and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the market and the Groups operations and objectives.
These meetings take place during the year but particularly after the annual and interim results announcements.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders at the request of either party and the Senior Independent Director is available to meet with major shareholders, as and when required, to gain an understanding of any issues and concerns.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee informs many investors and the principal investor advisory groups of the matters considered by the Committee and how the remuneration policy has been applied.
In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear understanding of, the views of major shareholders, the Group Finance Director presents regular reports to the Board on the Companys investor relations activities.
46 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
