REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial How the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities reporting cycle under its annual work programme, the Audit Committee throughout the 2012 13 financial year undertakes other responsibilities during the year including reviewing: the Audit Committees terms of reference: key internal control 1.
Integrity of financial reporting policies, including treasury, anti-bribery and whistleblowing: the The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the financial statements Auditor and Non-Audit Fees policy: and the external audit plan of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating and associated reports.
to the Groups and Companys financial performance.
This process included the review and debate over the following areas of signi cance Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee in relation to the integrity of financial reporting and took into account The Committee considered a number of key issues during the the views of Deloitte.
year including: the assumptions relating to the going concern basis of reporting i Land and WIP valuation of the financial statements, including reviewing the Groups The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect three-year plan, liquidity and financial covenant cover and of land and WIP valuation.
This review involved detailed consideration managements sensitivity analysis and mitigation plans: of the assumptions made upon speci c sites and in the context critical accounting judgements detailed in the financial statements of the current UK housing market.
on pages 99 to 101 in relation to goodwill, land and WIP impairment: and the provisioning required against the Groups The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management available for sale financial assets: and concluded that the valuation of our land and WIP remains appropriate.
Directors judgements that the exceptional items, detailed in note 3 of the financial statements on page 103, are non-recurring and by ii Going concern their nature warrant exceptional classi cation: The Audit Committee assessed the Groups available facilities, reports from Deloitte and management to ensure that: the ratio headroom and banking covenants.
The Audit Committee also of audit to non-audit services provided during the 2012 13 financial reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts year was within the Audit Committees guidelines: Deloitte had and adjustments for downturns in the housing market.
performed its services in accordance with its charter: and none of the non-audit services provided any threat to Deloittes The Audit Committee is satis ed that the going concern basis independence: and of preparation continues to be appropriate in the context of the participation in two training sessions during the year, facilitated by Groups funding and liquidity position.
the Group Financial Controller, Chief Internal Auditor and Deloitte upon material areas of accounting judgement and key accounting iii Annual goodwill and brand impairment review policies of the Group and received regular updates upon The Audit Committee considered the judgements made in relation governance related issues from the Group General Counsel to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model and Company Secretary and Deloitte.
Audit Committee effectiveness The Audit Committee also reviewed and approved sensitivities used During the year, IBE facilitated a review of the effectiveness of the by management which were consistent with the 2011 12 financial year Audit Committee, the outcome of which was generally positive.
and a reasonably possible change to model inputs including related disclosure, as required by IAS 36. iv Available for sale financial assets The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of the valuation of our available for sale financial assets.
This review involved detailed consideration of the assumptions made including the estimation of the market value of properties at the forecast redemption date and the determination of a suitable discount rate.
They also considered the appropriateness of our valuation in the context of the monetisation of some of the Groups equity share portfolio which was concluded in the financial year under review.
The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the valuation of our available for sale financial assets remains appropriate.
v Taxation The Audit Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the continued recognition of our deferred tax asset and agreed with managements judgements, concluding that the continued recognition of this asset remains appropriate.
52 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2.
The effectiveness of internal controls and the risk The structure deployed by the Group when assessing risks is set management process out in Managing Risk on pages 34 to 39 of the Business Review.
The Board believes that effective risk management is critical to the The key aspects of the Groups system of internal control and risk achievement of our strategic objectives.
On behalf of the Board, the management framework are as follows: Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls in relation to material financial risks and reviewed a i a clear organisational structure with fide ned levels of authority number of process improvements during the year.
The Audit Committee and responsibility for each operating division: is pleased with the progress made to date, and recognises that work will ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial need to be continued in these areas during the 2013 14 financial year.
and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis: In the year the Audit Committee: iii identi cation and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure spent time with management below Board level to understand they are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting risks and controls in a number of areas of the business including: system, so that risk identi cation and the control of risk are a routine commercial and construction controls: management changes: aspect of management responsibility.
Details of the management of and customer service: risk system utilised and the principal risks and uncertainties and their reviewed in detail the output of the biannual controls relevance to the operations and financial performance of the Group are certi cation process: set out in Managing Risk on pages 34 to 39 of the Business Review.
considered all whistleblowing reports and actions: Amongst other matters, the risks reviewed by management and the reviewed all internal audit results and action plans: and Board include: received updates from the Risk Committee and agreed future economic environment, including housing demand and areas of focus.
mortgage availability: land purchasing: The Board con rms in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code that liquidity: it has maintained sound risk management and internal control systems, attracting and retaining high calibre employees: seeking to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups availability of raw materials, subcontractors and suppliers: assets.
The Board is responsible for seeking to determine the nature Government regulation and planning policy: and extent of the signi cant risks that it is appropriate for the Group construction and new technologies: to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
It is the responsibility joint ventures and consortiums: of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and health and safety: and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems IT: and within the governance and policy framework approved by the Board.
iv assessment of compliance with internal control and risk management The risk management and internal control systems have been in place systems.
This assessment is supported by the Groups internal audit throughout the year ended 30 June 2013 and up to the date of this team which is responsible for undertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc Annual Report and Accounts, and their effectiveness is regularly audits and reporting to the Audit Committee, and, if necessary, the reviewed by the Board.
The risk management and internal control Board, on the operation and effectiveness of those systems and any systems and their effectiveness accord with the Turnbull guidance.
The planned programme of audit appraisals The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage risks across Group operations is approved by the Audit Committee.
It includes that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as the land rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, WIP and controls therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance subcontractor payment controls.
Where the internal audit team does against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal controls not have the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues they deploy external expertise.
can be identi ed promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
The Groups operations and nancing arrangements expose it to a The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in borrowing financial statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
and debt pro les, market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest A review of the consolidated accounts and financial statements rates.
The most signi cant of these to the Group is liquidity risk.
is completed by management to ensure that the financial position Accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and and results of the Group are appropriately re ected.
forecasting of cash ows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks are promptly identi ed and appropriate mitigating The Risk Committee see page 44 of the Corporate Governance Report, actions taken.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level subject to the general supervision of the Audit Committee, is responsible on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place procedures for the identi cation, assessment and reporting of risks and a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects for assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
During the year the of the other risks on its financial performance, in particular by using Risk Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference in order to financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest enhance their alignment with the responsibilities of the Audit Committee and currency rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial in respect of internal controls and risk management.
Such activities are delegated, by the Board, to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE turn regularly reports to the Board.
External auditor guidelines that are established by the Board, in accordance with i Re-appointment of auditor approved treasury policies, and the Treasury Operating Committee.
The Audit Committee took into account feedback on the effectiveness of the external audit from divisional, regional and Group Management who In accordance with principle C. 2.1. of the Code the Board regularly reviews were closely involved in both the interim and year end reporting process, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all when considering the re-appointment of Deloitte as the auditor to the material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls Company.
Deloitte was appointed as the auditor of the Company and risk management systems.
A risk framework has been developed for through an external tender process in 2007.
In accordance with UK all business processes by the internal audit function and approved by the ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of audit partners, Mark Audit Committee.
This framework forms the basis of the internal control Goodey replaced Graham Richardson as lead audit partner for the 2013 audit plan for the year ahead, which tests if controls are being applied financial year, having been selected, after consideration of and interview effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identi ed during of the short-listed candidates in July 2012.
Mr Goodey will continue as internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive lead audit partner until the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
As part of the Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis, and necessary actions transition in audit partner, Mr Goodey undertook a review of the external are immediately taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
audit arrangements across the Group, including a review of the audit approach and the skills and experience of the audit team, and presented During the course of its review of the internal control systems, the Board his audit plan to the Audit Committee.
After due consideration, the Audit has not identi ed nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses Committee concluded that it was not necessary to consider a tender which it has determined to be signi cant.
Therefore, a con rmation process this year.
Taking into account the refreshment of the audit of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
partner and senior team, combined with Deloittes objectivity and independence: Deloittes performance against the audit plan for the In addition, the management teams of all operating divisions identify 2012 13 financial year: and the quality of advice and assistance brought key risks in their monthly management reports to the Executive to bear and received throughout the year, the Audit Committee Committee and complete a control self-assessment twice a year in concluded that Deloittes performance as auditor to the Company which they con rm that they have applied appropriate levels of control.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board The Audit Committee, as a standing agenda item every six months, that a resolution re-appointing Deloitte as the auditor to the Company reviews the risk framework to determine if the system of internal control be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
That recommendation was subsequently remains effective and report on their findings to the Board when endorsed by the Board.
There are no contractual obligations which considering the draft interim and full year financial statements.
During restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
the year under review, the Executive Committee prioritised the risk framework by identifying the risks considered most signi cant to the During the year under review, the Audit Committee has noted the Group.
For each of the risks so identi ed, an assessment has been revisions to the Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council made of the probability and potential impact on the business and these FRC in September 2012 and, in particular, the requirement to put risks are reported on internally and reviewed during internal audits and the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, including a control self-assessments.
suggestion that the tendering should normally align with the five-yearly cycle of partner rotation.
Given that the audit was put out to tender in 3.
Whistleblowing 2007 and Mr Goodeys recent appointment, the Committee will assess Whistleblowing is a standing agenda item for every Audit Committee its tendering arrangements towards the conclusion of Mr Goodeys meeting.
The Chief Internal Auditor updates the Audit Committee period in of ce, or earlier if it has reason to do so.
regularly on any new whistleblowing incidents, on-going investigations and the outcome of any completed investigations.
The Audit Committee ii Auditor objectivity, audit effectiveness and independence assesses the adequacy of the Groups whistleblowing policy in During the year, the Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness accordance with the requirements of the Code as part of this process.
of the external audit and concluded that the audit process as a whole The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a robust procedure had been conducted robustly and that the team selected to undertake whereby individuals who become aware of possible improper, unethical the audit had done so thoroughly and professionally.
In coming to this or even illegal behaviour can either raise the matter with their manager conclusion the Audit Committee reviewed amongst other matters: or alternatively refer the matter to a con dential and independent Deloittes ful lment of the agreed audit plan and the absence telephone number the Whistleblowing Number which is available to of any variations from it: all employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Any issues reported reports highlighting the material issues and accounting judgements to the Whistleblowing Number are immediately brought to the attention that arose during the conduct of the audit: of the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Chief Internal Auditor reviews and feedback from Group and Regional management finance functions investigates the issue, and at his sole discretion can seek guidance from and the Chief Internal Auditor evaluating the performance appropriate individuals within the Group, such as the Group General of the audit: and Counsel and Company Secretary, as and when he deems necessary.
the report from the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team.
4. Review of accounting policies iii Auditor independence and non-audit fees policy The Audit Committee considered and agreed all proposed changes to The Audit Committee formally reviewed the policy which the Company the Groups accounting policies and discussed these with management has implemented on Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees the and Deloitte.
The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit 54 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Committee and the limited range of services which the auditor may the Groups auditor and that the tax advisory services had been provide without requiring prior approval of the Audit Committee.
managed by a partner who has no involvement with the audit of the Any services outside this scope must be approved by the Audit Group.
Consequently, the Audit Committee concluded that the level Committee in order to maintain auditor independence and to monitor of non-audit fees was justi ed and did not raise any concerns in terms non-audit fees incurred by the Group.
The Policy also sets out a of Deloittes independence as auditor to the Group.
Deloitte have also number of services which the external auditor is excluded from con rmed, in writing, that they are in agreement with this conclusion.
These include: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records In addition to tax advisory services, the Audit Committee also or financial statements: considered a recommendation from management for Deloitte to provide financial information systems design and implementation advice relating to the accounting treatment associated with the Groups relating to the financial statements or accounting records: re nancing and the sale of part of the Groups equity share portfolio to appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions, Rose Shared Equity LLP.
Deloitte con rmed that these services did not or : involve taking on a management role and posed no con ict to their audit actuarial services: independence.
The Audit Committee was therefore satis ed that this internal audit outsourcing services: work did not impact Deloittes independence and agreed for them to management functions or human resources: undertake the work.
broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and The Audit Committee con rms that there are no independence issues executive recruiting.
in respect of the auditor and that the Policy has been appropriately complied with throughout the year under review.
Under the Policy the Company is required to, and does, obtain written con rmation from Deloitte that they remain independent on an annual basis.
Deloitte have also provided a comprehensive report to the Audit Committee verifying that they have performed their audit and audit related services in line with independence requirements and assessing why Deloitte believe they remain independent within the requirements of the applicable regulations and their own professional standards, which were conclusions that the Audit Committee endorsed.
In reaching these conclusions the Audit Committee reviewed, amongst other matters, the: changes in senior audit personnel in the audit plan for the current year: report from Deloitte describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any con icts of interest: extent of the non-audit services provided by Deloitte: and the ratio of audit to non-audit fees more generally.
iv Non-audit services The Audit Committee, while being satis ed that the ratio of audit to non-audit fees for the 2012 13 financial year was within the guidelines contained within the Policy, considered this area carefully given that the non-audit fees excluding audit-related assurance services were almost equal to the audit fees including the audit-related assurance services incurred by the Group for the same period.
Details of the audit related and non-audit fees incurred by the Group can be found on page 104.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of non-audit fees in detail with the Group Finance Director to gain an understanding of their nature and the rationale for engaging Deloitte.
The Audit Committee noted that the majority of the non-audit fees related to audit-related assurance services which principally comprise the review of the Groups interim report, taxation compliance for which Deloitte were appointed on 1 December 2010 following a competitive tender process in which four of the leading audit rms took part, and also taxation advice upon the Groups re nancing, new joint ventures and various land acquisitions and disposals during the year.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee was satis ed that the work performed by Deloitte was appropriate in the context of ensuring their independence as auditor, particularly given that the audit-related assurance services, which principally comprise the review of the Groups interim report, can only be conducted by BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
