REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees The Board has established three principal committees to which it has delegated speci c responsibilities: the Audit pages 51 to 55 : the Remuneration pages 56 and 57 to 80 : and the Nomination pages 47 to 50 Committees each a Committee.
Each Committee is provided with suf cient resources to undertake the duties delegated to them and is able to seek advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and external advisers, as appropriate.
Membership and attendance at meetings of each of the Committees during the 2012 13 financial year are shown in Tables 2, 4 and 5 pages 47, 51 and 56 respectively.
Each of these Committees and the Board completed annual effectiveness reviews see pages 47, 49, 52 and 67.
Group management committees In addition to the Board committees there are a number of Group management committees which report directly to the Board or to a Board Committee to focus on speci c areas of the business.
The Group management committees are: the Executive: Risk: Land: Health and Safety: Operations: and Treasury Operating.
The membership and responsibilities of each of these are set out below.
The Executive Committee The Risk Committee The Land Committee Meets on a weekly basis to review operational Meets at least three times a year.
matters and also undertakes more in-depth monthly reviews.
Members: Members: The Group Finance Director, the Group Group Board Executive Directors, the Group Financial Controller, the Group General Members: Treasurer, the Director of Corporate Affairs Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Executive Board members, the Group General and the Group Sales & Marketing Director.
Safety, Health and Environment Director, Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group a Regional Managing Director, a Regional Sales & Marketing Director, the Group Director Other employees of the Group, such as Finance Director from a different region of Corporate Affairs, the Group Human the Group General Counsel and Company and the Chief Internal Auditor.
Resources Director and the Managing Director Secretary and the Group Heads of Legal of Wilson Bowden Developments.
Property Services, are invited to attend Other members of the Executive Committee, each meeting.
heads of function and senior managers attend Responsibilities: meetings by invitation having regard to the Supporting the Group Chief Executive in Responsibilities: business areas to be explored.
carrying out the day-to-day management Reviewing and approving all land acquisition of the activities of the Group.
Depending Responsibilities: on the value of the land acquisition, Board Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups approval may also be required, for example internal control policies and procedures for for any joint venture arrangement.
the identi cation, assessment and reporting of risks and assessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
The Health and Safety Committee The Operations Committee The Treasury Operating Committee Meets on a quarterly basis.
Meets as and when required by the needs of the business.
Members: Members: The Group Chief Operating Of cer, the Group The Group Chief Operating Of cer and the Members: General Counsel and Company Secretary, six Regional Managing Directors.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group the Group Safety, Health and Environment Finance Director and the Group Treasurer.
Director, the Group Design & Technical Members of the Executive Committee, heads Director, the Group Human Resources of Group functions and the Regional Finance Responsibilities: Director, a Construction Director, two Regional Directors attend the meetings by invitation Reviewing the Groups funding requirements Managing Directors representing the North on an ad-hoc basis.
and approving new debt facilities.
Further and South operations and a divisional safety, approval from the Board may be required health and environment manager.
Responsibilities: for certain types of funding and where Responsible for managing the level of funding is over and above Responsibilities: operational performance.
the levels delegated to the Treasury Developing the health and safety strategy Operating Committee.
for the Group: ensuring that health and safety policies and procedures are adequately implemented and adhered to throughout the Group: monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety systems and keeping abreast of changes in legislation surrounding safety, health and the environment.
44 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
