CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance reporting structure The Board Board Committees Group Management Committees Nomination Audit Remuneration Executive Operations Land Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Treasury Risk Health and Safety Operating Committee Committee Committee The Board The Board met on ten occasions during the financial year to review and The Company is led and controlled by the Board, which has overall approve a variety of matters including those speci cally reserved to them: responsibility for the conduct of the business of the Group and ensuring that the obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and Activities undertaken during the 2012 13 financial year met.
The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction of the including Matters Reserved : Group and ensuring that it has adequate resources and appropriate off-site strategic review of the business of the Group: controls, values and standards in place to deliver its strategy within visits to the Central and Northern business regions: a framework that enables risk to be identi ed and managed.
Each review of senior management succession plans: Board Director is aware of his her responsibilities, individually and external facilitation of an effectiveness review of the collectively, to promote the long-term success of the Group.
Board, its Committees and individual directors: approval of the strategy and management of the Group: The names, responsibilities and other details of each of the Board ensuring adequate financial resources are available for Directors are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Membership of the Board the business: throughout the financial year and attendance at each of its meetings review and approval of half-yearly and annual results: are set out in Table 1. interim management statements and trading updates: review and approval of dividend and treasury policies: Table 1 Membership and attendance at Board meetings review and updating of internal control and risk management systems and processes: The Board approval of material land investments transactions: and Chairman: Bob Lawson approval of core policies relating to, amongst other matters, Bob Lawson 10 10 safety, health and environment and employee conduct.
Mark Clare 10 10 David Thomas 10 10 In addition to a formal strategic review, the Board usually visits two of Steven Boyes 10 10 the six Group operating regions each year on a rotational basis.
During Bob Davies 4 4 these visits, which are over a two day period, Board members receive Richard Akers 10 10 presentations from the regional management teams and also conduct Tessa Bamford 9 10 site visits.
During the 2012 13 financial year the Board met in the Nina Bibby 6 6 Central and the Northern regions of the business.
Separate to these Rod MacEachrane 10 10 formal visits, individual Non-Executive Directors may also undertake Mark Rolfe 10 10 informal site visits annually as part of their direct engagement with Bob Davies stepped down from his positions as Non-Executive Director and Senior employees.
The Board has also enhanced the frequency of the Independent Director of the Company on 14 November 2012. brie ngs that it receives from the Regional Managing Directors who are Tessa Bamford explained the reasons for her absence from a meeting and provided her views on the items of business to the Chairman.
not hosting annual site visits, together with presentations and updates Mark Rolfe was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from 14 November 2012. from key support functions, such as information technology, sales and Nina Bibby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012. marketing, human resources and health and safety.
This assists the Notes: Board with assessing the risks affecting the business, having had the 1 Clive Fenton resigned from the Board on 5 July 2012. bene t of direct input from those responsible for managing such risks 2 10 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director: 10 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
