Roles of Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Employment policy and involvement Independent Director i Employment policy The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board The Group is committed to seeking to develop the talents of its and the Group Chief Executive is clearly fide ned in writing and has employees so that they can maximise their career potential and seeks been approved by the Board.
to provide rewarding careers in an atmosphere that engenders equal opportunities for all.
Selection for employment and promotion is based The Chairman, Bob Lawson, leads the Board in the determination of on merit, following an objective assessment of ability and experience strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for: of candidates after giving full and fair consideration to all applications organising the business of the Board: setting its agenda and ensuring including individuals with disabilities.
The Group is also committed that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination particular strategic issues: facilitating the effective contribution of the of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive provide equal opportunities in respect of issues such as training, and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring that the Board receives timely, career development and promotion for all existing or potential staff accurate and clear information so as to properly conduct its business: irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical ensuring new directors participate in a full and formal induction process: disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made making certain that the continued development needs of the Directors to retain and support employees who become disabled whilst working are identi ed and addressed: and ensuring effective communication with within the Group.
The Chairman is supported by Tom Keevil, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, in carrying out these duties.
ii Employee engagement The Board recognises that appropriate employee engagement Mark Clare, the Group Chief Executive, is responsible for the day-to-day is a key factor in the long-term success of the Group.
It utilises a management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with comprehensive employee engagement programme with the aim of overall strategy and policy as determined by the Board.
He carries out creating a strong, shared culture.
All employees are invited to take part duties delegated to him by the Board through the Executive Committee in an on-line engagement survey each year and the results of this see page 44 of this report.
survey are fed back to each operating division, who use the results to formulate plans for maintaining or improving engagement in the The Senior Independent Director, Mark Rolfe, has speci c responsibility following year.
Details are provided on page 28 of the Business Review.
for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, at least annually.
Details can be found on page 49.
He is also responsible for ensuring that, where iii Employee communications required, he is available to shareholders to: i address any material issues A key part of effective employee engagement is communication.
The or concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive have Company seeks to ensure that all signi cant events, economic factors failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order for the Company and financial updates and the impact of these on the performance to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
of the Group are communicated to employees through email alerts, core brie ngs and regular newsletters.
Additionally, the Group Chief Executive Information and support regularly briefs senior and middle management via conference calls and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives bulletins which gives them the opportunity to ask questions and enter accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with into dialogue.
Individually and collectively, the Board and the Executive an agenda, brie ng papers and comprehensive operating and financial Committee members visit operating divisions and sites frequently management reports for the period under review, generally five working in order to assess operational performance, engage with employees days before any Board meeting.
The Group General Counsel and on a one-to-one basis and gain first-hand experience of employees Company Secretary attends all Board and Committee meetings and all aspirations and concerns.
Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the iv Graduate recruitment discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment and Development Programme consisting of a two-year multi-disciplinary programme of both on-job All Directors are provided with a rolling three-year schedule of proposed and off-job modules.
The Group currently has 80 graduates on the meeting dates.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting is invited programme, of which 57 commenced their graduate training in to provide their views to the Chairman ahead of that meeting, having September 2013.
This year our Future Talent Strategy includes the reviewed the agenda, brie ng papers and management information.
introduction of a one-year Accelerated Graduate Scheme in Sales and Reasons for non-attendance are recorded by the Group General Counsel Construction, paid Internships, a new Construction Foundation degree and Company Secretary and either he or the Chairman will, thereafter, and the recruitment of Trade Apprentices.
Over the next three years we meet with any absent Director to go through any action points which are plan to recruit around 600 trainees onto our schemes.
of relevance to that Director.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted for approval at the next meeting.
v Employee training and development The Group is committed to providing employee training and development at all levels of the organisation.
It has introduced a suite of leadership and management development programmes aimed at all levels within the organisation.
The programmes are designed and delivered internally and are tailored to the needs of the business.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
