REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Board balance Non-Executive Directors Tenure including the Chairman At the end of the financial year, the Board comprised nine members, 0-3 years 2 including the Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors and three Executive 4-6 years 3 Directors.
The Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to 7-9 years 1 the size and nature of the business.
In addition, the combination of the experience and calibre of the Non-Executive Directors collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds and experience and their varying lengths of service, further enhances this balance thereby mitigating the risk of group think.
During the year the Nomination Committee assessed the individual and Appointment and re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors composite skill sets of the Non-Executive Directors and concluded that The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board would bene t from additional expertise in the area of digital the Board and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable marketing.
Accordingly, it recommended the appointment of Nina Bibby, candidates have been identi ed.
When a vacancy arises the then Global Chief Marketing Of cer of Barclaycard, due to her broad Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, business experience and wealth of digital marketing expertise.
independence and knowledge on the Board.
It then prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that appointment.
Board independence The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments are The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive made, based on merit having regard to the need to maintain a balance Directors remaining independent throughout their appointment of skills and experience on the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, as this enables them to provide objective advice and guidance to the refreshment of Board memberships.
External recruitment consultants Executive Directors through the use of their wide business experience are used where appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors are also able to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed, subject to re-election by Executive Directors and to satisfy themselves with the integrity of the shareholders and statutory provisions relating to the removal of directors, financial information considered by the Board and provided to the by the Board, for an initial three-year term and normally serve a second Companys shareholders.
In addition, their independence is of utmost three-year term.
Beyond this a third term of up to three years may be importance when considering the appointment or removal of Executive served subject to particularly rigorous review and taking into account Directors and in the determination of succession planning for the the need for progressive refreshment of the Board.
The Articles, in Board and other key individuals within the Group.
The Nomination accordance with the Code, require any Non-Executive Director who Committee has, during the year, reviewed and con rmed to the Board, has served nine years or more on the Board continuously to be subject that it remains satis ed, that all of the Non-Executive Directors, to annual re-appointment.
including Nina Bibby see page 50, are independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might in uence During the year the Nomination Committee appointed the Zygos their independence or judgement.
Details of their interests as Partnership Zygos, an independent external recruitment rm, to assist shareholders are contained in Table 20 on page 78 of the it throughout the recruitment process for a Non-Executive Director with Remuneration Report.
expertise in digital marketing in order to enhance and complement the existing skill sets of the Board.
Zygos does not have any other connections Bob Lawson was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Company with the Group.
Zygos provided the Nomination Committee with details of with effect from 1 July 2008 and was considered to be independent on a number of potential candidates from varying backgrounds, with different his appointment.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered skills and of both genders.
A short-list of three candidates was identi ed Bob Lawsons other signi cant commitments, his Non-Executive and each of them was invited for an interview with the members of the Chairmanship of Genus plc and his directorship of The Federation of Nomination Committee and subsequently all Directors.
The merits of each Groundwork Trusts, and concluded that they do not impinge upon his candidate were assessed by reference to their relative experience, availability to ful l his duties to the Company.
These commitments were potential contribution to the business of the Board, their potential ability to also considered during the annual review of the effectiveness of the promote the success of the Company and how their skills would Chairman led by the Senior Independent Director and the same complement those of the existing Board.
It was this process that led to the conclusion was reached.
appointment of Nina Bibby to the Board on 3 December 2012.
Split of Directors The letters of appointment of all Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered of ce during normal Chairman 1 of ce hours and will also be available at the 2013 AGM for 15 minutes Executive Directors 3 before and throughout the meeting.
The letters of appointment clearly set out the time commitment expected from each Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors 5 to ensure they satisfactorily perform their duties.
Each Non-Executive Director con rms that he she is able to allocate the time commitment required at the time of his her appointment and thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman.
48 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
