REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Induction respect of any changes to the authorisations, or terms and conditions The Nomination Committee, under the stewardship of the Chairman, applied, that may be required.
Each Director is responsible for ensures that on joining the Company, each new Director participates notifying, and is aware of their responsibility to notify, the Chairman in a full and formal induction process.
Nina Bibby took part in this process and or the Board of any new con icts or possible con icts and of any which included health and safety training, site visits, meetings with all change in circumstances relating to authorisations already given.
The Board members and key external advisers and senior and operational Board, when authorising any con ict or possible con ict of interest, management teams across the business.
Nina was also provided with does not count in the quorum the Director whose con ict or possible an induction pack containing general and speci c information relating to con ict is being discussed and reserves the right to exclude a Director her role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of Board minutes and from a meeting whilst a con ict or possible con ict is being considered.
various policies and procedures, details of her duties as a director of a The Board may revoke or vary any authorisation at any time.
listed plc and other obligations under the various regulations governing the Company.
In addition, all new Directors attend the Directors Forum Prior to the appointment of Nina Bibby as a Non-Executive Director, hosted by Spencer Stuart, which provides them with the opportunity to the Nomination Committee considered the fact that Nina was the enhance their boardroom skills through the sharing of knowledge and then Global Chief Marketing Of cer of Barclaycard.
At that point, the best practice with fellow directors from various industries.
Nomination Committee con rmed to the Board that it was satis ed that Nina Bibby is not con icted and is independent, a conclusion that the Development Board endorsed.
In May 2013, Nina Bibby resigned from her position In January of each year the Board meets for a full day to review and at Barclaycard to take up an opportunity with O2 as their Marketing develop the overall business strategy of the Group which includes and Consumer Director which will commence in November 2013.
The presentations from senior management within the Group as well as Nomination Committee considered this new position and concluded external professionals.
In January 2013 the Board discussed the that there was no con ict of interest.
Groups growth plans and a number of strategic issues including mortgage availability, customer demand, planning issues, land supplies Diversity and Government programmes.
The review is increasingly focusing The Nomination Committee continues to review the recommendations on on the medium and long-term issues impacting the demand for the gender diversity contained within Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, provision of homes.
as part of its annual effectiveness exercise.
The Nomination Committees primary goal remains to identify the most appropriate candidates to join The Nomination Committee ensures that Directors continue to update the Board and other senior positions within the Group.
However, in their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company by attending accordance with its terms of reference it also seeks to ensure that in appropriate external seminars and training courses, meeting with considering succession planning it has due regard to the bene ts of senior management and visiting regional and divisional operating diversity for the Board and for the Group as a whole, including gender.
of ces and sites collectively and individually.
During the year under The Groups policy on diversity relating to Board appointments, as review, Directors received presentations and updates on matters such adopted by the Board during the 2011 12 financial year, can be found as key accounting issues, narrative reporting, changes to the Code on the Companys website www.
The and the new reporting requirements on executive remuneration.
The Nomination Committee and the Board recognise the need to ensure that Chairman regularly reviews training requirements and annually agrees the business re ects a diverse workforce, at all levels of seniority, when development needs with individual Directors.
considering Board appointments and internal promotions, whilst always seeking to ensure that each post is offered strictly on merit to the best Directors con icts of interest available candidate.
On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act codi ed the duty to avoid con icts of interest, by which Directors have a duty to avoid As at 30 June 2013, the aggregate representation of women on a situation in which they have, or may have, a direct or indirect con ict the Board was 22% two out of nine directors and one-third of the of interest or possible con ict of interest with the Company.
This duty Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
Table 3 shows the applies to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity number of men and women employed, as at 30 June 2013, across the regardless of whether the Company could have taken advantage of it.
Group split between PLC Directors, Senior Managers and Employees: The Articles were amended at the AGM held on 18 November 2008 to include a general power for the Board to authorise such con icts.
Table 3 Gender split Men Women The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice No.
% Total guidance, authorised the Nomination Committee to oversee the process PLC Directors for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board concerning any Executive and Non-Executive 778 2 22 9 actual and or potential con icts of interest which arise or may arise in Senior Managers 230 89 29 11 259 relation to each member of the Board, including details of any terms and Employees 3,158 67 1,577 33 4,735 conditions which it deems necessary to impose on any authorisation Total workforce 3,395 68 1,608 32 5,003 given.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors con icts of interest which is reviewed annually.
Following this review he will make recommendations to the Board in 50 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
