Retirement and re-election of Directors Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting statements The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for re-election for the election or re-election of the Directors are set out on pages 40 by shareholders at the first AGM following their initial appointment to the and 41 of this report and in the Notice of the 2013 AGM.
These details Board and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
All Board illustrate the complementary diverse range of skill sets including general members will, in accordance with the Code, stand for election or business, commerce, financial, housebuilding and digital marketing re-election as applicable by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM with knowledge that Board members possess and apply to ensuring the exception of Rod MacEachrane see page 47 irrespective of their effective stewardship.
Details of the Executive Directors service date of appointment and length of service on the Board.
Each of the contracts can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 64.
Directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation process and the Nomination Committee, and the Board, are satis ed that they The Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions each continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their to be put forward at the 2013 AGM relating to the election and respective roles.
Board performance evaluation The Board performance evaluation cycle Year 1: External evaluation Year 2: Internal questionnaire Year 3: Internal questionnaire by independent consultants led by the Chairman of the Board led by the Chairman of the Board The 2012 13 financial year board performance evaluation process IBE interviews Board IBE attends Board and IBE interviews key internal IBE presents findings to Directors and Group Committee Meetings and external advisers the Chairman and the Board Company Secretary The Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual Focus areas for 2013 14 evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees and of The Board and each of its Committees have already begun to make individual Directors.
Given that the last external consultant undertook progress in implementing the recommendations made by IBE and the the performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees for the Board will, with the assistance of the Nomination Committee, conclude 2009 10 financial year, the Board agreed in line with best practice and the review against these objectives during the 2013 14 financial year.
the Code, that it would, for the 2012 13 financial year, carry out the Additionally, the Board will continue to focus on risk management and performance evaluation deploying an external facilitator.
IBE were succession planning during the 2013 14 financial year.
retained from a shortlist of three candidates to provide a full Progress with 2011 12 focus areas perspective on the Boards effectiveness.
IBE have no other During the year the Board and its Committees addressed all the connections with the Company.
issues raised as part of the 2011 12 performance evaluation process, Areas covered by the evaluation including enhancing training and development and increased The Board evaluation process followed by IBE is shown in emphasis on strategy development.
IBEs evaluation covered the performance Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors of the Board and its Committees on various areas, including: In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman contribution to strategy and shareholder accountability: met with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive risk management: Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent financial and operating reporting: Director, met without the Chairman being present, to assess the succession planning including diversity : performance of the Chairman and provided feedback from the inter-relationships between the Board and its Committees: and process.
There were no issues of any substance arising from the Board Committees and decision making.
review of the Chairmans performance and there was unanimous Key findings support for him.
In addition, the Chairman met with each Director A comprehensive analysis was presented by IBE to the Board.
individually to discuss their contribution to the Board and their The findings were positive in terms of Board culture, governance performance as Directors during the year under review.
and compliance, and shareholder communication.
IBEs principal recommendations were aimed at streamlining the papers and presentations made to the Board to allow more time for the Board to focus on the medium to long-term strategy of the Group, particularly as the market continues to improve.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
