REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial How the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities reporting cycle under its annual work programme, the Audit Committee throughout the 2012 13 financial year undertakes other responsibilities during the year including reviewing: the Audit Committees terms of reference: key internal control 1.
Integrity of financial reporting policies, including treasury, anti-bribery and whistleblowing: the The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the financial statements Auditor and Non-Audit Fees policy: and the external audit plan of the Group and the Company and all formal announcements relating and associated reports.
to the Groups and Companys financial performance.
This process included the review and debate over the following areas of signi cance Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee in relation to the integrity of financial reporting and took into account The Committee considered a number of key issues during the the views of Deloitte.
year including: the assumptions relating to the going concern basis of reporting i Land and WIP valuation of the financial statements, including reviewing the Groups The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect three-year plan, liquidity and financial covenant cover and of land and WIP valuation.
This review involved detailed consideration managements sensitivity analysis and mitigation plans: of the assumptions made upon speci c sites and in the context critical accounting judgements detailed in the financial statements of the current UK housing market.
on pages 99 to 101 in relation to goodwill, land and WIP impairment: and the provisioning required against the Groups The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management available for sale financial assets: and concluded that the valuation of our land and WIP remains appropriate.
Directors judgements that the exceptional items, detailed in note 3 of the financial statements on page 103, are non-recurring and by ii Going concern their nature warrant exceptional classi cation: The Audit Committee assessed the Groups available facilities, reports from Deloitte and management to ensure that: the ratio headroom and banking covenants.
The Audit Committee also of audit to non-audit services provided during the 2012 13 financial reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts year was within the Audit Committees guidelines: Deloitte had and adjustments for downturns in the housing market.
performed its services in accordance with its charter: and none of the non-audit services provided any threat to Deloittes The Audit Committee is satis ed that the going concern basis independence: and of preparation continues to be appropriate in the context of the participation in two training sessions during the year, facilitated by Groups funding and liquidity position.
the Group Financial Controller, Chief Internal Auditor and Deloitte upon material areas of accounting judgement and key accounting iii Annual goodwill and brand impairment review policies of the Group and received regular updates upon The Audit Committee considered the judgements made in relation governance related issues from the Group General Counsel to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model and Company Secretary and Deloitte.
Audit Committee effectiveness The Audit Committee also reviewed and approved sensitivities used During the year, IBE facilitated a review of the effectiveness of the by management which were consistent with the 2011 12 financial year Audit Committee, the outcome of which was generally positive.
and a reasonably possible change to model inputs including related disclosure, as required by IAS 36. iv Available for sale financial assets The Audit Committee reviewed the judgements made in respect of the valuation of our available for sale financial assets.
This review involved detailed consideration of the assumptions made including the estimation of the market value of properties at the forecast redemption date and the determination of a suitable discount rate.
They also considered the appropriateness of our valuation in the context of the monetisation of some of the Groups equity share portfolio which was concluded in the financial year under review.
The Audit Committee agreed with the judgements made by management and concluded that the valuation of our available for sale financial assets remains appropriate.
v Taxation The Audit Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the continued recognition of our deferred tax asset and agreed with managements judgements, concluding that the continued recognition of this asset remains appropriate.
52 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
