105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 24 Report of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee comprised all of the policy on the engagement of KPMG to supply the Directors except Mr P Niven and the Chairman non-audit services: of the Board, Mr C Russell.
It is chaired by Mr N J the implications of proposed new accounting M Tostevin.
As explained on page 22, the Board has, standards and regulatory changes: and since 1 January 2014, determined Mr Niven to be an the receipt of an AAF report from the Managers.
Mr Niven has therefore been As part of its review of the scope and results of appointed to the Audit Committee since the year the audit, during the year the Audit Committee end.
Mrs Trudi Clark, who was appointed as an considered and approved KPMGs plan for the audit independent non-executive Director on 4 February of the financial statements for the year ended 2014, has also been appointed to the committee.
At the conclusion of the audit, The duties of the committee include reviewing the KPMG did not highlight any issues to the Audit Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal Committee which would cause it to qualify its audit controls, and the terms of appointment and report, nor did it highlight any fundamental internal remuneration of the auditor, KPMG Channel Islands control weaknesses.
KPMG issued an unqualied Limited KPMG, including its independence and audit report which is included on pages 29 to 31. objectivity.
It is also the forum through which KPMG In relation to the provision of non-audit services by reports to the Board of Directors.
The committee the auditor, it has been agreed that all non-audit work meets at least twice yearly including at least one to be carried out by the auditor must be approved in meeting with KPMG.
advance by the Audit Committee and any special The Audit Committee met on three occasions during projects must also be approved in advance.
In the year and the attendance of each of the members addition to statutory audit fees of 65,000 2012: is set out on page 22.
In the due course of its duties, 63,000, KPMG received audit-related fees of the committee had direct access to KPMG and 13,000 for the year 2012: 19,000 which related senior members of the Managers investment principally to a review of the interim financial company team.
Amongst other things, the Audit information and certication of bond compliance Committee considered and reviewed the following certicates.
The Audit Committee does not consider that the provision of such non-audit services is a matters and reported thereon to the Board: threat to the objectivity and independence of the the annual and half-yearly reports and accounts conduct of the audit.
and interim management statements: As part of the review of auditor independence and the accounting polices of the Group: effectiveness, KPMG have confirmed that they are the principal risks faced by the Company and the independent of the Company and have complied effectiveness of the Companys internal control with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating KPMG, environment: the Audit Committee has taken into consideration the the effectiveness of the audit process and related standing, skills and experience of the rm and the non-audit services and the independence and audit team.
The Committee assesses the objectivity of KPMG, their re-appointment, effectiveness of the audit process through the remuneration and terms of engagement: reporting it receives from KPMG in respect of both Significant Matters Considered by the Audit Committee in Relation to the Financial Statements Matter Action Valuation of the Investment Property Portfolio The Groups property portfolio accounted for 83 per cent The Board and Audit Committee reviewed the outcomes of its total assets as at 31 December 2013.
Although of the valuation process throughout the year and valued by an independent firm of valuers, CBRE Limited, discussed the detail of each of the quarterly valuations the valuation of the investment property portfolio is with the Managers at Board Meetings.
The Managers inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement by liaise with the valuers on a regular basis and meet with the valuers.
Errors in the valuation could have a material them prior to the production of each quarterly valuation.
impact on the Companys net asset value.
Further The Board was represented at most of the quarterly information about the property portfolio and inputs to the valuation meetings with CBRE Limited during the year, valuations are set out in note 9 to the accounts.
including the meeting in advance of the production of the year end valuation.
In addition, this is the main area of audit focus and, accordingly, the Audit Committee receives detailed verbal and written reports from KPMG on this matter.
24 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 25 Report of the Directors continued the half year and year end Report and accounts.
The respect to the management of their clients investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is committee remains satisfied that KPMG continues to monitored by the Managers group audit committee provide effective independent challenge in carrying which receives regular reports from the Managers out its responsibilities.
On the basis of this audit, risk and compliance department.
Procedures assessment, the Audit Committee has recommended are in place to capture and evaluate failings and the continuing appointment of KPMG to the Board.
weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken Following professional guidelines, the audit partner to remedy any significant issues identied from this rotates after five years and this is the third year for monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
The appointment has not been No significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the put out to tender since the Companys launch in Company were identied in the year under review nor 2005 and, in accordance with FRC guidance, it is the to the date of this report.
current intention of the Audit Committee that the appointment will not be put out to tender until the The review procedures detailed above have been in end of the next partners five year rotation term.
place throughout the year and up to the date of KPMGs performance will, however, continue to be approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is reviewed annually taking into account all relevant satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures guidance and best practice.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Internal Controls misstatement or loss.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal It has therefore established a process designed to audit function.
It has decided that the systems and meet the particular needs of the Company in procedures employed by the Managers and the managing the risks to which it is exposed, Company Secretary, including their internal audit consistent with the internal control guidance issued functions and the work carried out by the by the Financial Reporting Council.
Companys external auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, As part of this process, a matrix has been created which safeguards the Companys assets, is that identies the Companys key functions, including maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the those carried out by the Managers and other service Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
providers, and the individual activities undertaken within those functions.
From this, the Board has identied the Companys principal risks and the controls employed to manage those risks.
These are N J M Tostevin reviewed at each quarterly Board Meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Board also monitors the investment performance of the Company against its stated objective and 11 April 2014 comparable companies and reviews the Companys activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
In addition, the Board receives quarterly reports from the Company Secretary in respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the Company.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the Managers Report on Policies and Procedures in Operation and Tests in accordance with AAF 01 06 for the year ended 31 December 2013 that has been prepared for their investment company clients.
Containing a report from independent external accountants, the report sets out the Managers control policies and procedures with Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25
