105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 22 Corporate Governance Statement The Company is a member of the Association of recommended by principle 1 of the AIC Code and Investment Companies the AIC.
4.1 of the UK Corporate Governance therefore considered the principles and Code, as this role is fullled by the Chairman of the recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Audit Committee.
Except for that matter, the Governance issued in February 2013 the AIC Company complied throughout the year with the Code by reference to the AIC Corporate recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant Governance Guide for Investment Companies issued provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which Since all the Directors are non-executive, in can be found at www.
The AIC Code, accordance with the AIC Code and the preamble to as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the the UK Corporate Governance Code, the provisions principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the role Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in of the chief executive and, except in so far as they September 2012, which can be found at apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors www.
uk, as well as setting out additional remuneration, are not relevant to the Company, and principles and recommendations on issues specic are not reported on further.
The AIC Code also The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all incorporates a framework of best practice for Directors to retire by rotation at least every three Guernsey-domiciled member companies.
However, in accordance with the The Board considers that it is appropriate to report recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK against the principles and recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code the Board has agreed AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which that all Directors will retire annually and, if incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and Commission issued a Finance Sector Code of experience are considered to add signicantly to the Corporate Governance the GFSC Code.
As the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the Company already reports against the AIC Code and overall length of service of any of the Companys the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to Directors, including the Chairman, has been meet the requirements of the GFSC Code and has imposed.
therefore not reported further on its compliance with During the year the performance of the Board, that code.
committees and individual Directors was evaluated The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors.
through an assessment process led by the Other than Mr P Niven, all Directors were considered Chairman.
This process involved the completion of by the Board to be independent during the year.
questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Mr Niven was, until March 2013, a non-executive Company, discussions with individual Directors and director of the Companys largest shareholder, individual feedback from the Chairman to each of the Resolution Limited.
Having severed all business links Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by with Resolution, which is no longer resident in the Chairman of the Audit Committee in consultation Guernsey, he then represented that company at with all the other Directors.
charitable and similar events in Guernsey that may be The table below sets out the number of scheduled supportive of that community.
This role ceased on Board and committee meetings held during the year 1 January 2014 and since that date the Board has and the number of meetings attended by each determined Mr Niven to be an independent Director.
In addition to these scheduled meetings, The Directors do not consider it appropriate to there were a further 20 Board and Board committee appoint a Senior Independent Director as meetings held in Guernsey during the year.
Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Russell 5 5 n a n a 2 2 1 1 J G Hooley retired 31 December 2013 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 M R Moore 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 P Niven 5 5 n a n a n a n a 1 1 B W Sweetland 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 N J M Tostevin 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 23 Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Nomination Committee Company, seek independent professional advice on The Nomination Committee comprises all of the any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of Directors and is chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Company maintains appropriate considers that, given its size, it would be directors and ofcers liability insurance.
unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate nomination committee which did not include the The basis on which the Company aims to generate entire Board and believes that this enables all value over the longer term is set out in its objective Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that and investment policy as contained on page 7.
The committee is convened for the purpose of management agreement between the Company and considering the appointment of additional Directors FCIB sets out the matters over which the Managers as and when considered appropriate.
Any have authority and the limits beyond which Board appointments to the Board are based on merit, but approval must be sought.
All other matters, including in considering appointments the Nomination investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, Committee also takes into account the ongoing gearing, corporate governance procedures and risk requirements of the Company and the need to have management, are reserved for the approval of the a balance of skills, experience, independence, Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least diversity, including gender, and knowledge of the quarterly and receives full information on the Company within the Board.
The Directors have not Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities set any measurable objectives in relation to the and other relevant information in advance of Board diversity of the Board.
No new Directors were meetings.
appointed during the year, although, as reported in Throughout the year a number of committees have the Chairmans Statement on page 6, Mrs Trudi Clark been in place.
Those committees are the Audit has been appointed as a Director since the year-end.
Committee, the Management Engagement Whenever there are new appointments, these Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Directors receive an induction from the Managers and committees operate within clearly dened terms of Company Secretary on joining the Board.
All reference which are available for inspection upon Directors receive other relevant training, collectively or request at the Companys registered ofce.
Management Engagement Committee Relations with Shareholders During the year the Management Engagement The Company proactively seeks the views of its Committee comprised all of the Directors except shareholders and places great importance on Mr P Niven and it was chaired by Mr J G Hooley communication with them.
The Board receives who retired as a Director on 31 December 2013.
As regular reports from the Managers and brokers on explained on page 22, the Board has, since the views of shareholders, and the Chairman and 1 January 2014, determined Mr Niven to be an other Directors meet with major shareholders at least annually and make themselves available to meet independent Director.
Mr Niven has therefore been shareholders when required to discuss any significant appointed as a member and Chairman of the issues that have arisen and address shareholder Management Engagement Committee since the concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General year-end.
Mrs Trudi Clark, who was appointed as an Meeting to be held on 21 May 2014 is set out on independent non-executive Director on 4 February pages 56 and 57.
It is hoped that this will provide a 2014, has also been appointed to the committee.
forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to The committee reviews the appropriateness of the meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers continuing appointment together with the Managers of the Company.
The Annual Report and terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
It Notice of Annual General Meeting are posted to also reviews the terms and quality of service shareholders at least 20 working days before the received from other service providers on a regular Annual General Meeting.
As stated in the Remuneration Report on page 26, the full Board determines the level of Directors fees On behalf of the Board and accordingly there is no separate Remuneration Committee.
C Russell Director 11 April 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
