CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the Nominations Committee Group in communications with Shareholders and believes that being transparent in describing how we see the market and the Chairman: Garry Watts prospects for the business is extremely important.
We intend to Other members: Ian Barlow, Andrew Adcock, Annette Court communicate with Shareholders in a number of different ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half year results will be a Biographies are detailed on pages 22 and 23. combination of presentations, group calls and one-to-one meetings.
The full and half-year reporting will be followed by Welcome to the Companys first Nominations Committee Report.
investor meetings in a variety of locations where we have All of the members of the Committee are Non-Executive institutional Shareholders.
We will also regularly meet with Directors.
existing and prospective Shareholders to update them on our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company and The Committee met once during the year with attendance periodically arrange a visit to the business to give analysts and disclosed on page 26. major Shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our business.
These visits and meetings are principally undertaken Roles and responsibilities by the CEO, COO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations with any The main responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the relevant material being uploaded to the corporate website so Board with succession planning and with the selection process being available to all Shareholders.
for the appointment of new Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman, and to have oversight The Board intends to receive regular updates on the views of its of senior management succession planning.
Shareholders from the Head of Investor Relations and its brokers, which will be a standing agenda item for all Board meetings.
This involves: In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to Evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience meet Shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from on the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a the arrangements as described above.
particular appointment: Annual General Meeting Overseeing the search process: and The Companys first AGM since listing will be held at 10 am on Evaluating an annual succession planning report from the CEO 21 May 2014 at Building One, Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High in relation to senior management.
Full details of the meeting are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting sent with this Report.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the website at www.
AGM and those Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged The Groups policy on diversity is detailed within our Corporate to vote using the proxy card enclosed with this Report, or Social Responsibility report on page 18. electronically, by following the instructions set out in the Notice of Meeting.
All documents relating to the AGM are Main activities available on the Companys website at: www.
During the short period since IPO, the Committee had one The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication meeting with the principal work being to review its terms of with private Shareholders.
In addition to the formal business, reference and set out an agenda for 2014. there will be a presentation by the CEO, COO and CFO on the performance of the Company and its future development.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Committees, together with the Executive Directors, will be available to answer Shareholders questions at the AGM.
Garry Watts Chairman of the Nominations Committee 10 March 2014 28 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
