Governance processes Audit Committee The Audit Committee usually invites the full Board, plus the COO and the external Auditor, to attend each meeting.
Other members Chairman: Ian Barlow of management attend as and when requested.
The Committee Other members: Annette Court, Andrew Adcock held a private session with the external Auditor without members of management being present at the February 2014 meeting.
Biographies are detailed on pages 22 and 23.
Main activities Welcome to the Companys first Audit Committee Report.
During 2013, in the short period since IPO, the Committee had two meetings, with the principal work being: All members of the Committee were appointed in August 2013.
Each member is an independent Director and deemed to be Adopting the Committees terms of reference: these are set out financially literate by virtue of their business experience with the on our website at: foxtonsgroup.
co. uk: Chairman, Ian Barlow, being a chartered accountant and chartered Reviewing drafts of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts: tax adviser.
The Committee met twice during the year with attendance disclosed on page 26.
Reviewing the quarter 3 Interim Management Statement: Reviewing the Groups accounting policies and key accounting Role and responsibilities judgements with particular focus on: The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to protect the interests of the Accounting for intangibles and the annual impairment review, Shareholders with regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, where there is very significant headroom: audit, risk management and internal controls.
This comprises: Revenue recognition including the deferred lettings provision Financial reporting for which policy and practice is considered appropriate and is Monitoring and reviewing the Groups accounting policies, unchanged from previous periods: and practices and significant accounting judgements: and Capitalisation of expenditure principally on new branches Receiving the annual and half yearly financial statements and where the policy is unchanged as set out in the accounting any public financial announcements and advising the Board on policy notes to the accounts.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced Reviewing the need for an internal audit function, concluding and understandable.
that this is not presently required because of the simplicity External audit of the Groups centralised business model combined with Approving the appointment and nominating the reappointment existing assurance activity in the key control areas.
This will of the external Auditor and their terms of engagement and fees: be reviewed annually: Considering the scope of work to be undertaken by the external Agreeing the Audit Committee rolling agenda for 2014: Auditor and reviewing the results of that work: Agreeing the policy for approval of non-audit services Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external provided by the external Auditor details are on our website: Auditor and approving their provision of non-audit services: and www.
co. uk: Reviewing the effectiveness of the external Auditor.
Considering the risk assessment, mitigation actions and assurance activities produced by management: Internal controls Ensuring compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code: Receiving a report on the IT function and how its risks are managed with particular focus on IT security: and Reviewing whether the Company should have an internal audit function: and Reviewing and approving the external audit plan.
Overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud.
Risk management Monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management systems and processes: and Assessing and advising the Board on the internal financial, operational and compliance controls.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued In February 2014, the Committee had one further meeting which Non-audit services covered the following: Total non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP for the year ended 31 December 2013 were 1.1 million 2012: 0.1 million.
Reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013 and Clearly 2013 was an unusual year due to the involvement of recommending to the Board their adoption as fair, balanced Deloitte in the IPO process IPO fees: 0.9 million.
In fulfilling this task the Audit Committee reviewed the process undertaken to produce the Annual Report The details of our policy are set out on our website and Accounts, which included guidance given to contributors, www.
In brief, there are certain services internal verification processes and content approval procedures.
termed excluded services that are not permitted to be provided The Committee also reviewed supporting papers to ensure the by the external Auditor.
Excluded services refers to the situation Annual Report and Accounts are factually correct: where the Auditor could audit their own work or work to which they have contributed.
All other non-audit services provided by Receiving the external Auditors Report to the Audit Committee: the external Auditor are subject to prior approval by the Audit Reviewing the effectiveness and recommending the Committee.
The Audit Committee approves in advance an annual reappointment of the external Auditor: and budget for tax compliance services and will delegate authority.
The Committee also delegates authority to the Chief Financial Reviewing the effectiveness of the whistle blowing policy Officer for engagements, other than excluded services, that see pages 17 and 27. individually do not exceed 50,000 and cumulatively for the year will not exceed 100,000.
Any engagement where the External Auditor fee is contingent must always be approved in advance by the The external Auditor, Deloitte LLP, has audited the accounts of Audit Committee.
the Group since 2009 under the same partner, Richard Muschamp.
No tender has been conducted since their appointment.
As a Annual evaluation of the Audit Committees performance FTSE 250 group, we will comply with the new provisions being As the Audit Committee has only been in existence for a short introduced by Order of the Competition Commission requiring an period of time, an evaluation of performance has not been audit tender at least every 10 years and our approach to this will undertaken.
The first full evaluation is scheduled for 2014 and be considered during 2014.
There are no contractual obligations will be annually thereafter.
on the Company which restrict the choice of Auditor.
As noted, we reviewed the effectiveness of the external Auditor.
We did this by: Reviewing their proposed plan for the 2013 audit: Discussing the results of their audit including their views on material accounting issues and key judgements and estimates and their audit report: Ian Barlow Considering the robustness of the audit process: Chairman of the Audit Committee Reviewing the quality of people and service provided by 10 March 2014 Deloitte: and Confirming their independence and objectivity.
We concluded that we were satisfied with their performance and independence and recommended their reappointment.
30 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013
