CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The matters reserved for the Board are: Board governance Agreeing the Groups strategy and objectives: Changes to the structure and capital of the Group: Overview Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Reports This Report sets out the Companys governance structure and how and Interim Management Statements: it complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council Approval of the Groups dividend policy and declaration and highlights areas of focus during the year.
The Report also of dividends: includes items required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Board: The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls: The disclosures in this Report relate to our responsibilities for Approving significant expenditure and material transactions preparing the Annual Report including compliance with the Code and contracts: to the extent required, our report on the effectiveness of the Ensuring a satisfactory dialogue with the Groups Shareholders: Groups risk management and internal control systems, and the functioning of our committees.
Appointment and removal of Directors: Determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Compliance with the Code Directors and the Chairman: Since listing, the Company has complied with all the relevant provisions set out in the Code.
Review of the Companys overall Corporate Governance arrangements: The Board Delegation of authority to the Group Chief Executive: and The Board comprises three independent Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Chairman, one non-independent NonEach year, the Board will meet to set annual objectives for the Executive Director and two Executive Directors.
A list of the business in line with the current Group strategy.
The Board will Directors, with brief biographical details, is provided on pages 22 monitor the achievement of the Companys objectives through to 23.
The Board is responsible for the effective oversight of the monthly Board reports which include updates from the Group Company.
It also agrees the strategic direction and governance Chief Executive Group CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and structure that will help achieve the long-term success of the other functions.
The Board has a rolling agenda of items that Company and deliver Shareholder value.
The Board takes the regularly need to be considered by the Board and this agenda lead in areas such as strategy, financial policy and making sure will be continually updated to include any topical matters we maintain a sound system of internal control.
The Boards full that arise.
responsibilities are included in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board, as set out below and available on our website.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director SID is Annette Court, who Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is available to Shareholders if they have concerns that cannot Foxtons has established a clear division between the respective be addressed through normal channels.
The SID also acts as responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and an internal sounding board for the Chairman and serves as the Chief Executive Officer.
The Non-Executive Chairman is Garry intermediary for the other Directors with the Chairman when Watts who is responsible for leading the Boards discussions and necessary.
Neither the Chairman nor the SID are employed as decision-making.
The Chairman promotes a culture of openness Executives of the Group.
and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of NonExecutive Directors in particular and ensuring constructive Non-Executive Directors relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range The Chief Executive Officer is Michael Brown who, through of skills and experience to the Board which assists both in their delegation from the Board, is responsible for leading Foxtons roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in providing operating performance and day-to-day management of the constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
This separation of responsibilities between the Chairman Non-Executive Directors, except for Stefano Quadrio Curzio, and the Chief Executive Officer, coupled with the schedule of are regarded by the Company as independent Non-Executive reserved matters described below, ensures that no individual has Directors within the meaning defined in the Code and free from unfettered powers of decision-making.
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Stefano Quadrio Curzio is not considered independent due to his Board meetings position in BC Partners and its relationship with the funds which, 2013 was obviously an unusual year given that the Company was prior to IPO, controlled the Company, and now holds shares listed in September 2013 and for the remainder of the year the totalling approximately 22% of the total share capital.
Under the current Board held three meetings.
In future the Board plans to terms of the Relationship Agreement, BC European Capital VIII have six meetings a year with additional ad hoc meetings as the BCP fund which indirectly controls Adnams BBPM Holdings required.
The Board and its Committees have standing agenda shareholding has the right to nominate one person to be a items to cover their proposed business at their scheduled Director of Foxtons Group plc for so long as the fund is interested meetings which, in the Boards case, includes a review of the latest in at least 15% of the Companys ordinary shares.
financial position and current trading and an analysis of the work being undertaken by its Committees.
The Chairman seeks to Board Committees ensure that the very significant work of the Committees feeds The Board delegates authority to its Committees to carry out into, and is influenced by the full Board.
Most Board meetings also certain tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and benefit from a presentation by the head of a division and technical give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant and investor relations updates.
The Chairman will hold meetings matters.
The Board has established the following Committees: with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors Audit, Nominations and Remuneration.
A report from each present, and at least once a year the Senior Independent Director Committee is set out on pages 28 to 42.
Each Committee reports will chair a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors without the to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and Chairman present to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
the minutes of Committee meetings are reviewed by the Board.
The terms of reference are available at www.
co. uk Attendance from listing to 31 December 2013 for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below: 1 Board Committee: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Number of meetings held 3211 Garry Watts 3 1 1 Michael Brown 3 Gerard Nieslony 3 Stefano Quadrio Curzio 3 Ian Barlow 2 2 1 1 Annette Court 3 2 1 1 Andrew Adcock 2 1 1 1 1 Excludes meetings held in relation to the IPO.
Appointment and election of Directors Information and professional development The Board considers all Directors are effective, committed to their It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive roles and have sufficient time available to perform their duties.
Directors: Accordingly, all members of the Board will be offering themselves 1 Attain good knowledge of the Company and its business: and for election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 21 May 2014.
2 Allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities to Foxtons effectively.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on Remuneration Report.
The service agreements and letters of joining the Board, including meeting with senior management and appointment are available for inspection at the Companys advisers and visits to the Groups operational locations.
The Board registered office during normal business hours.
No other contract calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the Company range of topics, including updates on Corporate Governance and in which any Director was materially interested subsisted during regulatory matters.
Directors are also given the opportunity to or at the end of the financial year other than the relationship visit the Groups branches and discuss aspects of the business with agreement mentioned on page 26.
Under the relationship employees, and regularly meet the heads of the Groups main agreement BC European Capital VIII has the right to nominate departments.
As well as internal briefings, Directors will attend one person to the Board of Foxtons Group plc for so long as its appropriate external seminars and briefings.
shareholding is at least 15% of the Companys ordinary shares.
26 Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Internal control and risk management Company Secretary Gerard Nieslony, who is responsible to the The Board has responsibility for establishing and maintaining Board for ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and the Groups system of risk management and internal control to that Directors have access to independent and professional advice safeguard Shareholders investments and the Groups assets and at the Companys expense, where they judge this to be necessary for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
As part of preparing to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
for operating in a listed environment, a review of the existing controls in place was performed and additional controls were Directors conflicts of interest implemented to ensure compliance with the UK Corporate Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which Governance Code.
The Directors confirm that these processes they have or may have interests that conflict with those of the have been in place since the date of listing and up to the date Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Directors.
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
However, such This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk takes up a position with another company.
The Companys of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise such potential reasonable and not absolute assurance against material conflicts, and there is in place a procedure to deal with any misstatement or loss.
Key elements are: actual or potential conflict of interest.
The Board deals with each A system for planning, reporting and reviewing performance as appointment on its individual merit and takes into consideration described above: all the circumstances.
The Group has established processes for the identification, Board evaluation and effectiveness review and mitigation of risks that are reviewed regularly by As the Board has only been in existence for a short period of time the Executive team.
These have been reviewed by the Audit an evaluation of performance has not been undertaken.
The first Committee including the Groups compliance programmes full evaluation is scheduled for 2014 and will be annual thereafter.
which support these and reflect the Groups commitment to conduct its business responsibly and in accordance with all Remuneration relevant laws and regulations.
The Board has reviewed the Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration Report on Companys strategic risks arising from the processes described: pages 31 to 42 which includes a description of the work of the and Remuneration Committee.
The Group has in place comprehensive financial controls which are well established and documented.
On the basis of the above and following the guidance in Internal Control: Guidance to Accountability and audit Directors per the Turnbull Report, the Board, advised by the Audit Committee, has concluded that the systems of internal control are effective.
Financial reporting The Board, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, internal control, can confirm that necessary actions have been which includes a detailed annual budgeting process where taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
budgets are prepared for approval by the Board.
The Group uses a number of KPIs to measure both operational and financial Whistle blowing activity within the business.
Depending on the measure, these are Through initial induction and ongoing training the Group reported and reviewed on a weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, encourages staff to report any concerns which they feel need management receives a weekly and monthly pack of indicators to be brought to the attention of management concerning any which are the basis of regular operational meetings, where possible impropriety, financial or otherwise.
A more formal whistle corrective action is taken if necessary.
At a Group level a wellblowing system is being implemented.
developed comprehensive management accounts pack, including income statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements as well Relations with Shareholders as key ratios, is reviewed monthly by management.
A re-forecast Responsibility for Shareholder relations rests with the Chairman, of the current year numbers is carried out quarterly.
Management Chief Executive and Head of Investor Relations.
They ensure that monitors the publication of new reporting standards.
there is effective communication with Shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy, and are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of major Shareholders.
Foxtons Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
