54 Grainger plc Governance Robin Broadhurst, CVO, CBE, FRICS Andrew Cunningham, FCA, FRICS The Grainger Non-executive chairman Aged 67 Chief executive Aged 57 Appointment Appointment board Appointed to the board in February 2004 and Appointed to the board as finance director became chairman in February 2007. in 1996 and became deputy chief executive in 2002 and chief executive in 2009.
Experience Experience Andrew is a chartered accountant and before Robin was previously European chairman joining Grainger was a partner in a predecessor at Jones Lang LaSalle and served as trustee firm of .
He is a andnon-executive director at Grosvenor member of the British Property Federation for 11years.
He is a property consultant policy committee and in 2012 was appointed to Sir Robert McAlpine Limited and is a a Fellow of the Royal Institute of Chartered non-executive director of Chelsfield Partners.
He is a member of the advisory The board is boards of the Cambridge University Land Committee membership Economy Department and the Durham responsibleto Chairman of nominations committee University Business School.
Member of remuneration committee thecompanys Committee membership None shareholders for thelong-term successofthe group, itsstrategy, values and itsgovernance.
John Barnsley Baroness Margaret Ford Non-executive director Aged 65 Non-executive director Aged 55 Appointment Appointment Appointed to the board in 2003 and became Appointed to the board in 2008. senior independent director in February 2011.
Experience Experience Margaret is chairman of Barchester Healthcare John is a non-executive director of Northern and STV Group Plc and is also a non-executive Investors Company plc, American Appraisal director of Segro plc and Taylor Wimpey plc.
Associates LLP and The Hippodrome Casino She was chairman of the Olympic Park Legacy Ltd. Until December 2001 he was a senior Company from 2009 to 2012, was a managing partner at .
director in the Royal Bank of Canadas Global Infrastructure Group from 2007 to 2009, and Committee membership between 2002 and 2007 was chairman of Senior independent director English Partnerships.
Member of audit committee Member of risk committee Committee membership Member of nominations committee Chairman of remuneration committee Member of audit committee Member of nominations committee
