72 Grainger plc Governance Remuneration committee report continued Remuneration policy The tables below summarise the main elements of the remuneration packages for the executive directors.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive level of nonvariable remuneration aligned to market practice for similar sized organisations: toreflect the seniority of thepostand expected contribution to the delivery ofthecompanys strategy.
Operation Basic salaries are reviewed by the remuneration committee annually with uplifts effective from 1 January being by referenceto cost of living, responsibilities and market rates, as for allemployees.
Opportunity The basic salaries for the executive directors will be increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 January2014 in line with thestandard increase that willbeapplied to all staff.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention ofhighquality executives.
Operation Car allowance Private medical insurance Life assurance Ill health income protection Travel insurance Health check up Andrew Cunningham annual Others biannual Opportunity N A Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Pension Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of highquality executives.
Operation The group will pay a pension allowance or contribute into a personal pension arrangement for all of the executive directors.
If appropriate a salary sacrifice arrangement can apply.
Opportunity The pension contribution orallowance is based on 15%of basic salary.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73 Bonus Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise performance over a 12month period based on a balanced scorecard performance agreement, with two financial performance measures plus an assessment of personal performance agreed with the remuneration committee.
Operation Performance measures are based on: 37.5% operating profit before valuation movements and nonrecurring items OPBVM 37.5% return on shareholders equity ROSE 25% assessment of personalperformance Opportunity Maximum bonus potential iscapped at: 150% of salary for the chiefexecutive 125% of salary for the other executive directors Performance metrics OPBVM 37.5% Actual OPBVM is compared to thebudgeted figure that is approved by the board.
Budget less 10% 0% vests Budget achieved 60% vests Budget plus 20% 100% Calculated on a pro rata basis.
ROSE 37.5% The calculation of ROSE is: Closing NNNAV dividends paid Opening NNNAV Less than or equal to 5% 0% vests Greater than 15% 100% vests Calculated on a pro rata basis.
Personal performance 25% Personal performance is assessed against individual personalobjectives that are set at the beginning ofthe financial year.
The chairman assesses the performance of the chief executive, and the chief executive assesses theperformance of the other executive directors.
Changes in year None 74 Grainger plc Governance Remuneration committee report continued Bonus Legacy bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the longer term.
Operation Legacy Bonus Scheme Up to the financial year ended 30 September 2010 Andrew Cunningham had participated in an arrangement introduced in 2003 whereby each year a notional provisional bonus amount was calculated by reference to the enhancement of the triple net asset value ofGrainger, relative to a theoretical market comparator.
The market comparator movement was calculated with regard to the Nationwide and Halifax house price indices and also interest rates usingfiveyear swap rates.
The calculated amount was aggregated with the unpaid notional amounts from previous years and each year the remuneration committee considered the appropriate proportion, if any, of this aggregate notional sum to be approved for payment.
The notional balance, after any approved payment, remained tobe taken into account over future years.
The maximum amount that could be transferred into the pool in any one year was 150% of salary and this could only be achieved under exceptional performance conditions.
As at 30 September 2010 the balance in the notional bonus pool stood at 545,621.
Following areview of bonus arrangements in 2011 the remuneration committee agreed to close this bonus scheme as it did not feel that it was sufficiently transparent and the deferred nature of the payments was not in line with good practice.
However a bonus poolremained in respect of Andrew Cunningham.
This reflected performance between 2003 and 2010, had been fully earned and had been .
Opportunity The legacy bonus is being paid out in five equal tranches, beginning in 2011.
The third instalment of 109,124 was paid in March 2013.
The balance in the bonus pool at 30 September 2013 was 218,249.
Changes in year N A Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Long-term incentive scheme LTIS Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise delivery of sustained performance overthe longer term.
To encourage greater shareholder alignment throughpersonal investment inthe companys shares.
Operation The awards are based upon the absolute levels of increase in both NNNAV and TSR.
Fundamentally it was considered that absolute measures of performance were suitable because Grainger is unusual in nature and has no natural comparator group.
Grainger is the only listed company of its sizeto invest primarily in residential property assets.
All other comparably sized property companies are principally commercial and or development focused.
Opportunity The awards are capped at 150% of basic salary for the chief executive and at 100% of basic salary for the other three directors.
There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, where participants are able to pledge shares of equivalent value to 30% of their basic salary.
To the extent that performance criteria are met, these shares will be matched oneforone at the end of the threeyear performanceperiod.
Performance metrics Awards are split equally between NNNAV and TSR.
TSR Performance Conditions 50% Percentage of the TSR element of an award which will vest Growth in TSR over 3 years TSR The base threshold for vesting is 5% with the maximum at 15% Less than 5% Nil Between 5% and 15% Pro rata vesting More than 15% 100% NNNAV Performance Conditions 50% Percentage of the NNNAV element of an award which will vest Growth in NNNAV over a three-year period relative to the average of the Halifax and Nationwide indices by a factor of: NNNAV Base threshold for vesting where NNNAV growth exceeded the average Halifax and Nationwide indices by a factor of 1.5.
The maximum level occurs at a factor of 3.
Less than 1.5 Nil Between 1.5 and 3 Pro rata vesting Greater than 3 100% There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, to encourage executives to develop and maintain a shareholding in the company.
Participants are able to pledge or buy shares of equivalent value to 30% of their relevant salary and to the extent that the performance criteria outlined above aremet, these shares will be matched oneforone at the end of the three year period.
These performance criteria are believed to be stretching, but realistic, and to reward executives ifGraingers return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
Changes in year None 76 Grainger plc Governance Remuneration committee report continued The Grainger plc Company Share Option Plan CSOP Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of highquality executives.
Operation The CSOP is approved by HMRC under schedule 4 of ITEPA.
The remuneration committee has discretion to grant options under the CSOP, which awards willbe subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the LTIS above.
The exercise price per ordinary share under an option is determined by the remuneration committee at the time of grant but may not be less than the greater of i the market value of anordinary share as at the date of grant and ii in the case of an option to subscribe for ordinary shares, the nominal value of an ordinary share.
Opportunity Each directors participation is limited so that the aggregate market value of ordinary shares subject to all options calculated as at the date of grant of each option held by that individual and granted under the CSOP or any other HMRC approved company share option plan operated by the company or any associated company, shall not exceed 30,000 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
Performance metrics These are the same as those outlined for the LTISabove.
Changes in year None Savings related share schemes Purpose and To encourage employees to makea longterm investment inthe companys shares.
link to strategy Operation All employees, including theexecutive directors, are eligible to participate in the companys save as you earn SAYE scheme and share incentive plan SIP, both of which are approved by HMRC and subject to the limits prescribed.
Opportunity SAYE: Participants may invest up to 250 per month for three or five year periods in order to purchase shares at the end of the contractual period at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of the saving period.
SIP: Participants can invest upto 125 per month in shares in the company, and the company will then subject to certain limits, double that investment.
The company may also allocate free shares annually on a percentage of basic pay, subject to a maximum of 3,000.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Approach to recruitment remuneration relocation, travel and subsistence payments.
When setting the remuneration package Any such payments will be at the discretion for a new executive director, the committee of the committee.
will apply the same principles and In the case of an employee who is implement the policy as set out in the promoted to the position of director, it is above tables.
the companys policy to honour preexisting Base salary will be set at a level award commitments in accordance with appropriate to the role and the experience their terms.
of the director being appointed.
This may Nonexecutive director appointments include agreement on future increases will be through letters of appointment.
up to a market rate, in line with increased Nonexecutive directors base fees, experience and or responsibilities, including those of the chairman, will subject to good performance, where be set at a competitive market level, itisconsidered appropriate.
reflecting experience, responsibility and In relation to external appointments, time commitment.
Fees will be reviewed the committee may structure an biannually.
Additional fees are payable appointment package that it considers for the chairmanship of audit, risk and appropriate to recognise awards or remuneration committees and for the benefits that will or may be forfeited on additional responsibilities of the senior resignation from a previous position, taking independent director.
into account timing and valuation and It was agreed at the biennial such other specific matters as it considers review undertaken in 2012 that the relevant.
This may take the form of cash fees would be reviewed again in 2013. and or share awards.
The policy is that Following this review undertaken by the the maximum payment under any such executive committee during the year it arrangements which may be in addition was agreed that the basic fees payable to the normal variable remuneration to the nonexecutive directors would be should be no more than the committee increased by 2,000 p. a. with effect from considers is required to provide reasonable 1 October 2013. compensation to the incoming director.
Nonexecutive directors do not receive If the director will be required to any performancerelated remuneration, or relocate in order to take up the position, it any benefits.
is the companys policy to allow reasonable Directors service agreements and letters ofappointment Contract Executive directors commencement date Notice period Andrew Cunningham October 2009 12 months Peter Couch June 2010 12 months Nick Jopling September 2010 6 months Mark Greenwood September 2010 6 months Non-executive directors Date of initial appointment Robin Broadhurst February 2004 John Barnsley February 2003 Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 Belinda Richards April 2011 Tony Wray October 2011 Simon Davies November 2012 78 Grainger plc Governance Provision on payment for loss of office Remuneration committee report If an executive directors employment is continued to be terminated, the committees policy in respect of the contract of employment, Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to agree Andrew Cunningham 000 a termination payment based on the value of base salary and contractual Minimum 82% 18% 615 pension amounts and benefits that would have accrued to the director during the In line with 40% 20% 8% 32% 1,277 contractual notice period.
The policy is that, expectations as is considered appropriate at the time, Maximum 25% 30% 5% 40% 2,064 the departing director may work, or be 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 placed on garden leave, for all or part of his notice period, or receive a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the service agreement.
The committee will consider Peter Couch 000 mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving director when Minimum 100% 344 appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances.
In line with 53% 20% 27% 649 expectations In addition, where the director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Maximum 34% 32% 34% 1,020 company in respect of his her statutory 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial Mark Greenwood 000 or otherwise with the director that the committee considers to be reasonable Minimum 100% 321 in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the company and to enter into In line with 52% 21% 27% 620 expectations a Settlement Agreement with the director to effect both the terms agreed under 33% 33% 34% Maximum 984 the Service Agreement and any additional 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 statutory or other claims, including bonus payments and to record any agreement inrelation to bonus and or share awards, inline with the policies described above.
Nick Jopling 000 The company has an enhanced redundancy policy allowing redundancy Minimum 100% 396 amounts to be calculated by reference to In line with actual basic weekly salary and the policy 52% 21% 27% 770 expectations may beextended to executive directors where relevant.
32% 33% 35% Maximum 1,225 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Key: Salary, pension and benets Bonus Legacy bonus LTIS performance Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 The committee will consider whether If employment ends for any other reason, Other directorships a departing director should receive an the plan rules permit the committee to The board has an approved policy annual bonus in respect of the financial exercise its discretion.
In doing so, the on other directorships.
This permits year in which the termination occurs or in policy is that it will take account of all a fulltime executive director to hold respect of any period of the financial year relevant circumstances, in particular, one nonexecutive directorship, and to following termination for which the director having regard to the performance of the retain fees from any such appointment, has been deprived of the opportunity to company, the directors performance and provided that the board considers that this earn annual bonus.
If the employment behaviour towards the company during the will not adversely affect their executive ends by reason of redundancy, retirement performance cycle of the relevant awards.
None of the executive with the agreement of the company, ill Options under the companys HMRC directors held any other directorships outside of the group during the year.
health or disability or death, the director approved share option scheme CSOP may be considered for a bonus payment.
The policy is that If the termination is for any other reason, the committee should retain the ability Shareholding guidelines for executivedirectors any bonus payment would only be at to exercise discretion in accordance with The committee believes that it is important for a significant investment to be made the discretion of the committee.
It is the the rules but that performance conditions committees policy to ensure that any such would be assessed in the advance of early by each executive director in the shares of the company and has established share bonus payment reflects the departing exercise.
Options may also be exercised directors performance and behaviour in connection with a change of control ownership guidelines for the Grainger executive directors.
or other corporate events and again the Any bonus payment will normally be policy is that performance conditions would These guidelines state that executive directors are expected and encouraged to delayed until the performance conditions be assessed as at the date of the early have been determined for the relevant exercise event.
build over a fiveyear period a shareholding, equivalent in value to at least one period and may be time pro rated, It is the companys policy to honour where appropriate.
preexisting award commitments in years salary.
Current levels of share ownership by The committee will consider whether accordance with their terms.
share awards, including matching share Where the executive director the executive directors are as follows.
The values were calculated as at awards, held by the director under the participates in one or more of the companys longterm incentive plan should companys allemployee share schemes, 31 October 2013 when the share price was 194.5p.
These values do not include lapse or vest.
Any determination by the his awards may vest or be exercisable on or committee will be in accordance with the following termination, where permissible, in the value of the shares that will vest on 26 November 2013. rules of the relevant plan, which have been accordance with the rules of the plan.
In summary, the Nonexecutive directors appointments plan rules provide that awards can vest if may be terminated without compensation.
employment ends by reason of redundancy, retirement, ill health or disability, death or Current Value at Date by which change of ownership.
Vesting of awards holding 31 October 2013 % of current guideline target thousands 000 salary to be achieved will normally be in accordance with the normal performance cycle of the relevant Andrew Cunningham 1,164 2,264 539% N A awards, with vesting subject to satisfaction Peter Couch 247 480 181% N A of the relevant performance conditions.
Mark Greenwood 109 212 82% 2015 Any awards which vest will normally be Nick Jopling 171 333 102% N A time pro rated.
The committee will have discretion to allow a higher level of vesting if appropriate.
