Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Attendance table 2013 Nominations Nominations Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend committee committee Robin Broadhurst February 2005 2 2 Committee chairman r report eport John Barnsley February 2011 2 2 Senior independent director Baroness Margaret Ford February 2012 1 2 Independent nonexecutive director Key responsibilities Reviewed the membership of the various The nominations The key responsibilities of the committee board committees.
Following this review are to: the following changes were made: committee comprises Review the size, balance and constitution Belinda Richards took over the role of thechairman and of the board including the diversity chairman of the audit committee from and balance of skills, knowledge John Barnsley, who remained onthe twoindependent and experience of the nonexecutive committee.
Tony Wray replaced Belinda Richards Consider succession planning for directors as chairman of the board risk and and other senior executives.
Identify and nominate for the approval Simon Davies, following his of the board candidates to fill board appointment to the board in November vacancies.
2012 joined both the remuneration and Review annually the time commitment board risk and compliance committees.
Make recommendations for the board, Senior independent director Robin Broadhurst in consultation with the respective Having considered carefully the roles of Committee chairman committee chairman regarding all the directors it was determined that, membership of the audit, remuneration having regard to the length of time that and risk and compliance committees.
John Barnsley had been on the board, it would be sensible to change the senior Main activities of the committee during independent director.
It was subsequently theyear and subsequent to the year end agreed, after consultation with some of The committee met twice during the year the companys major shareholders that to 30 September 2013.
Baroness Margaret Ford should replace John Barnsley as senior independent The key matters considered at these director with effect from the conclusion meetings were: ofthe Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Board composition Succession planning Reviewed the composition of the Kept under review the succession board including the range of skills, level plans for both the executive and of experience and balance between nonexecutive directors and the level executive and nonexecutive directors.
