58 Grainger plc Governance The directors directors, holds monthly meetings with Corporate governance As at the date of this report the directors of each of the divisional boards to review continued the company are: alloperational issues.
Chairman Non-executive directors Robin Broadhurst The nonexecutive directors are responsible for bringing independent and objective Executive directors judgement and scrutiny to all matters Andrew Cunningham before the board and its committees, Peter Couch using their substantial and wide ranging Mark Greenwood experience.
The key responsibilities of Nick Jopling nonexecutive directors are set out in their letters of appointment and include Non-executive directors requirements to: John Barnsley senior independent Challenge and contribute to the director development of the companys strategy: Baroness Margaret Ford Scrutinise the performance of Belinda Richards management in meeting agreed goals Tony Wray and objectives and monitor the reporting Simon Davies of performance: and to Satisfy themselves that financial Simon Davies was appointed to information is accurate and that financial theboardon20November 2012. controls and systems of risk management Henry Pitman retired from theboard are robust and defensible.
following the conclusion of the companysAGM on 6February 2013.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a nonexecutive director Chairman and chief executive isavailable on the groups website The posts of chairman and chief executive www.
co. uk or fromthe are separate and their roles and company secretary on request.
responsibilities are clearly established, set The nonexecutive directors meet out in writing and agreed by the board.
periodically without the executive directors A copy of the written statement of roles present.
There have been two such isavailable on the groups website meetings since 1 October 2012 and an www.
co. uk or from the additional meeting of the nonexecutive company secretary on request.
directors without the chairman or the The chairman is responsible for running executive directors presentwhere the theboard and ensuring its effectiveness.
The chief executive reports to the chairman, as does the company secretary on matters Senior independent director of corporate governance.
The chairman The senior independent director is available isthe guardian of the boards decision to shareholders if they request a meeting making and is responsible for ensuring a or have concerns, which contact through constructive relationship between executive the normal channels has failed to resolve and nonexecutive directors and for or where such contact is inappropriate.
fostering a culture of challenge and debate No such requests were received from in the boardroom.
The senior The chief executive is responsible for independent director leads the annual running the business and implementing performance review of the chairman.
He chairs a weekly meeting with the other executive directors, all of whom report directly to him, and, together with the executive Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Time commitment Attendance table Effectiveness The board is satisfied that the chairman Meetings and each of the nonexecutive directors Meetings eligible Meetings Executive directors attended to attend committed sufficient time during the There were six meetings of the board in Andrew Cunningham 6 6 year to enable them to fulfil their duties the year.
The board has a list of matters as directors of the company.
None of the Peter Couch 6 6 reserved to it and a rolling annual plan of nonexecutive directors has any conflict of Nick Jopling 6 6 items for discussion, agreed between the interest which has not been disclosed to the Mark Greenwood 6 6 chairman and the chief executive.
The list board in accordance with the companys of reserved matters and annual plan are articles of association.
reviewed regularly to ensure all matters Meetings reserved to the board, as well as other key Meetings eligible Induction and professional development Non-executive directors attended to attend issues, are discussed at the appropriate The chairman is responsible for ensuring Robin Broadhurst 5 6 time.
At each board meeting the chief that induction and training are provided to executive provided a review of the business, John Barnsley 6 6 each director and the company secretary how it was performing and strategic issues Henry Pitman 2 2 organises the induction process and regular arising.
In the year the range of subjects Baroness Margaret Ford 6 6 updating and training of board members.
discussed included: Belinda Richards 5 6 Simon Davies was appointed in the The strategy of the group in response Tony Wray 6 6 year and received a comprehensive, tailored tochanging economic conditions: Simon Davies 6 6 induction to the company.
This consisted Key business areas, including Germany, ofthe provision of a corporate handbook Retirement solutions, UK Residential, covering such items as matters reserved Board committees funds and the new registered provider for the board, division of responsibility business: The board has established four principal between thechairman and chief executive board committees to which it has delegated The groups debt and capital structure: and the terms of reference of thevarious The groups financial results: certain of its responsibilities.
They are the board committees as well as individual audit committee, remuneration committee, Dividend policy: sessions with members of the senior Regulatory and governance issues: and nominations committee and the management team in both the Newcastle board risk and compliance committee.
The development of the groups people.
He was also taken The roles, membership and activities on a property tour to enable him to of these committees are described Five of the meetings were preceded, the see some of the companys properties evening before, by aninformal meeting in more detail later in the Corporate ranging from the UK residential governance statement.
allowing more time to debate issues in regulated portfolio through to some depth.
One of these was held together with ofthedevelopment activities.
Information flow members of the senior management team.
Training and updating in relation to Twoof the board meetings were held at The chairman, together with the company the business of the group and the legal secretary, ensures that the directors receive the companys head office in Newcastle and regulatory responsibilities of directors upon Tyne, two in the companys London clear information on all relevant matters in a was provided throughout the year by timely manner.
Board papers are circulated office, one at the companys office a variety of means to board members in Putney and one at the companys sufficiently in advance of meetings for including presentations by executives, them to be thoroughly digested to ensure office in Frankfurt.
During the course of visits to business operations and circulation these meetings the directors have heard clarity of informed debate.
The board of briefing materials.
Individual directors papers contain the chief executives presentations from divisional directors on are also expected to take responsibility the following matters: written report, high level papers on each for identifying their training needs and business area, key metrics and specific The business improvement programme.
to ensure they are adequately informed Graingers properties in and around papers relating to agenda items.
The board about the group and their responsibilities papers are accompanied by a management London.
The strategy and operational activities information pack containing detailed financial and other supporting information.
The board receives a biweekly update throughout the year and occasional ad hoc Property and asset management.
papers on matters of particular relevance or importance.
The board also received presentations from various business units.
