Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Diversity Leadership Grainger believes that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving its success, and The board supports the Davies Reports aspiration to The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the longterm success of the promote greater female representation on group, its strategy, values and its governance.
As at 30 September 2013, the Grainger The role of the board board had two female nonexecutive directors, Baroness Margaret Ford and Governance framework Belinda Richards, representing 20% of 30 September 2013 board membership.
Margaret and Belinda bring invaluable skills to the composition of the board, and as and when board Chairman appointments arise, we will look to follow the procedures recommended by the Board: non-executive chairman, four executive directors and five non-executive directors Davies Report and by the Code to maintain a balanced board.
Board risk and Nominations Audit Chief Remuneration committee committee executive committee compliance committee Board evaluation As reported last year, an independent evaluation of the Grainger board was Executive Executive risk carried out in 2011.
Thisyear I have directors committee personally carried out an evaluation of the board, considering the recommendations from 2011 and 2012.
Further details are Divisional Corporate operating business available on page 60. boards functions Shareholder engagement The board provides leadership of the group and, either directly or through the operation of The board regards it as important to committees of directors and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on matters maintain an active dialogue with our of strategy, performance, resources including key appointments and standards of behaviour.
Further details regarding this The board sets the groups strategic objectives and approves and monitors business plans engagement with our shareholders are set and budgets submitted by the executive directors and senior management.
The written out on page 61. statement of matters reserved to the board is reviewed and approved annuallyby the board and a copy is available on the groups website www.
co. uk or from the company secretary on request.
Length of service Balance of directors Robin Broadhurst 30 September 2013 30 September 2013 Nonexecutive chairman 1.
