62 Grainger plc Governance Attendance table Audit Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend committee Belinda Richards April 2011 4 4 Committee chairman report John Barnsley February 2003 4 4 Baroness Margaret Ford July 2008 3 4 Tony Wray November 2011 4 4 Both John Barnsley and Belinda Richards have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details relating to each of the committee members is shown on pages 54 and 55.
Committee meetings To make recommendations to the board The audit committee The committee met four times during the in relation to the appointment and year.
The meetings are attended by the removal of the external auditors and to currently comprises committee members and, by invitation, approve their remuneration and terms four independent the finance director, representatives from ofengagement: the external auditors and the internal audit To review and monitor the external nonexecutive directors.
Once a year, the committee auditors independence and objectivity meets separately with the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit Belinda Richards took over the role and with management without the process, taking into consideration, of chairman of the committee from other being present.
The chairman of the relevant UK professional and regulatory JohnBarnsley in February 2013. committee has regular quarterly meetings requirements: with the internal audit manager.
To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor Role and responsibilities to supply nonaudit services, taking Monitoring the integrity of the annual into account relevant ethical guidance and interim financial statements, the regarding the provision of nonaudit accompanying reports to shareholders services by the external audit firm, and andcorporate governance statements.
to report to the board, identifying any Reporting to the board on the matters in respect of which it considers Belinda Richards appropriateness of our accounting that action or improvement is needed Committee chairman policies and practices.
and making recommendations as the In conjunction with the board risk steps to be taken: and compliance committee reviewing To report to the board on how it has and monitoring the effectiveness discharged its responsibilities: and of the groups internal control and To oversee the whistleblowing provisions riskmanagement systems, including of the group and to ensure they are reviewing the process for identifying, operating effectively.
assessing and reporting all key risks.
Managing the internal audit function andapproving their terms of reference and their forward audit plan.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 External audit Activities of the committee Significant areas Reviewed and discussed with the The significant areas considered by the The groups external auditors are  LLP.
The audit external auditors the key accounting committee and discussed with the external considerations and judgements reflected auditors during the year were: committee is responsible for reviewing the independence and objectivity of the in the groups results for the six month Property valuations: We received reports period ending 31 March 2013. from management on the assumptions external auditors, and ensuring this is safeguarded notwithstanding any provision Reviewed and agreed the external to be used in valuing the groups property auditors audit strategy memorandum assets.
In considering the proposals of any other services to the group.
The board recognises the importance advance of their audit for the year ending we reviewed the valuations and, for 30 September 2013. reversionary assets, the suggested of safeguarding auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that Discussed the report received from the discount rates provided by the external external auditors regarding their audit in valuers, and confirmed that they were auditor independence is not compromised: respect of the year ending 30 September sufficiently independent from the group.
The audit committee carries out each 2013, which report included comments Managements recommendations in year a full evaluation of the external on their findings on internal control and relation to the directors valuations were auditor as to its complete independence a statement on their independence and scrutinised against external evidence from the group and relevant officers of objectivity.
and the verification work completed by the group in all material respects and that Reviewed the groups whistleblowing the external valuers.
We were content it is adequately resourced and technically policy and satisfied themselves that this after due challenge and debate with the capable to deliver an objective audit met FCA rules and good standards of assumptions and judgements applied.
Based on this review corporate governance.
Valuation of derivatives: Throughout the the audit committee recommends to Received reports from internal audit period we reviewed accounting papers the board each year the continuation, covering various aspects of the groups in relation to the management of the or removal and replacement, of the operations, controls and processes.
groups derivatives, including the impact externalauditor: Reviewed a summary of the groups ofswap cancellations and any hedge The external auditors provide audit insurance arrangements and discussed ineffectiveness.
related services such as regulatory and the insurance philosophy adopted by Presumed risk of fraud in revenue statutory reporting as well as formalities thegroup.
recognition and management override relating to shareholders andother Reviewed and approved the register of of controls: The committee considered circulars: nonaudit assignments undertaken by the presumed risks of fraud as defined by The external auditors may undertake due the external auditors in the year ending auditing standards and was content that diligence reviews and provide assistance 30 September 2013. there were no issues arising.
on tax and pension matters given its Reviewed the audit committees terms Accounting for substantial transactions: knowledge of the groups businesses.
We considered the accounting treatment Such provision will however be assessed During the year the committee agreed of substantial transactions including on a casebycase basis so that the best to outsource the management of the any judgemental areas.
This included placed adviser is retained.
The audit internal audit function.
After considering the formation of coinvestment vehicles committee monitors the application of several providers, Deloitte was engaged.
with Heitman, APG and Dorrington, the policy in this regard and keeps the policy purchase of debt at a discount from the under review: Bank of America and scrutiny of sales by The audit committee reviews on a the group into coinvestment vehicles.
regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all Financial statements: We considered the consultancy fees, with a view to assessing presentation of the financial statements, reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and in particular, the analysis between and any independence issues that may recurring and nonrecurring items.
have arisen or may potentially arise in We were satisfied with managements thefuture: presentation.
The external auditors report to the directors and the audit committee confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards.
In addition to the steps taken by the board to safeguard auditor objectivity, 64 Grainger plc Governance  LLP operates a tender process.
This included assessing the Audit committee report fiveyear rotation policy for audit partners.
Corporate Governance Code requirements continued Different teams are utilised on all other to tender the external audit contracts at assignments undertaken by the auditors.
least every 10 years, the change in the chair Before any such assignments can of the committee during the year and the commence teams must obtain approval committees assessment of the external of the audit committee.
This approval auditors effectiveness and independence.
confirms that sufficient and appropriate The review concluded that a tender was safeguards are put in place to ensure that not in the groups interests at this time.
The committee note that current FRC transitional guidance indicates that the company should tender the audit, at The audit committee give careful consideration before appointing the the latest, at the time of the next audit partner rotation currently scheduled for auditors to provide other services.
The group regularly use other providers to 2017.
We may, however, put the audit out to tender at any time before this ensure that independence and full value for money are achieved.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of external auditors are generally limited to work that is closely related to the annual audit or where the and no auditor liability agreement has been entered into.
work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the business is necessary.
During the year, 85,000 was paid by the group to  LLP  LLP have remained in place as auditors for a for taxation services.
A further 93,000 was paid for other services, the main considerable number of years and the audit contract has not been put out to tender element of which was 81,000 relating to the nonstatutory audit of the completion in the last 10 years.
Their performance is reviewed annually by the committee.
balance sheet relating to the formation of the Heitman coinvestment vehicle.
As part of its review the committee notes that the Group Audit Partner was rotated in 2012 and the current audit partners fiveyear term will end in 2017.
The committee considered the appropriateness of putting in place a
