60 Grainger plc Governance The board is confident that all its members The board and its committees will monitor Corporate governance have the knowledge, ability and experience progress and continue their critical review continued to perform the functions required of a of its effectiveness during the year ahead.
In accordance with the prevailing provisions of the Code, it is the current intention of Access to independent advice the board that an external facilitation of the All directors have access to the advice and board evaluation will be carried out in 2014, services of the company secretary who the last external evaluation having been ensures that board processes are followed undertaken in 2011. and good corporate governance standards are maintained.
Any director who considers Re-election of directors it necessary or appropriate may take Notwithstanding that the companys independent, professional advice at the articles of association require the directors companys expense.
None of the directors to offer themselves for reelection at least sought such advice in the year.
once every three years, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code all of Performance evaluation the directors will be offering themselves for The 2013 annual evaluation of the reelection at the AGM in February 2014. board and its committees was led by the In light of the performance evaluations chairman through individual meetings summarised above and the provisions of with each of the directors, in advance the companys articles of association, the of which, each director had completed board recommends that allofthe directors a series of questionnaires relating to be reelected.
the composition and running of the board andits committees.
The company Accountability secretary collated the evaluation results and these were considered by the Internal control chairman and the company secretary and The board is responsible for reviewing and reported back to the board.
These were approving the groups system of internal positive and indicated that the board, its control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
committees and individual directors were The group has a cyclical process for alloperating effectively.
identifying, assessing and managing its The review of the chairmans significant risks, which has been in place performance, which was led by the senior for the full year under review.
The process independent director, concluded that the is designed to enable the board to be chairmans leadership and performance confident that such risks are mitigated, were considered to have been of a or controlled as far as possible.
be noted however, that no system can No major areas were highlighted within eliminate the risk of failure to achieve this review process but the board intend to business objectives entirely and can only continue to develop themes arising from provide reasonable and not absolute previous reviews, specifically on: assurance against material misstatement or strategic messaging: loss.
The risk and compliance committee board information: and is delegated the task of reviewing all succession.
identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full board review.
The audit committee reports to the board at every board meeting.
Risks and controls are reviewed to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and full year financial statements, Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61 which includes the results of our associate failings or weaknesses were identified from attend the AGM, which continues as a and joint ventures, which are subject to the this reviewinthe year.
route for communication with smaller and same internal controls as within the group.
In addition, the group has an internal audit Going concern The notice of meeting and annual function which performs relevant reviews The group closely monitors its future report and accounts are sent out at as part of a programme approved by the anticipated cash flows and compliance least 20 working days before the audit committee.
The committee considers with its banking covenants.
Separate votes are held for any issues or risks arising from internal these forecasts and the sensitivities which each proposed resolution, including the audit in order that appropriate actions have been run on different scenarios the approval of the remuneration committee can be undertaken for their satisfactory directors have a reasonable expectation report, and a proxy count is given in resolution.
The internal audit manager that the group and company have each case after the voting on a show of has a direct reporting line to the chairman adequate resources to continue in existence hands.
Grainger includes, as standard, ofthe audit committee.
A detailed annual for the foreseeable future.
For thisreason a vote withheld category, in line with budget is produced each year, together they continue to adopt the going concern best practice.
with longerterm projections in accordance basis in preparing the accounts.
Shareholders are also able to lodge with the agreed strategy, which are their votes through the CREST system.
presented to the board for consideration Relations with shareholders and approval.
A fundamental part of the The company has held over 100 meetings Substantial shareholdings control process is the diligent monitoring with shareholders, analysts and potential As at 31 October 2013, the company is of actual performance against this budget investors in the year in addition to the usual aware of the following interests amounting by the board.
Where applicable, revisions halfyearly results announcements and to 3% or more in the companys shares: are made to expected outturn against briefings.
Andrew Cunningham and Mark Holding Holding which further progress can be monitored.
Greenwood, chief executive and finance million % A detailed monthly management director respectively, have had the vast Schroder Investment information pack is prepared which covers majority of these meetings and manage the Management Ltd 78.1 18.74 each major area of the business and which groups investor relations programme with BlackRock Investment includes detailed consolidated results and the head of corporate affairs.
Some ofthe Management Ltd 23.0 5.53 financial information for the business as a key issues raised were the progress of our Henderson Global whole.
The performance of each business debt reduction programme, the growing Investors 20.6 4.95 area is reviewed monthly by both divisional importance of the private rented sector Scottish Widows management and the executive directors and the role that Grainger can play in it and Investment Partnership 13.9 3.33 and is subsequently reported to the board.
Graingers fund management business and Norges Bank The board also discusses in detail the prospects for growth of that business.
the projected financial impact of major Feedback is always sought following such Investment Management Ltd 13.0 3.12 proposed acquisitions and disposals, meetings and this feedback is presented including their financing.
All such proposed tothe board.
Franklin Templeton substantial investments are considered The chairman and Baroness Ford, Fund Management Ltd 13.0 3.12 by all directors.
Where meetings are the chairman of the remuneration required between board meetings and committee, also met with the corporate a full complement of directors cannot governance officers of the companys be achieved, acommittee of directors major shareholders in advance of the considers the necessary formalities.
AGM where the keys issues discussed The board is also responsible for reviewing were the companys policy for and approving the groups treasury directors remuneration and succession.
strategy, including mitigation against The groups website includes a specific and changes in interest rates.
The groups comprehensive investor relations section, processes for internal control have been in containing all RNS announcements, share place throughout the year and accord with price information, annual documents the Turnbull guidelines 2005.
The board available for download and similar regularly reviews the groups processes materials.
All the directors intend to be in for internal control and conducts a formal attendance at the AGM in February 2014 annual review of these processes and the and to be available to answer questions.
risks relating to the business.
Nosignificant All shareholders have the opportunity to
