80 Grainger plc Governance Attendance table Board Member Meetings Meetings eligible Committee member since attended to attend risk and Tony Wray May 2012 5 5 Committee chairman compliance John Barnsley May 2012 3 5 Belinda Richards May 2012 5 5 committee Mark Greenwood May 2012 5 5 Simon Davies February 2013 3 3 report The committee usually meets four times A fifth meeting was held during the year The board risk and during the year.
The meetings are attended which looked specifically at risk mitigation compliance committee by the committee members and by planning over change processes within invitation the chief operating officer and the group.
currently comprise the groups risk and compliance manager.
The Retirement solutions business At each meeting the committee is regulated by the FCA.
The committee threeindependent review the quarterly risk and compliance oversees compliance with regulatory nonexecutive report prepared by the Risk and obligations and receives regular updates on Compliance Manager together with the proposed future regulatory developments.
directors and one quarterly complaints and Top Risk and The culture of risk awareness, and Projects reports.
effective risk management, is becoming executive director.
Other areas reviewed at the regular more embedded in the way that Grainger quarterly meetings included risks associated thinks and operates at all levels within Tony Wray took over the role of chairman with the retirement solutions business, the business.
This focus will be critical in of the committee from Belinda Richards block management and the core systems protecting our outstanding reputation inFebruary 2013. review project together with risk briefings inthe market as we move forward.
These briefings included reports on people risk and embedding risk management, tax risks, the IT security policy and a legal regulatory update.
The purpose of these detailed reviews is to highlight the principal risks Tony Wray and processes of each division at a more Committee chairman detailed level and to ensure that the risk mitigation plans are robust.
