Directors Report Directors Corporate Directors Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement Michael Harper In 2013, our Board performance evaluation was once again Chairman internally facilitated via internal questionnaires and individual reviews and we expect the next evaluation to be undertaken in the second half of 2014.
The Companys remuneration policy seeks to align the interests of executive directors and shareholders and is structured to enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain I am pleased to introduce the Directors Corporate Governance the talent required to deliver the business strategy.
The Board Statement for 2013. is aware of the sensitivity relating to executive director The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing remuneration and understands the requirements of the new long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of regulations that have come into effect.
We have included long-term, sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations total remuneration figures for executive directors this year stakeholders.
Governance is a very important contributor to and shareholders will be asked to vote on the Companys the success of the Group and it is important we take pride not remuneration policy at the forthcoming AGM.
only in what we do but also in the way we conduct our We keep all our policies and procedures under regular business and deliver our strategic objectives.
The Board is review, bearing in mind the ever evolving business and therefore committed to ensuring that appropriate standards governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing of governance are maintained throughout the Group.
on the range of experience offered by Board members.
This report sets out the way we comply with good The Corporate Governance Statement that follows gives corporate governance principles.
It describes how the Board more details about our governance policies and procedures, and its committees work, and also our approach to risk about the structure of our Board Committees and about the management and internal control.
areas our meetings focus on.
As part of our planned and continuing evolution of Board members appreciate their interactions with the Board, there have been a number of changes in 2013. shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome As announced in last years report, Mark Harper retired from your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement the Board following the Companys AGM in May 2013.
In and on the 2013 Annual Report more generally.
addition, Hansel Tookes retired from the Board on 30 As we announced in October 2013, I will retire from the September 2013 after serving as a non-executive director for Board at the AGM in May 2014 when Sir Nigel Rudd, subject six years.
I have paid tribute to Mark and Hansel elsewhere in to being elected by shareholders as a director, will become this report and wish them well for the future.
Sir Nigel is an experienced Chairman and I wish joined the Board as a non-executive director on 7 August 2013 him every success in leading the Board when I retire.
and Sir Nigel Rudd joined the Board as a non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on 1 December.
The Board considers that its own continuing Michael Harper effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic Chairman objectives.
My role as Chairman has been to provide leadership 4 March 2014 to ensure that it is possible to make high-quality decisions.
I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness.
I am supported by all the directors but particularly by Nick Land, as the Senior Independent Director, who meets independently with the other directors and is available if required to meet with shareholders.
As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
2013 Board and Board Committee Meeting Attendance Directors Corporate The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board Governance Statement of corporate governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show The Company applies the principles of corporate attendance by non-Committee members at meetings to which governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code they were invited.
published in September 2012 the Code, which sets out the Audit standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and and Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
The Board monitors the evolution of corporate Number of governance best practice, reviews and updates its procedures scheduled meetings 7 5 4 1 Go to pages 9395 as required and adopts, where relevant, recommendations of Independent Michael Harper 7 7 1 1 governance review bodies.
Auditors Report Sir Nigel Rudd 1 1 1 1 1 1 The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2013 Simon Pryce 7 7 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The Boards Role The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the Mark Harper 2 2 2 2 1 1 long-term success of the Company.
Its role includes providing Susan Kilsby 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 effective leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
Peter Ratcliffe 7 7 4 5 4 4 1 1 Itassesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that Wayne Edmunds 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
Hansel Tookes 5 5 4 4 3 3 Itisresponsible for reviewing managements performance and oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
Mark Harper retired from the Board and its Committees on 10 May 2013.
TheBoard is responsible for setting the Companys values and Wayne Edmunds was appointed to the Board and its Audit and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations to its Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 7 August 2013. shareholders are met.
Hansel Tookes resigned from the Board and its Committees on There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2013.
Details of attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings are shown in the table in section 3.
Board meetings Sir Nigel Rudd was appointed to the Board and its Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 1 December 2013. focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific In 2013 there were three additional Board meetings, three matters.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation additional Remuneration Committee meetings and four with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, additional Nomination Committee meetings.
other Board members and the Group Secretary.
Directors unable to attend a meeting discuss in advance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved with the relevant chairman their views on the business of that to it for decision including approval of matters such as: Go to pages 0809 meeting so that their position can be represented.
strategy and objectives Board of Directors Group policies and Executive 4.
The Board and Independence annual budgets Management At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, dividends For biographies of each director five independent non-executive directors and two executive acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a certain size directors who contribute a wide range of complementary skills expenditure over a certain limit and experience.
During 2013 the Company announced that financial results immediately following the 2014 annual general meeting, Michael appointment and removal of directors and company Harper would retire from the Board and that Sir Nigel Rudd secretary would be appointed as Chairman of the Board in his place.
The Board has concluded that Sir Nigel Rudd, Nick Land, This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Mark Harper, Peter Ratcliffe, Susan Kilsby and Wayne Edmunds Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided are independent in character and judgement.
The Company has by management in accordance with delegated authorities formal procedures in place to ensure that the Boards powers to approved by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
authorise conflicts are operated effectively and such procedures The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have been followed throughout 2013. has provided assurances to the Board that they remain fully The Board has decided that all Board members wishing to committed to their respective roles and can dedicate the continue serving on the Board will retire and stand for re-election necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
The Board believes that each of the directors should be re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
indb 60 12 03 2014 12:11 Directors Report During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting in 2013 Directors Corporate directors without the attendance of the executive directors on and four arranged at shorter notice.
This increased number of Governance Statement a number of occasions.
There was a formal meeting of the Senior meetings of the Committee was due to the search for and Independent Director and non-executive directors withoutthe appointment of two new non-executive directors during 2013.
Chairman present which included a review of the performance During the year, the Committee continued to discuss matters of the Chairman taking into account the views of the executive relating to succession planning and talent planning for leadership directors.
There were several other occasions during the year succession.
Diversity is considered as one aspect of those when discussions between various directors took place on an succession planning discussions, along with, for example, ways informal basis.
of developing and strengthening the pipeline of talent within Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Group and ways of increasing the interaction between Board the Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any members and senior members of executive management and othercompany.
Executive directors may retain the fees from talented future executives.
No executive directors held non-executive Within the topic of diversity there are a variety of different directorships during 2013, although Simon Pryce was appointed aspects, including professional and industry experience, Go to page 55 to the Council of the University of Reading for a three year term understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic Corporate Social on 1August 2013. background and gender.
The Board does not believe that Responsibility gender quotas or any other quotas effectively promote the For gender diversity data 5.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive development of appropriate and broad diversity.
The Board does Throughout 2013 there has continued to be a clear division of believe that an appreciation of the value that a diverse range of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief backgrounds brings is an important part of succession planning Executive.
Michael Harper, as the Chairman, is primarily at all levels in the Group.
The Board does continue to have an responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
aspiration to increase female representation on the Board and, Simon Pryce, as the Group Chief Executive, is responsible for when engaging external search consultants to identify future the development and after discussion and agreement with candidates for Board roles, such consultants would be requested the Board implementation of Board strategy and policy and to take full account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their the running of the Groups business.
The written statement of candidate list.
the division of responsibilities between the two positions was There is a written framework for the induction of last reviewed by the Board in February 2014. new directors which includes site visits, meetings with senior management and advisers and the provision of corporate documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is Michael Harper as Chairman is primarily responsible for: tailored to the background of the new director concerned.
leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: The induction of a new executive director would be mostly setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors focused on the obligations and requirements of being the receive information in an accurate, clear and timely director of a listed company.
An induction for a non-executive manner: director who already holds other listed company directorships promoting effective decision-making: as was the case for Wayne Edmunds and Sir Nigel Rudd who ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees joined the Board during the year would be more focused on and individual directors are evaluated on an annual introducing the director to the businesses within BBA Aviation.
basis: and New non-executive directors are also available to meet major ensuring that appropriate Board training and shareholders on request.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject Go to page 73 Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is responsible for: to the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory Directors the development and after discussion and agreement performance of duties following the Boards annual performance Remuneration with the Board implementation of Board strategy evaluation.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic Report andpolicy: but may be made by mutual agreement.
All continuing directors For Directors fees the running of the Groups business: of the Company will retire and stand for re-election at the ensuring that the business strategy and activities are 2014AGM.
effectively communicated and promoted within and The fees of the non-executive directors are determined outside the business: and bythe Board as a whole on the recommendation of the building positive relationships with the Companys Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his stakeholders.
or her own remuneration or fees.
Letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection by 6.
Board Appointments shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and at the Companys registered office.
progressive refreshing of the Board.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
Further details about that committee are set out in section 9b below.
Board Effectiveness Review Directors Corporate The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive In the late summer and autumn of 2013 the Chairman, in Governance Statement accurate, timely and clear information, with Board and Committee conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, led the papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings.
performance evaluation and appraisal process for the Board, TheBoard and its Committees are kept informed of corporate its members and its main Committees.
The Chairman discussed governance and relevant regulatory developments as they arise with each director individually their replies to a questionnaire and receive topical business briefings.
The Board also keeps itself they had previously completed concerning the Board, informed about the Companys activities through a structured its Committees and their operation.
programme of presentations from each of the businesses within The Chairman prepared a report summarising the the Group and from a number of Group functional leaders.
findingsof the evaluation and this report was discussed by In 2013, senior executives also gave presentations to the the Board as a whole.
Board on projects in development and there were presentations In addition, the Senior Independent Director, in from some of the Companys corporate advisers.
consultation with the other non-executive directors and taking In addition, in 2013, Peg Billson and Michael Scheeringa as into account the views of the executive directors, reviewed the Divisional Presidents were both invited to attend all scheduled performance of the Chairman and the performance evaluation Board meetings.
and appraisal process as a whole.
The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and accounting and technical matters by senior management and appraisal process was positive, with each individual director by the external auditor.
In 2013, briefings included considering contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board the progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition and and the Committees of which he or she is a member.
A number of proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting of areas were identified as appropriate for focus in 2014 and for for leases.
The Remuneration Committee receives updates on The Board has reviewed the objectives it set itself for 2013 remuneration trends and market practices as part of its regularly that included succession planning, senior leadership development scheduled business and in 2013 Towers Watson was invited to and enhancing the Boards exposure to regulatory issues.
The give regular updates covering the proposals and reporting Board considers it has made good progress against its objectives.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman 9.
Board Committees maintains regular contact during the year with the other The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination directors to discuss specific issues.
Opportunities exist Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee.
Written terms throughout the year for informal contact between Board of reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and members and with members of the senior management team.
are available on the Groups website www.
com Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, or on request from the Group Secretary.
enabling Board members to meet employees in individual operations.
In 2013 the Board held one of its scheduled seven a. Remuneration Committee Composition meetings in the USA.
The meeting in the USA allowed the The composition of the Remuneration Committee during Board to visit a Signature FBO in Washington DC as well as 2013 isset out in the table below.
All Committee members are a US Congressman closely involved with business and general independent non-executive directors.
Mark Harper stepped aviation and also the Chief Operating Officer of a major customer.
down as Chairman of the Committee following his retirement One meeting was held in the south of England and included a from the Board on 10 May 2013 and was replaced as Chairman visit to the H S operation in Portsmouth.
These visits enabled of the Committee by Susan Kilsby.
Hansel Tookes resigned from the Board to meet both formally and informally with a number the Committee on 30 September 2013.
Wayne Edmunds and of employees based in the area and talk to those working there.
Sir Nigel Rudd were appointed to the Committee on 7 August A register of the training that individual directors have 2013 and 1 December 2013 respectively.
undertaken is maintained by the Company and this register is During Year 01 01 13 Resigned Appointed 31 12 13 04 03 14 periodically reviewed by the Chairman with the director concerned, as part of the Chairmans regular review of their training and Wayne Edmunds n a 07 08 13 development needs.
If particular training needs are identified, then Mark Harper 10 05 13 plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate Susan Kilsby resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge Nick Land and skills.
TheBoard believes that the identification of individual Peter Ratcliffe training and development needs is primarily the responsibility of Sir Nigel Rudd n a 01 12 13 each individual director, bearing in mind the range of experiences and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
Hansel Tookes 30 09 13 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure Mark Harper was Chairman to 10 May 2013.
Susan Kilsby has been Chairman since that date.
whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its directors as described on page 90.
indb 62 12 03 2014 12:11 Directors Report During 2013 the Remuneration Committee had four scheduled Role Directors Corporate meetings and three additional meetings.
These meetings were The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: Governance Statement minuted by the Group Secretary.
Executive directors, the Group make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the HR Director and Michael Harper attend Remuneration Committee appointment of replacement or additional directors: meetings by invitation.
devise and consider succession planning arrangements for directors and senior executives: and Role regularly review the structure, size and composition of The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: the Board and make recommendations to the Board with making recommendations to the Board on the framework and regard to any changes.
Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and other designated senior executives: and Work of the Committee determining on behalf of the Board the specific The Nomination Committee evaluates the existing balance remuneration package for each of the executive directors, of experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity including pension rights and any compensation payments.
of backgrounds on the Board when the Committee considers Board succession planning.
The Committee recognises that Work of the Committee promoting an inclusive environment and diverse participation Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee on the Board requires that the external search consultants used appear in the Directors Remuneration Report.
bythe Board to identify future candidates for a Board role be requested to approach their search with these goals in mind.
Nomination Committee Other factors that also need to be taken into account are the Composition current and future requirements of the Company and, in the case The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2013 is of a non-executive appointment, the time commitment expected.
setout in the table below.
Wayne Edmunds and Sir Nigel Rudd The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable were appointed to the Committee on 7 August 2013 and external search consultants for the vacancy and preparing details 1December 2013 respectively.
Mark Harper and Hansel Tookes of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Such resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board on 10 May consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for 2013 and 30 September 2013 respectively.
TheNomination executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process differs in its Committee now comprises the Chairman and five independent detail depending on whether the appointment is for an executive non-executive directors.
or non-executive position, but the essentials remain thesame.
JCA Group was appointed to assist with the selection During Year 01 01 13 Resigned Appointed 31 12 13 04 03 14 processes that resulted in the appointment of Wayne Edmunds and Sir Nigel Rudd in 2013.
JCA Group does not have any other Wayne connection with BBA Aviation plc.
Edmunds n a 07 08 13 JCA Group presented to the Board a list of potential Michael Harper candidates and a shortlist was created through consultation Chairman amongst Nomination Committee members.
The Board as a Mark Harper 10 05 13 whole was updated regularly on the status of the appointment Susan Kilsby process.
The selected candidates met with the Committee Nick Land members as appropriate and the Committee made sure that each Board member was given the opportunity to meet any Peter Ratcliffe short-listed candidates.
Sir Nigel Rudd n a 01 12 13 The Nomination Committee would then meet to finalise Hansel Tookes 30 09 13 a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
The final decision rests with the full Board.
Other directors attend Nomination Committee meetings by Further details about Board appointments and the work invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
of the Nomination Committee are set out in section 6 above.
During 2013 the Committee had one scheduled meeting and four additional meetings.
This was supplemented by informal meetings, individual briefings and meetings between Committee members.
indb 63 12 03 2014 12:11 Directors Report c. Audit and Risk Committee During 2013, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled Directors Corporate meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial Governance Statement Nick Land reporting and audit cycle.
The external auditor and Head of Chairman of the Audit Group Internal Audit attend these meetings which are minuted and Risk Committee by the Group Secretary.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part of the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
In 2013 the Audit and Risk Committee held three confidential sessions without The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from management present with the Head of Group Internal Audit the description of its role, discharges a number of key and with the external auditor and in addition, the Chairman of responsibilities on behalf of the Board and the Company.
the Committee met with the auditor on a number of occasions Thisincludes monitoring BBA Aviations financial reporting during the year and through to February 2014.
The Committee processes, overseeing the work of the internal audit team Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any Director or and reporting on the independence and objectivity of the Companys external auditor.
While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the Role whole Board, the oversight of the processes that underpin The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that risk assessment and internal control are matters that the might have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary Board delegates to this Committee.
For the production of roles are to: the 2013 Report and Accounts the Audit and Risk Committee monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys has been asked by the Board to advise whether the Report internal control and risk assessment: and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal understandable and provide the information necessary for audit function: shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business review and assess the Companys external audit function model and strategy.
including the annual audit plan and results of the external The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out audit and the independence of the external auditor: below and also in sections 10-11. monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Nick Land Companys financial performance, including a review of Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee thesignificant financial reporting judgements contained within them: Composition review the content of the annual report and accounts and The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2013 advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, is set out in the table below.
Wayne Edmunds was appointed balanced and understandable and provide the information to the Committee on 7 August 2013.
Mark Harper and Hansel necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Tookes stepped down as members of the Committee following performance, business model and strategy: and their retirement from the Board on 10 May 2013 and on establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for 30 September 2013 respectively.
All members of the Audit employee disclosure and fraud prevention arrangements and Risk Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Nick Land, the Committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial experience and a professional accountancy qualification Work of the Committee as considered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils The Committee reviews twice yearly reports on the Groups key Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012. business risks and the Audit and Risk Committee members In addition, the other Committee members all have experience all of whom are also members of the Remuneration Committee of corporate financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a are aware of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of professional accountancy qualification.
Wayne Edmunds incentive structures under review.
The Committee assesses has held a number of senior international finance roles.
compliance with the Directors Responsibility Statement.
During Year There is a twice yearly formal report to the Committee on 01 01 13 Resigned Appointed 31 12 13 04 03 14 business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters Wayne asthe review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Edmunds n a 07 08 13 Policy, under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns Nick Land aboutpossible improprieties in matters of financial reporting Chairman or other matters.
In addition, at each meeting the Committee reviews reports on any items arising under that policy.
Mark Harper 10 05 13 The Committee is responsible for making Susan Kilsby recommendations to the Board on matters within its remit, Peter Ratcliffe including regarding the remuneration and appointment of the Hansel Tookes 30 09 13 external auditor.
While the appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in greater detail at least every five years, taking into account a number of factors, including audit effectiveness at 64 6758 BBA AR PART 2 front p22-68.
indd 64 14 03 2014 18:17 Directors Report both operating company and Group-level: quality, continuity i Recording of Exceptional Items within Operating Profit Directors Corporate and depth of resources: and expertise and competitiveness of The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating Governance Statement fees.
The appointment of the Senior Statutory Auditor is also profit within a middle column within the income statement.
rotated every five years and, having completed his five years, These items relate to restructuring activities, environmental Nigel Mercer rotated off and was replaced by Ed Hanson on costs associated with businesses which have been exited, completion of the 2012 Audit.
Whilst the company has kept transaction costs associated with acquisitions and disposals under review the relationship and effectiveness of the external and the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
auditor, no formal tender of the external audit has been carried The Committee was satisfied that the policy had been out since Deloittes appointment.
The Committee is mindful of applied consistently and these items had been properly the requirements under the Code that the Audit should be put defined in the Strategic Report and the financial statements out to tender every ten years and has concluded that it will such that the user of the accounts can understand the impact re-tender the external audit during the coming year.
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its ii Accrual for Current Taxation Liabilities responsibilities through the review of written reports circulated As part of the process of concluding upon the Groups in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and financial statements, management is required to calculate tax any other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
As detailed in Critical accounting judgements and Topics covered by the Committee during 2013 and to key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 1, this process date in 2014included: involves estimates of the current tax exposures and potential review of any significant financial reporting issues and recoveries.
While the Group aims to ensure that these accruals judgements in respect of the half-year results and year-end are accurate, the process for agreeing tax liabilities with the report and accounts described in more detail in section tax authorities can take several years.
Judgement is therefore 10 below : required in determining the provision for tax.
review of any significant matters raised by the internal The Committee addressed these issues through a range auditors: of reporting from senior management during the year consideration of the audit fee and the balance between and a process of challenging the appropriateness of audit and non-audit fees: managements views including the degree to which they are assessment of the risk of the possible withdrawal of Deloitte supported by external professional advice as well as receiving LLP from the external auditor market: a report from Deloitte LLP on their findings from their audit annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, procedures.
During the year there was some progress in of the schedule of the Committees agenda items for the clarifying the position in respect of past tax years: as a result forthcoming year, of the non-audit services policy and the amount of accruals held for current liabilities has reduced of BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels: by $11.2 million.
discussion of steps taken to mitigate Euro zone risk and consideration of the stability of core relationship banks: iii Provision for excess and obsolete inventory discussion of the further development of Group Internal The group holds significant inventory across its operations Audits overall strategy and approach including the with $199.7 million of net inventory at 31 December 2013. conclusions from an enterprise risk assurance mapping This inventory is held at cost net of a provision for slow project: moving or obsolete inventory.
As detailed in Critical auditor independence and audit effectiveness described accounting judgements and key sources of estimation in more detail in section 11 below : and uncertainty in Note 1, key to the estimation of this system of internal control described in more detail provision is an assessment of the remaining lives of the in section 11 below.
engine platforms, the estimated frequency of overhauls and the expected future usage of inventory based upon 10.
Significant Financial Reporting Issues Considered by the past experience and the level of write-offs in previous years.
Audit and Risk Committee During the year management undertook a review of the To aid its review, the Committee considers reports from the consistency in the estimations of the excess and obsolete Chief Financial Officer and Group Controller and also reports inventory of engine and aircraft components across the from the outcome of the half-year review and annual audit.
An amendment was made to the policy Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the necessary which is designed to achieve a greater level of consistency professional scepticism their role requires.
The primary areas of across the Division, as well as more precisely defining the judgement considered by the Committee in relation to the 2013 basis for provisioning.
Financial Statements and how these were addressed were: The Committee carefully examined the revised policy and recording of exceptional items within operating profit: the impact of its application as well as receiving a report from accrual for current taxation liabilities: Deloitte LLP on their findings from their audit procedures.
provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory: and recognition of revenue in respect of sale and leaseback transactions.
iv Recognition of Revenue in Respect of Engine Sale and Leaseback Transactions These issues were discussed with management and the external During the year the engine repair and overhaul business sold auditor in the September meeting when signing off on the and subsequently leased back a number of engines in the auditors plan for the year end and no new areas were identified normal course of its business: these leases have been treated subsequently.
indb 65 12 03 2014 12:11 Directors Report In concluding on this treatment management have considered If fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax Directors Corporate the terms of the leases and have sought third party valuation to services are expected to exceed 250,000 in a particular year, Governance Statement assess the balance of transfer of risks and rewards with the lessor.
then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman is required to The Committee addressed this matter through receiving reports pre-approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval from management as well as receiving a report from Deloitte LLP is required by the Committee Chairman for any such project on their findings from their audit procedures.
Pre-approval is required for non-tax projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000.
Audit and Accountability These limits are also reviewed annually.
Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness Deloitte LLP have confirmed that all non-audit services Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review they performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical and monitoring of the external auditors independence and Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
On the basis of their own review of the services performed, The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness the requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, assessment in respect of work carried out during the year the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently by the external auditor, including: provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and and objectivity.
audit team: effectiveness of audit planning and execution: b.
Systems of Internal Control the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control communication with and support of the Audit & Risk and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
Committee: and Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this the formal reporting of the auditor.
system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing The assessment was completed with input in the form of a process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, survey of the key financial management team including the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Divisional CFOs, the Group Financial Controller and Tax Director, Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The together with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Group considers that it has adequate information to identify Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also and assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long input their views and it was concluded that the external audit and short-term value.
for 2013 had provided appropriate focus and challenge on the This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit 31 December 2013 and up to 4 March 2014 and the directors to be good.
The Audit and Risk Committee has also carried out can therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness a self-assessment and believes that it has satisfied the in accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code requirements of the Code and the Guidance on Audit throughout that period.
Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually September 2012.
The Committee has confirmed that during the by the directors and accords with the guidance issued by the year it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: Internal Control: corporate reporting and risk management and internal control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with Turnbull guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather the Companys auditor.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity Itcan provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against and independence is the Groups policy on the provision of material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, Go to page 21 non-audit services by its external auditor.
The policy is reviewed taking account of costs and benefits.
Our Risks each year and since December 2012, the policy prohibits the The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group For more detail on principal risks Groups external auditors from carrying out remuneration faces are summarised on page 21, together with a description of consultancy and tax planning work for the Group.
The external theirpotential impact and mitigations in place.
The main features auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number of other of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are services for the Group such as book-keeping, internal audit, listed below.
valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and implementation.
Services which the external auditor may be 1.
The risks identified through a detailed written selfpermitted to carry out include assurance services such as assessment process carried out by division and by function reporting accountant work and tax compliance services.
The are recorded on arisk register together with the mitigations Companys policy is not to use the external auditor for acquisition in place.
This covers arange of different types of risks, such as: and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers business: it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other than the financial: preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only compliance: include the external auditor in unusual and exceptional operational: and circumstances.
other categories of risks including health, safety and Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are environmental risks.
regularly reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2013 areset out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
indb 66 12 03 2014 12:11 Directors Report In addition, the risks identified are plotted on risk maps and 9.
A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior Directors Corporate both the self-assessments and the risk maps are reviewed by executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, Governance Statement Group Internal Audit and by senior management at review capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts meetings held with each business.
The outcome from these and treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk reviews is thendiscussed twice each year at meetings of the Committee on behalf of theBoard and is reviewed on an Executive Management Committee, with the results being annual basis.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the internal presented by the Group Finance Director to the Audit and audit process.
Risk Committee, which in turn reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies Based on this information the Board reviews the risks and or businesses are approved by the Board.
confirms they are satisfied that the risks are appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case they request that 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures management take further action.
concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and entertainments, equal opportunities and anti- 2.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office harassment, competition law, legal policy, data privacy, anddivisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for corporate social responsibility, market disclosure and operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company communications and share dealing.
A review of compliance secretarial and insurance functions.
with such policies by Group companies is carried out twice a year and senior executives are also required to confirm 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of compliance with certain policies twice a year.
Group policies risk-based reviews of controls and business processes.
are complemented by divisional and Company-led initiatives The role of internal audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards Conduct Policy which includes a 24-hour hotline available which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and its to all employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation reporting processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives protocol and regular reporting to the Audit and Risk a report from internal audit at each meeting which includes Committee as part of the twice yearly report on Business opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of controls by Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy site, together with a summary of key issues, work schedules seeks to codify the overarching principles and processes that and details of any action required.
In accordance with the UK underlie the various elements set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Code, the Audit and Risk Committee Code of Business Ethics and thepolicies on bribery and monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit using corruption and gifts and entertainments.
Compliance with outside specialists as well as self-assessment techniques.
all these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning the appointment and remuneration of foreign 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and agents is reviewed as part of theongoing BBA Aviation Internal Audit Programme.
The effectiveness of these policies financial controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting policies are aligned with International Financial is assessed alongside the risk review process described in item 1 above.
Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
A Group Safety Management System Manual details policies, 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets standards and procedures which are applicable throughout the Group.
Annual self-assessment and or audits are carried for each of the Groups reporting units.
out at company level against these Group standards.
Anexecutive summary Health, Safety and Environmental 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to management which measure actual performance against HSE report is tabled at each meeting of the Executive Management Committee.
The Board also receives a budget and forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
summary HSE report in addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Group companies and are prepared Amonthly report is provided to the Board, based on these management accounts, highlighting key issues and by the internal Group HSE function.
Key HSE performance metrics are reviewed and verified annually by an summarising the detailed financial information provided by the operating units.
The integrity of management accounts independent third party organisation.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives are tied in part with the underlying financial records is subject to review as part of the internal audit process.
to their success against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
Further details about HSE matters are set out in 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012-2013 on the BBA Aviation website.
BBA Aviations Group Internal authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by the Board and by post-investment appraisals.
Thelessons Audit team includes a number of questions on CSR matters in the annual Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which learned from the post-investment appraisals are also shared with members of senior management.
is completed by each of the operating businesses.
The responses are reviewed and collated by Group Internal Audit 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency and then discussed by the Groups CSR Steering Committee and used in the development of future CSR action plans.
and commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
Shareholder Relations Directors Corporate The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on the views Governance Statement of BBA Aviations majorshareholders.
The executive directors undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue with the Companys providers of finance.
The Board receives formal written reports from its brokers as well as reports from the executive directors regarding the views of shareholders following its preliminary and half yearly results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders ahead of the 2013 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any issues or questions.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Chairman also maintain contact as required with major shareholders about directors remuneration matters.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, including its current Senior Independent Director, have a good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the Code.
The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended that notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Michael Harper as Chairman ofthe Board and the Nomination Committee, Nick Land as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director, and Susan Kilsby as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will each be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against, at discretion and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are announced to the market via a Regulatory News Service.
Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by the Board on 4 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: Michael Harper Chairman 68 BBA complete.
