| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Communication and shareholder engagement UK Corporate Governance Code As a responsible organisation, we believe that engaging with The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted shareholders and encouraging open, meaningful dialogue with to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the the Company is vital to ensuring mutual understanding.
You can UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code published read more about shareholder engagement in this section and in by the Financial Reporting Council and publicly available at the meantime, my fellow Directors and I look forward to continued www.
We were early adopters of the Code in 2012 and dialogue and meeting with shareholders at our AGM in May.
it remained the standard against which we measured ourselves throughout the financial year to 31 December 2013.
The Board It has been another year of significant progress and I remain fully supports the principles set out in the Code and confirms happy with the Boards activity across our governance agenda.
that throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and to However, we will continue to challenge ourselves and the the date of this Report, we applied the main Principles and business and to consider and to learn from our decisions complied with the relevant Provisions of the Code.
The Report to ensure that we build upon the existing strength of our that follows sets out our governance policies and practices governance structure.
and includes details of how the Group has applied the main Principles and complied with the relevant Provisions of the Peter Smith Code using the key themes of the Code as the framework Chairman of Savills plc within which we articulate our governance.
19 March 2014 Our approach to Leadership, Effectiveness and Accountability is set out in more detail on pages 39 to 43, 44 to 46 and 47 to 50, respectively.
Leadership Governance structure The Groups corporate governance framework is set out below.
Board Chairman, 2 Executive Directors and 4 Non-Executive Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Chief Committee Committee Committee Executive Group Executive Board CR Steering Group Risk Group Committee Role of the Board Matters reserved to the Board The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically leadership and to oversee the overall strategic development of reserved to it for decision making.
A full schedule of matters the Group.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and reserved for the Boards decision along with the Terms of standards and ensures that the Groups businesses act ethically Reference of the Boards principal committees can be found and that its obligations to its shareholders are understood on the Companys website at www.
The Board delegates to management the day to day operation of the business to the Group Chief Executive, supported by the Group Executive Board, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
Savills plc 39 Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board is specifically responsible for: Strategy and objectives Risk management Reviewing and approving the Groups strategy, objectives, business Establishing, monitoring and regulating the levels of risk which the Group plans and budgets with a view to maintaining the Groups established is willing to accept in return for economic success and implementing entrepreneurial driven business culture.
Following implementation systems of internal control, governance and approval authorities to the Board continuously monitors and analyses actual performance safeguard shareholder investments.
against desired outcomes and where necessary, agrees adjustments Regularly analysing the impact of the Groups adopted risk to reward or changes to the strategic plan to ensure the Group achieves its ratio against expected outcomes to ensure that the level of risk adopted short, medium and long term objectives.
by the Board is appropriate such that it can be effectively managed by Considering, testing and approving significant capital investment projects the Groups businesses and neither constrains growth nor has a negative in line with strategy and taking a measured approach with the aim of: impact on the Groups reputation or finances.
In response to actual maintaining our position as a market leader: strengthening our presence outcomes and or changes in the internal and external environments, in an existing market: or establishing the Savills brand in new markets regulating acceptable risk levels to reflect the evolution of strategy.
through acquisitions or partnerships with well established high calibre local businesses with the skills to complement our existing capabilities and the ability to sit comfortably within the Savills business model.
Where necessary, reviewing and approving divesting initiatives.
Governance Finance performance Overseeing the performance of the Board and its principal Committees Reviewing the performance of the Groups businesses profits and cash and that of individual Directors to ensure that they continue to be effective management initiatives, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, in support of Group strategy, policy and practice.
business plans and budgets to ensure that the financial resources generated by the businesses work to create additional value, costs are Planning to refresh or replace retiring or outgoing Directors so as to ensure controlled and or eliminated and that resource can be made available that the different skills, experience and knowledge of the Directors is such at the appropriate time to exploit business opportunities.
that the Group remains capable of adapting to the changing environment as a consequence of it being directed by a set of competent, well rounded Reviewing changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of individuals who have the ability to formulate sensible and practical ideas any securities in the context of achieving efficiencies or reducing the capable of being translated into strategies which deliver results.
cost of capital to the Group.
In line with the Boards commitment to operate the Groups businesses on Approving annual and half year results and interim management an ethical, moral and legally sound basis from the top down overseeing statements, and accounting policies so as to ensure that the development and approval of the Groups governance structure and communication with the Groups shareholders is fair, understandable policies such as the Groups Code of Conduct, standards of ethics and and balanced: and, subject to shareholder approval, the appointment policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social and the remuneration of the External Auditor and community responsibilities to ensure that the Group continues to do Approving the dividend policy and interim and supplemental dividends the right thing and remains compliant with regulatory and legal and recommending final dividends which are appropriate to the Groups requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
strategy, reflect the performance of the Group and give Savills the ability to continue to attract inward investment.
The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the Board activity Group Chief Executive supported by the Group Executive Board As detailed above, although the Board has a schedule of matters referred to on page 41. reserved to it for formal decision, there has to be a level of flexibility to meet the evolving needs of the business and we endeavour to Board meetings develop our processes in order to support growth and to achieve Attendance table continuous improvement across the Group.
Meetings Meetings eligible to Below is a chart which shows in simple terms those areas on attended attend which your Board has been focused during 2013 and which Non-Executive Directors will remain key in the coming year.
Peter Smith 8 8 Martin Angle 8 8 Strategy Leadership and risk Tim Freshwater 8 8 Strategy setting Entrepreneurial support Clare Hollingsworth 8 8 Target delivery Succession planning Achievement of goals Oversight of operational Charles McVeigh 8 8 management Executive Directors Jeremy Helsby 8 8 Simon Shaw 8 8 Governance Finance Members of the Group Executive Board.
Assurance and Setting internal compliance control framework The Board met formally eight times during the year and there Board management Capital management was full attendance at all meetings by Directors, as shown and effectiveness Overview and preparation in the table above.
Remuneration policy in of financial statements support of strategy At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the duties above and received updates on the Groups financial performance: key management changes: material new projects: financial plans: and legal and regulatory updates.
40 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements The Directors receive management information, including financial, Board Committees operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
The principal Committees of the Board are listed below.
A more detailed account of each of the Committees including The Board receives presentations from the Heads of the Principal an introduction from the Committee Chairman can be found Businesses and Functions on matters of significance and in the pages which follow.
periodically meetings are held in regional centres to give the Board greater insight into the business in that region.
The Group Legal Nomination Committee Director & Company Secretary provides the Board with updates The Nomination Committee is responsible for the size, structure and reports covering legal developments and regulatory changes.
and composition of the Board, for reviewing and progressing appointments and for successional planning to ensure that One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically the Board is progressively refreshed such that the balance of devoted to the review and reconfirmation of the Groups strategy.
skills and experience remains appropriate to the needs of the This meeting benefited from presentations and discussions with business.
The Committee also makes recommendations to a number of the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
The delivery the Board on the membership of the principal Committees of of strategic plans is continually monitored and reviewed by the the Board.
Details of the Nomination Committee can be found Board and periodic updates on progress and market developments on page 46. are presented by the Heads of the Principal Businesses.
Audit Committee The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow open The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in discussion.
All Directors receive detailed papers in advance of fulfilling its financial and risk responsibilities, in particular for Board meetings to ensure that they are properly briefed on the ensuring that the financial statements are fair, balanced and matters to be discussed.
When unable to be present in person, understandable.
It oversees financial reporting, internal control, Directors may attend by audio or video conference.
When risk management and reviews the work of the Internal and Directors are unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, External Auditors and advises the Board on the appointment their comments on the matters to be considered at that meeting of the External Auditor.
are relayed in advance to the Chairman of that meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least once each The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining year without the presence of the Executive Directors and also the remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Chairman, at which time and for reviewing that of the Group members and the Group the Chairmans performance is appraised.
The Directors Remuneration Report can be found on pages 54 to 71.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible for advising and Group Executive Board GEB supporting the Chairman and the Board on company law and The GEB is the key management committee for the Group and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial procedures are followed, as well as ensuring that there is a Officer, the Heads of the Principal Businesses and the Group smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
The GEB meets regularly All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the and under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, the GEB Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and through him is responsible for the day to day management of the Group have access to independent professional advice in respect of including overseeing the development and implementation of their duties at the Companys expense.
strategy, capital expenditure, and investment budgets, for ongoing review and control of Group risks as detailed on page 29 and In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, implementing Company has granted Directors and the Group Legal Director Group policy, monitoring financial and operational performance & Company Secretary an indemnity, to the extent permitted by of the Group and other specific matters delegated to it by law, in respect of any liabilities incurred as a result of their holding the Board.
Such indemnities were in force during the financial year to 31 December 2013 and up to the date of this Report.
The An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value, indemnities would not, however, provide cover where a Director and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the or the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary is proved Group Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 25. to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action Members of the GEB are detailed on page 43. against its Directors and Officers.
Savills plc 41 Report and Accounts 2013
