Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report JohN SAlMoN Chair of the Audit Committee RolE oF thE CoMMittEE the Committees primary role is to assist the board in the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting.
it is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Financial Statements and considering whether accounting policies adopted are appropriate.
it also reviews the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, and considers the activities, plans and effectiveness of both the Groups internal audit function and its external auditor.
the Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
the terms of reference were reviewed during 2013 to ensure that they continue to reflect accurately the Committees remit.
CoMMittEE MEMbERShiP the Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to the board as to its membership.
As at the date of this report, the Committee comprises the following independent non-executive directors, all of whom served throughout the financial year unless indicated otherwise below: Director Audit Committee position John Salmon Chair Kay Chaldecott Member lesley James Member st Richard Mully Member from appointment to the Board on 1 September 2013 Simon Clarke and bill Shannon attend meetings of the Committee as observers.
the secretary to the Committee is tanya Stote, Company Secretary.
david Garman and Katherine innes Ker were members of the Committee until their retirement from the board th on 27 March 2013.
Committee members biographical details can be found on pages 56 and 57.
Each member brings broad financial and business experience at a senior level.
As a former partner of  llP, John Salmon, the Committee Chair, is considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have an understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, key aspects of the Companys accounting policies and judgements and internal control arrangements, as well as the role of the internal and external auditors.
ongoing training is undertaken as required.
68 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 AdViCE PRoVidEd to thE CoMMittEE the Committee has direct access to both the internal Audit Manager and external audit engagement partner outside formal Committee meetings.
Whilst permitted to do so, no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to the Committee by the external auditor and the external valuer during the financial year.
CoMMittEE MEEtiNGS th the Committee met on three occasions in the financial year ended 30 November 2013: members attendance at meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
Meetings were scheduled to take place around key events in the Companys financial reporting calendar.
the Group Finance director, Group Financial Controller, internal Audit Manager, the external audit engagement partner and other representatives of deloitte llP, the Groups external auditor, attended meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Representatives of the Groups external valuers, Jones lang laSalle llP, also attended the meetings after the half year and full year valuation processes to present their reports.
Periodically the Committee reserves time for discussion without invitees being present.
on two occasions during the year the Committee held private sessions with the internal Audit Manager and representatives from the external auditor.
ACtiVitiES oF thE CoMMittEE th Matters that were formally reviewed and discussed by the Committee during the year ended 30 November 2013 are set out below.
Financial reporting Monitored the financial reporting process, including the review of the half year and annual results, associated commentary and announcements and the Annual Report.
Following its review, the Committee has advised the board that it is of the view that the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Reviewed the continuing appropriateness of accounting policies and the use of estimates and judgements as noted in the Group Financial Statements, and concluded that the estimates, judgements and assumptions used were reasonable based on the information available and had been used appropriately in applying the Companys accounting policies.
Considered independent property valuation reports prepared by Jones lang laSalle which detailed movements resulting from activities undertaken by the Company and those arising from changes in the property market.
Reviewed reports prepared by the external auditor on the half year and annual results.
Further information on the significant issues that the Committee considered in relation to the Financial Statements, and how these issues were addressed, is set out on page 71.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued ACtiVitiES oF thE CoMMittEE CoNtiNuEd Risk management and internal control Reviewed updates on corporate risk assessment management activities and a presentation on the issues and risks arising from cyber security.
Considered risk registers at both Group and subsidiary level, including appropriate mitigating actions.
Considered reports on the Companys internal control system and the Groups tax compliance position.
Reviewed actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving the Group.
Approved the introduction of a whistleblower hotline operated by an independent third-party specialist provider.
Internal audit Considered updates on the activities of internal audit, including audits on the central functions of information technology andSales ledger to provide assurance that the control environment continued to operate effectively.
Assessed status reports on the implementation of internal audit recommendations.
Considered and approved the internal audit programme of reviews of the Groups processes and controls, including coverage andallocation of resource.
Reviewed the Group internal Audit Charter which sets out the objectives, accountability and independence, authority, responsibilities, scope of work and standards and performance for internal audit.
Reviewed and were satisfied with the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
External auditor Considered and approved the external audit plan.
Reviewed the policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Monitored the independence of deloitte and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Considered the changes to the regulatory framework in respect of external audit tendering.
AlloCAtioN oF tiME SPENt AtAudit CoMMittEE MEEtiNGS iN2012 13 % 15 40 15 15 15 Financial reporting Valuation Risk management and internal control External audit internal audit 70 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 FiNANCiAl REPoRtiNG ANd SiGNiFiCANt FiNANCiAl iSSuES the Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application to the consolidated Financial Statements.
the main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Valuation of investment property the external valuation of the portfolio is a key determinant of the Groups results and balance Sheet.
the Committee adopts a rigorous approach to monitoring and reviewing the independent valuation process undertaken by Jones lang laSalle.
Representatives of Jones lang laSalle attended meetings of the Committee at the half year and full year review of results to present their valuation reports: these included the methodology and outcomes of the valuation, market conditions and significant judgements made, including estimation of remediation and other costs.
Jones lang laSalle also met with members of the Committee prior to the January and June Committees to discuss the valuation.
in addition, deloitte had direct access to the valuers, reviewed the valuations and process and reported its findings to the Committee.
the Committee discussed in detail the rationale underlying significant increases to valuations, particularly those in respect of the residential portfolio, and considered these on a case-by-case basis as appropriate.
the valuation was considered as a whole to ensure that it was appropriate for inclusion in the Financial Statements.
Valuation of inventory the Groups inventory, comprising property held for sale, property under development and land under option, is of significant value.
All inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value and appropriate allowances are made for remediation and other costs to complete.
the Committee reviewed whether any provision was required against the carrying value of inventory, either at Group level or within any joint venture arrangements.
the assessment process undertaken to determine net realisable value was considered by the Committee, which included ongoing monitoring by management as well as detailed reviews at both the half and full year.
External valuations were also provided by Jones lang laSalle for certain sites, typically new build units not yet sold.
Bay Campus, Swansea University the Committee considered the accounting treatment to be applied following the signing of a development agreement with Swansea university in March 2013 for the first phase of the 450m bay Campus.
A detailed paper was presented by management setting out the proposed treatment in respect of revenue streams from the delivery of the campus, the investment sale of the income from the student accommodation to a major investor and the residual income from the accommodation.
both the Committee and deloitte agreed that the treatment proposed, which is on the same basis as the majority of the Companys developments, albeit it on a larger scale, was appropriate.
New Covent Garden Market in January 2013 the Company and ViNCi PlC signed a contract with Covent Garden Market Authority as development partner for the New Covent Garden Market sites in london.
this multi-phased project has a gross development value of approximately 2bn.
the development agreement remains conditional upon, amongst other things, the achievement of improved planning consent, and the Committee agreed and deloitte concurred that it was not appropriate to recognise either an asset or liability in respect of the development until these conditions have been satisfied.
Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre As the sale of the Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre took place immediately before the year end, the Committee received reports from both management and deloitte and were satisfied that it was appropriate to recognise the sale in the financial year.
Tax provisions As a property group, tax planning is often an integral part of transactions.
Where tax planning is entered into, benefits are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Where tax planning has been challenged by hMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the reporting date.
having considered reports from management which addressed individual judgements made in respect of potential tax exposures, the Committee was satisfied and deloitte concurred that the level of tax provisioning at both thefull year and half year was appropriate.
Going concern As the going concern basis relies on forecasts, the Committee considered the assumptions and judgements applied by management in relation to the timing of receipt and payment cash flows, the ongoing availability of funding and covenant compliance.
the Committee concluded that it remains appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
the statement of the directors in respect of going concern is set out on page 101.
Further details on significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates can be found on page 114 of the Group Financial Statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued iNdEPENdENCE oF ExtERNAl AuditoR the Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
the policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, regulate the appointment of former employees of the external audit firm and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditor for non-audit work.
during the year the Committee reviewed the policy governing the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Whilst it recognises that it can be advantageous for the external auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group, the policy only permits this where alternative providers do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the Groups interest for the external auditor to provide such services.
the external auditor would not be invited to provide any non-audit services where it was felt that this could adversely affect their independence or objectivity: such services would include the provision of litigation support, actuarial services or internal audit activities.
the policy sets out areas of work that the external auditor may be permitted to undertake, those areas where the involvement of the external auditor is prohibited and those areas for which a case-by-case decision is required.
With regard to the non-audit services provided by the external auditor the following framework is in place: Audit-related assurance services: substantially all of these services relate to the review of the half year results, which the external auditor is required to undertake byvirtue of its position.
tax compliance services: these are services that are intended to ensure that the Company complies with existing tax regulations.
to date these services have been undertaken by deloitte through a separate tax compliance team to ensure that objectivity and independence is not impaired.
however, in light of the level of non-audit fees, the Committee has agreed with deloitte that a formal tender to appoint an alternative provider of tax compliance services be undertaken by the Company.
tax advisory services: deloitte is one of a number of firms that provide tax advisory services.
Selection is dependent on who is best suited in the circumstances.
tax advisory services provided by deloitte in the year included those in relation to the bay Campus development for Swansea university, RAF uxbridge and Mill hill, and the disposal of the Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre.
Given its detailed understanding of the business, deloitte was able to provide these services more cost efficiently and effectively than an alternative provider who would not have benefitted from the same level of pre-existing knowledge of St. Modwen.
Property consulting: the external auditor does not provide general consultancy services except in certain circumstances, and then only after consideration that it is best placed to provide the service and that its independence and objectivity would not be th compromised.
All property consulting services for which non-audit fees were charged in the years ended 30 November 2012 and2013 were provided by deloitte Real Estate formerly drivers Jonas deloitte, whose engagement in respect of these services pre-dated the firms acquisition by deloitte.
Where it is proposed to use the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services, the policy requires advance approval of both the Group Finance director and the Chair of the Audit Committee if the engagement is anticipated to generate fees in excess of 25,000 or where the fee is contingent in full or in part.
Approval below these levels is required from the Group Finance director.
2013 2012 Audit and Audit and audit-related audit-related services Other services Total services Other services Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Total audit fees 270 270 255 255 Audit-related assurance services 55 55 55 55 other assurance services 20 20 tax compliance services 166 166 150 150 tax advisory services 174 174 171 171 Property consulting 30 30 47 47 Total non-audit fees 55 370 425 75 368 443 Total fees 325 370 695 330 368 698 the Committee has received confirmation from deloitte as to their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
it has also reviewed the fees paid to the deloitte for the provision of non-audit th services during the year ended 30 November 2013 and is satisfied that these do not compromise either their independence or objectivity as the Companys external auditor.
72 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 EFFECtiVENESS oF ExtERNAl Audit PRoCESS the Committee has undertaken a review of deloittes performance and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
the review included a self-assessment carried out by deloitte on audit objectives, leadership, qualification, quality and independence and a review methodology developed by the institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland on external audit effectiveness which had been assessed by management.
the Committee also gave consideration to deloittes experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been met, its robustness and perceptiveness with regard to key accounting and audit judgements, andthecontent of its audit reports.
the Committee remains satisfied with deloittes performance and is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would impact the effectiveness of the external audit process.
APPoiNtMENt oF ExtERNAl AuditoR the Audit Committee has responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
the Audit Committee notes the changes to the Code, the recent findings of the Competition Commission and the Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the context of tendering for the external audit contract at least every 10 years.
the Groups current external auditor, deloitte, was appointed in 2007 following a tender process.
the audit engagement partner responsible for the Groups audit was subsequently rotated for the 2011 12 financial year in line with ethical standards published by the Auditing Practices board and will remain in post until the 2016 17 financial year.
having conducted a full tender within the last 10 years, the Committee will continue to give consideration as to the timing of the next formal tender in light of regulatory requirements and any further changes to the regulatory framework.
there are no contractual obligations which would restrict the Companys selection of an external auditor.
having considered the performance of deloitte including value for money and quality and effectiveness of the audit process, its independence, compliance with relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards and objectivity, the Committee unanimously recommended to the board that a resolution for the re-appointment of deloitte as the Companys external auditor be proposed toshareholders at the 2014 AGM.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73
