Corporate Governance Nomination Committee Report bill ShANNoN Chair of the Nomination Committee RolE oF thE CoMMittEE the Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board and planning its progressive refreshing.
in doing so it evaluates the optimal level of independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, experience and gender required for the board to operate effectively.
the Committee also considers issues of succession planning, both at board and senior management levels.
the Committee leads the process for the identification and selection of new directors and makes recommendations to the board in respect of such appointments.
the Committee also makes recommendations to the board on membership of its Committees and on the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term of office.
the Committee follows board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
the Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
the terms of reference were reviewed during 2013 to ensure that they continue to reflect accurately the Committees remit.
CoMMittEE MEMbERShiP As at the date of this report, the Committee comprises the following independent non-executive directors, all of whom served throughout the financial year unless indicated otherwise below: Director Nomination Committee position bill Shannon Chair th Kay Chaldecott Member from 27 March 2013 lesley James Member st Richard Mully Member from appointment to the Board on 1 September 2013 th John Salmon Member from 27 March 2013 bill Shannon chairs the Committee except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor as Chairman, when the Senior independent director chairs the Committee.
Simon Clarke attends meetings of the Committee as an observer.
the secretary to the Committee is tanya Stote, Company th Secretary.
david Garman was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the board on 27 March 2013.
Committee members biographical details can be found on pages 56 and 57.
AdViCE PRoVidEd to thE CoMMittEE Where necessary and appropriate, external search consultants are used by the Committee to provide support in recruiting and th selecting potential candidates for appointment to the board.
during the financial year ended 30 November 2013 the Zygos Partnership was retained by the Committee as outlined on page 75: the firm has no other connection with the Company.
74 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 ACtiVitiES oF thE CoMMittEE th the Committee met on three occasions in the financial year ended 30 November 2013: members attendance at meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
Matters considered by the Committee included: continued monitoring of the structure, size, composition and diversity of both the board and its Committees: reviewing the leadership needs of and succession planning for the Group: the recruitment of a new non-executive director: making recommendations to the board on the re-appointment of non-executive directors: a review of gender diversity at both board level and throughout the Group: recommending appointment procedures for approval by the board: and potential approaches to the 2013 board and Committee performance evaluation review details of which can be found on page 65. the Zygos Partnership was retained to assist with the search for a suitable candidate to be appointed to the role of Senior independent director.
in accordance with the Committees appointment procedures, a number of candidates were identified, based on an agreed profile, and interviews held.
Following a thorough process, and taking into account the skills and experience required for the role, the board approved the Committees recommendation to appoint Richard Mully as non-executive director with effect st st from 1 September 2013 and as Senior independent director with effect from 1 december 2013. details of the induction arranged for Richard Mully are set out on page 64. in terms of board Committee composition, the Committee determined that, with the exception of the Chairman who is not a member of the Audit Committee, it was appropriate for all independent non-executive directors to be appointed as members of all Committees.
it therefore recommended, and the board approved, the appointment of both Kay Chaldecott and John Salmon to the th Committee with effect from 27 March 2013 and Richard Mullys membership of all board Committees on his appointment to the st board on 1 September 2013. the Committee also reviewed the performance of Simon Clarke and bill Shannon, whose respective terms of office ended during the year.
Noting that Simon Clarke is not deemed to be independent by virtue of his representation of the interests of the Clarke and leavesley families who together hold 17.35% of the Companys issued share capital, the Committee recommended to the board which unanimously approved the re-appointment of both Simon Clarke and bill Shannon for further three year periods.
Succession planning at both board and senior management level was considered by the Committee throughout the year.
the recruitment process to identify an Audit Committee Chair to replace John Salmon, who is nearing the end of his term of office, has commenced.
As detailed on page 100, Richard Mully will retire and offer himself for election at the 2014 AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election to the board.
boARdRooM diVERSity the search for board candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit against objective selection criteria.
diversity, whether in terms of skills, knowledge, experience or gender, is considered by the Committee when reviewing board composition and making recommendations for board appointments or re-appointments.
in terms of gender diversity, the Company currently has 22.2% female representation on the board.
Whilst no formal measurable objectives for female representation at board level have been set, the Committee will continue to ensure that the board has the optimal range of skills, experience and diversity required and will, as part of this process, take into consideration the recommendations of the davies Report on Women on boards.
AlloCAtioN oF tiME SPENt At NoMiNAtioN CoMMittEE MEEtiNGS iN 2012 13 % 7 30 63 Succession planning board composition Administration St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 75
