Corporate Governance Report Chairmans overview As a board, we are responsible for the the performance evaluation review stewardship of the business and are undertaken at the end of the year committed to maintaining high standards highlighted the positive and open culture of corporate governance across the on the board.
the results of this review Group.
We believe good governance are being analysed as this report is enhances business performance as finalised: details of the actions identified well as our reputation within our market and progress towards achieving these place and across relationships with will be disclosed in next years report.
our board Committees have also our approach to governance is continued to perform effectively during outlined in the following report, which the year.
the focus of the Nomination describes how we integrate into our Committee included the leadership business the main principles of the five needs and succession planning at both sections of the 2012 uK Corporate board and senior management level, Governance Code the Code, namely including the recruitment of Richard leadership, effectiveness, accountability, Mully.
the Remuneration Committee remuneration and relations with reviewed the policy for executive director shareholders.
i am pleased to report that, remuneration and worked to ensure that th throughout the financial year ended 30 remuneration arrangements continue to November 2013, the Company complied support the Companys strategy.
As part in full with the Code.
of its remit the Audit Committee reviewed the results of the valuation process of in line with the development of our the Companys property portfolio and business, our governance framework considered the accounting treatment to is kept under close review in order to apply in respect of the developments at ensure that shareholders interests are New Covent Garden Market and the bay safeguarded and to sustain the success Campus for Swansea university.
you will of the Company over the longerfind more on the work of the Committees term.
As reported in my statement on in the corporate governance section of page 19, we have deepened further this Annual Report.
the expertise on the board by the appointment of Richard Mully, who has At this years AGM resolutions will be spent almost 30 years in investment proposed to renew the Companys banking, capital markets and real estate existing Saving Related Share private equity investing, as Senior option Scheme and to approve the independent director.
remuneration policy for directors which st will take effect from 1 december 2014. it is proposed that all votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll rather than a show of hands.
this reflects current best practice and ensures that voting intentions of all shareholders, including those who are not able to attend the AGM but who have appointed proxies, are taken into account.
the notice of meeting, which includes the special business to be transacted and an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM, is set out on pages 155 to 164. i hope that you find the corporate governance section of this report informative and i look forward to seeing you at our AGM in March.
bill Shannon Chairman St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued lEAdERShiP The Board The Board Chairman, non-executive and executive directors the board provides leadership of the Company and direction for management.
boARd-lEVEl CoMMittEES it is collectively responsible and accountable to shareholders for the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee long-term success of the Company.
independent Chairman and independent Chairman and independent it sets the strategy, oversees non-executive directors non-executive directors non-executive directors implementation and reviews performance, ensuring that only ExECutiVE CoMMittEES acceptable risks are taken and the appropriate people and resources are in place to deliver long-term value Executive Team Property Board Health and Safety to shareholders and benefits to the executive directors and executive directors, Steering Group wider community.
Company Secretary regional directors and Senior management Company Secretary to help retain control of key decisions, the board has put in place a formal schedule of reserved matters that require the board delegates responsibility for the Audit Committee monitors the its approval.
the principal reserved the implementation of strategy to the integrity of the financial reporting and matters include: executive directors.
audit processes, reviews external valuations of the property portfolio strategy: the Executive Team, comprising the and assesses the Companys risk executive directors and the Company new business or geographical areas: management and internal control Secretary, meets weekly to discuss key systems.
A report on its activities during authorisation of transactions in operational matters.
the year is given on pages 68 to 73. excess of 10m and those which are the Property Board meets monthly otherwise significant: the Remuneration Committee toreview performance and consider determines and agrees with the board risk management and internal control: Group-wide issues and initiatives.
the Groups general policy on executive dividend policy: and senior management remuneration the Health and Safety Steering Group, and designs the Companys share led by the Construction director, documents to shareholders and incentive schemes.
the directors has oversight of the formulation the annual and half year report and Remuneration Report is set out on and implementation of the Groups financial statements: pages 76 to 97. approach to health and safety and matters relating to share capital, such monitors performance.
the Nomination Committee as share issues or buybacks: and the board also delegates certain recommends board and board the appointment removal of directors responsibilities to a number of board Committee appointments which and the Company Secretary.
Committees membership of these ensure an appropriate mix of skills and Committees is set out on pages 56 experience and reviews succession and 57. planning against the leadership needs of the Group.
A report on its activities during the year is given on pages 74 and 75.
60 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Each Committee has written terms of The Chief Executive Senior Independent Director reference which have been approved by bill oliver, the Chief Executive, is Richard Mully, as Senior independent the board and are reviewed periodically responsible for the day-to-day director, is responsible for ensuring to ensure that they continue to comply management of the Groups business, that the views of each non-executive with legal and regulatory requirements for recommending the Groups strategy director are given due consideration and and best practice guidance.
to the board and for implementing the to provide an additional communication strategy agreed by the board.
Board roles the board comprises the Chairman, Role profiles setting out the division Board activity the executive directors, a Senior of responsibilities between both the the board discharges its responsibilities independent director and four Chairman and the Chief Executive have through an annual programme of board non-executive directors.
been approved by the board.
typically the board meets formally nine times a The Chairman Executive directors year: directors attendance at meetings As Chairman, bill Shannons role is to Michael dunn, Group Finance director, held in 2012 13 is set out on page lead the board.
he is responsible for and Steve burke, Construction director, 63. the board also visits sites within ensuring both an effective board and support bill oliver in devising and the Companys property portfolio: in effective contribution from the directors implementing strategy and in the 2013 the board visited london to view based on a culture of openness, debate management of the business.
New Covent Garden Market, leegate and constructive challenge.
Shopping Centre and Elephant & Castle Non-executive directors the Chairman sets the boards agenda Shopping Centre, together with Great the non-executive directors, who and chairs board meetings, ensuring homer Streetin liverpool, lowfield lane have a range of complementary skills, that adequate time is available for in St. helens, Vulcan urban Village in constructively challenge the executive discussion of all agenda items, Newton-le-Willows and Wythenshawe directors, help to develop the Companys particularly strategic issues.
he also town Centre in Manchester.
strategy and monitor delivery of the ensures that directors receive accurate, agreed strategy within the risk and timely and clear information to enable control framework set by the board.
them to carry out their duties effectively.
With the exception of Simon Clarke, who the Chairman takes the lead in providing represents the interests of the Clarke and a comprehensive, formal and tailored leavesley families which together hold induction programme for new directors 19.4% of the Companys issued share and regularly reviews and agrees capital, all non-executive directors are with each director any training and deemed to be independent.
he leads on board performance evaluation and ensures that effective communication occurs between the Company and its shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a 12 month rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that all matters reserved to the board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Key activities of the Board in 2012 2013 Standing agenda items included: Annual strategy review Approval of the half year and annual results, the Annual Report, the notice Reports from the Chief Executive, the of AGM and dividends Construction director andthe Group Finance director investor feedback Reports on the activities of hR reports the Audit, Remuneration and Reports from the trustee of the Nomination Committees Companys pension scheme Financing directors conflicts of interest Property acquisitions and disposals Actions arising from board Risk and risk management performance evaluation health and safety reports Key agenda items also considered included: Equity placing which raised gross Presentations from Numis Securities proceeds of 49m and J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the Companys joint brokers, and Fti Entering a development agreement Consulting, the Companys financial in respect of the New Covent Garden PR advisers Market sites in Nine Elms, london gross development value of circa 2bn Review of the Groups leadership development programme the bay Campus development for Swansea university first phase of Appointment of Richard Mully as 450m development non-executive director and Senior independent director disposal of the Elephant & Castle Shopping Centre by the Companys Appointment of Kay Chaldecott KPi joint venture sold for 80m, and John Salmon to the representing a yieldof4.25% Nomination Committee lease to Marks & Spencer at Re-appointment of bill Shannon and longbridge 150,000 sq ft over Simon Clarke 45 years Review of fees payable to the Progress at the baglan bay Solar Park Chairman and non-executive directors AlloCAtioN oF tiME SPENt At boARd MEEtiNGS iN 2012 13 % 10 35 25 30 Strategy Finance and Risk operations Governance 62 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 1 Board and Committee meetings and attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Main Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman bill Shannon 9 9 4 4 3 3 Executive directors bill oliver 9 9 Steve burke 9 9 Michael dunn 9 9 Non-executive directors 2 Kay Chaldecott 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 3 Simon Clarke 8 9 4 lesley James 8 9 3 3 4 4 3 3 5 Richard Mully 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 John Salmon 9 9 3 3 4 4 2 2 Former non-executive directors 6 david Garman 3 4 1 1 0 1 0 1 7 Katherine innes Ker 3 4 1 1 1 1 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
2 Kay Chaldecott and John Salmon were appointed to the Nomination Committee with effect from th 27March 2013.
3 Simon Clarke was unable to attend the board meeting in January due to a prior business commitment.
4 lesley James was unable to attend the board meeting in May due to a prior personal commitment.
st 5 Richard Mully was appointed to the board on 1 September 2013. th 6 david Garman retired from the board on 27March 2013. he was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting in January and the Nomination Committee and board meetings inFebruary due to prior business commitments.
th 7 Katherine innes Ker retired from the board on 27 March 2013.
She was unable to attend the board meeting in February due to a prior business commitment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued EFFECtiVENESS independence and a broad range of relating to membership of board skills, experience, knowledge and Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
Board composition diversity, including gender diversity, Major shareholders are also offered the board composition continues to develop are represented on the board.
opportunity to meet newly appointed and was further strengthened during the biographical details of all directors are directors should they express a desire year with the appointment of Richard given on pages 56 and 57. to do so.
this induction process was Mully as a non-executive director applied following the appointment of the board acknowledges the in September 2013 and as Senior Richard Mully in September 2013. importance of diversity in all forms and independent director with effect from st recognises the benefits that it can bring the Company is committed to the 1december 2013. to both the board and throughout the continuing development of directors the board currently comprises three business.
in terms of gender diversity, in order that they may build on executive and six non-executive the Company currently has 22.2% their expertise and develop an ever directors, including the Chairman.
female representation on the board.
more detailed understanding of the With the exception of Simon Clarke, Further information on gender diversity business and the markets in which theboard considers that all of the throughout the Group can be found on St. Modwen operates.
training and non-executive directors are independent page 54. development needs are discussed with and is not aware of any relationship each director by the Chairman as part or circumstance likely to affect the At the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the annual individual performance judgement of any director.
AGM, and in accordance with the evaluation process and kept under Companys Articles of Association, review.
development activities include Recommendations for appointments to shareholders will be asked to elect visits to sites within the Companys the board are made by the Nomination Richard Mully to the board.
All other property portfolio, both as a board and Committee.
the Committee follows directors will seek re-election in individually, regular presentations to the board-approved procedures which accordance with the provisions of board by regional directors and senior provide a framework for different types the Code.
management on key issues and projects, of board appointments on which the Induction and development and meetings with Jones lang laSalle Committee may be expected to make llP to review their external property recommendations.
Appointments are the Chairman, assisted by the valuation reports.
the attendance by made on merit and against objective Company Secretary, is responsible members of board Committees on criteria with due regard to diversity for the induction of all new directors.
courses relevant to aspects of their including skill, experience and gender.
on joining the board, a director respective Committee specialisms Non-executive appointees are also receives a comprehensive induction isalso encouraged.
required to demonstrate that they have pack which includes background sufficient time to devote to the role.
information on the Company, material on matters relating to the activities these procedures were used by of the board and its Committees the Nomination Committee in and governance-related information recommending to the board the including the duties and responsibilities appointment of Richard Mully as a of directors.
Meetings are arranged with non-executive director.
the Committee the executive directors, for briefings also engaged the services of an external on strategy and performance, as well search consultant in relation to the as the external auditor and valuers.
Further information can Visits to key sites within the Companys be found in the Nomination Committee property portfolio are scheduled and Report on pages 74 and 75. external training, particularly on matters diRECtoRS iNdEPENdENCE SKillS tENuRE oF diRECtoRS AS At th NuMbER oF diRECtoRS NuMbER oF diRECtoRS 30NoVEMbER 2013 yEARS 1 2 3 4 5 3 5 2 2 independent Property and operations less than 3 Non-independent Finance 36 hR 79 More than 9 64 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Information and support Performance evaluation outputs from these activities were All directors have direct access to the building on the external effectiveness presented to the board in december advice and services of the Company review of the board and its Committees 2013: these remain under consideration Secretary, who is tasked with ensuring conducted by dr. tracy long of and key areas of focus will be agreed that board procedures are complied boardroom Review in 2012, the 2013 bythe board in early 2014. with.
in addition, all directors are able review comprised the following activities: the individual performance of the toseek independent professional advice directors was evaluated through a meeting of the non-executive in the course of their professional duties one-to-one discussions with the directors led by the Chairman: at the Companys expense.
John Salmon, as interim individual one-to-one discussions Senior independent director, led the the Company Secretary is responsible between the Chairman and all review by the non-executive directors of for advising the board through the directors plus the Company Secretary: the Chairmans performance, which took Chairman on all governance matters.
into account the views of the executive She works with the Chairman to ensure assessment of the Audit and directors.
No actions were considered good information flows between the Remuneration Committees by way of necessary as a result of these board and its Committees and between a questionnaire, which was completed evaluations and the Chairman confirms senior management and non-executive by relevant Committee members and that the performance of each director directors, as well as facilitating the meeting attendees: continues to be effective, that they induction of directors and assisting consideration of progress made continue to demonstrate commitment with their professional development against actions arising from the 2012 to their respective roles, and that as required.
All board Committees are review.
details of the key actions can their respective skills complement supported by the Company Secretary.
be found in the table below: and one another to enhance the overall operationof the board.
observation of a board meeting and review of associated papers by dr. tracy long.
boARd GENdER SPlit PRoGRESS AGAiNSt KEy ACtioNS FRoM 2012boARdEVAluAtioN REViEW Enhanced strategic review process to accommodate directors collective and individual requests and desired outcomes.
2 Strengthening of non-executive expertise with the appointment of Richard Mully.
Non-executive director membership ofall board Committees aligned.
Further engagement on leadership development and succession planning by the board and the Nomination Committee.
7 Men Women St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued ACCouNtAbility management is supported by an Whistleblowing oversight structure which includes the the Audit Committee oversees an Financial and business reporting Audit Committee.
the risk management independently operated whistleblowing When reporting to shareholders, the and internal control systems of facility to enable employees to raise board aims to present a fair, balanced St. Modwen are designed to identify, concerns on a confidential basis.
and understandable assessment of manage and, where practicable, reduce the Audit Committee ensures that the Companys position and prospects and mitigate the effect of the risk of independent investigation of any and is assisted in this by the Audit failure to achieve business objectives.
this responsibility covers they are not designed to eliminate such the annual and half year report and Assurance risk and can only provide reasonable, financial statements, other price sensitive the Audit Committee is responsible for not absolute, assurance against material public reports, reports to regulators and reviewing the ongoing control process.
information required to be presented during the year it considered the System of risk management and by statute.
the assessment for the year effectiveness of the systems of internal th internal control ended 30 November 2013 is provided control through a detailed report from in the Strategic Report set out from the the risk management and internal senior management which sets out the inside front cover of this Report to page control system includes comprehensive Groups control environment, the manner 55. the responsibilities of the directors in monthly reporting to the board on all in which key business risks are identified, respect of the preparation of the Annual activities through detailed portfolio the adequacy of information systems Report are set out on page 102 and the analysis, property development progress and control procedures and the manner Auditors Report on pages 103 to 105 reviews, management accounts in which any required corrective action is includes a statement by deloitte about and a comparison of committed to be taken.
As set out expenditure against available facilities.
the work of the internal audit function on page 101, the directors are of the detailed annual budgets are reviewed is focused on the controls that mitigate opinion that the Company is a going by the board and revised forecasts the principal risks faced by the Group.
the board considers that the for the year are prepared on a regular Key internal controls are reviewed by Annual Report and Financial Statements basis, including explanations for internal audit as part of the annual audit 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced any variances between actual and plan and findings are reported to and and understandable and provides the budgeted performance.
there are considered by the Audit Committee.
information necessary for shareholders clearly defined procedures for the to assess the Companys performance, authorisation of capital expenditure, both the board and the Audit Committee business model and strategy.
purchases and sales of development review and approve the Group Risk and investment properties, construction Register, which is maintained by Risk management and internal control activity, contracts and commitments, executive management, on an annual the board is ultimately responsible for together with a formal schedule of basis.
A summary of the principal risks maintaining sound risk management and matters, including major investment which could have a material impact on internal control systems.
its policy is to and development decisions and the Group is given on pages 46 to 49. have systems in place which optimise strategic matters, that are reserved for the Companys ability to manage risk the board has reviewed the board approval.
Formal policies and in an effective and appropriate manner.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of procedures are in place covering all these systems also include financial internal control and risk management elements of anti-bribery and corruption, controls, controls in respect of the during the period covered by this Annual fraud prevention, whistleblowing, health financial reporting process and controls Report.
it confirms that the processes and safety, employment and it.
of an operational and compliance described above, which accord with the nature.
the boards approach to risk guidance on internal control the revised 66 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 turnbull Guidance, have been in place As part of the programme, presentations CoMPliANCE StAtEMENt throughout that period and up to the on the half year and annual results this corporate governance statement, date of approval of this report.
the board are given in face to face meetings together with the Audit Committee also confirms that no significant failings and conference calls with institutional Report, the Nomination Committee or weaknesses have been identified.
investors, analysts and the media.
Report and the directors Remuneration Copies of these presentations, together Report, provide a description of how REMuNERAtioN with interim management statements, the main principles of the Code have are published on the Companys website the primary objective of the Companys been applied by St. Modwen in 2012 13. at www.
in 2013 the remuneration policy is to attract, the Code is published by the Financial Company held an investor day for retain and motivate high-calibre senior Reporting Council and is available on its institutional investors and analysts which executives through competitive pay website at www.
included presentations on the results arrangements which are also in the best and the bay Campus development it is the boards view that, throughout interests of shareholders.
these include th for Swansea university, together with the financial year ended 30 November performance-related elements with a tour of the New Covent Garden 2013, the Company was in compliance demanding targets in order to align the Market sites in london.
Meetings with with the relevant provisions set out in interests of directors and shareholders principal shareholders, including the the Code.
and to reward financial success Clarke and leavesley families, were appropriately.
the policy is structured With the exception of disclosures also held and the Company had regular so as to be aligned with key strategic required by Rule 7.2.
6 which are set dialogue with its key relationship banks.
priorities and to be consistent with out in the directors Report on pages the Chairman is available to meet with a board-approved level of business 98 to 102, this corporate governance institutional shareholders and investor risk.
details of the Companys policy statement contains the information representatives to discuss matters on remuneration and how this was required by Rule 7.2 of the disclosure relating to strategy and governance.
implemented for the year ended and transparency Rules of the Financial th Private shareholders are encouraged to 30 November 2013 are set out in Conduct Authority.
give feedback and communicate with the thedirectors Remuneration Report board through the Company Secretary.
Annual General Meeting RElAtioNS With ShAREholdERS the AGM provides an opportunity for all Dialogue with investors shareholders to vote on the resolutions the board has a comprehensive proposed and to question the board investor relations programme which and the Chairs of the board Committees aims to provide existing and potential on matters put to the meeting.
investors with a means of developing it is proposed that resolutions for their understanding of St. Modwen.
consideration at the 2014 AGM be voted the programme is split between on by way of a poll rather than by a show institutional shareholders which make of hands as the board believes that this up the majority of shareholders, private is a more transparent method of voting shareholders and debt investors.
as it allows the votes of all shareholders Feedback is provided to the board to be counted, including those cast by to ensure that directors develop an proxy.
the results of the poll vote will be understanding of the Companys published on the Companys website, major investors.
the notice of meeting for the 2014 AGM can be found on pages 155 to 164.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67
