Berendsen plc Report and 62 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
We continue to strengthen our governance framework through regular reviews and stakeholder engagement.
Our group intranet Berendsen Universe Role of the board Compliance with the UK provides a platform for employees Corporate Governance Code The key responsibilities of the board to be kept fully informed of the latest are to set strategy, monitor what The revised UK Corporate Governance group news as well as to disseminate management are doing, hold them Code 2012 the Code became best practice and developments around accountable for performance against applicable to Berendsen with effect key policies.
Vision and Values success agreed targets and to provide from 1 January 2013.
We are pleased stories are posted to highlight and appropriate challenge to ensure to confirm that, for the year under celebrate noteworthy achievements that management remains focused review, the company has complied and examples of good governance on achieving our strategic aims and fully with the principles and provisions throughout the group.
objectives for delivering value to of the Code.
Further disclosure about A monthly corporate newsletter is shareholders and other stakeholders.
how we have applied the Code can be available to employees and focuses on The board sets the parameters by found in the remuneration report on core themes such as growth, governance which the group seeks to promote and page 80 and in the following corporate and leadership.
The newsletter provides deepen the interests of its shareholders governance statement which has been case study information on different and monitors the performance of structured around the five sections of areas of the business including key the executives to whom it delegates the Code: Leadership, Effectiveness, projects, achievements and personal the management of the business.
Accountability, Remuneration and success stories.
Although not involved in day-to-day Relations with Shareholders.
management activities, the board does Further information on the Code can have a formal schedule of matters be found on the Financial Reporting reserved to it.
These matters, which were Councils website at www.
last reviewed in December 2013, include: Leadership Our governance framework The board is responsible for setting andmonitoring the groups governance framework.
Implementation of Strategy governance throughout the group and direction is theresponsibility of the Executive Read more: Board.
Regular updates are provided Pages 6-13 to the board and its committees by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The board regularly Executive Governance meets management to establish how Board and risk People, vision thebusiness is progressing and to ensure Read more: and values that the governance framework is fully Pages 36-43, Read more: Board of embedded within the group.
62-79 Pages 44-49 Directors Governance throughout the group is rooted in the Berendsen culture and is communicated through its Vision and Values.
Further information on our Vision and Values can be found on page 47.
Governance is supported by Performance Shareholder a number of key policies including: the monitoring engagement Matters Reserved for the Board, Risk Read more: Read more: Management Guidelines, the groups Pages 14-17 Page 70 Ethics Policy, the groups Finance Manual and group corporate responsibility and health and safety policies.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 63 Always moving forward Effective board The board has a three-year cycle for the annual performance evaluation of the directors, board and its committees.
This year the Senior Independent Director, David Lowden, conducted the evaluation which included meeting with all board members individually.
David presented his initial findings to the board at the 11 December meeting.
The board agreed a number of actions arising from this review which will be addressed in 2014.
Our second external board evaluation will be conducted inthe last quarter of 2014.
The board is satisfied that each director appointed by the board during the k Group strategy, business objectives, has attained a level of experience that year will also stand for appointment by long-range plans and annual budgets: taken together provides a suitable shareholders at the following Annual k Annual and interim results and interim breadth of strategic and financial General Meeting.
All directors have significant international backgrounds.
Division of responsibilities k Material acquisitions, disposals and contracts: The non-executive directors also have Chairman and Chief Executive Officer industry experience from a wide range The roles of the Chairman and the Chief k Major changes to the groups internal of backgrounds including finance, Executive Officer are separately held controls or to its risk management or FMCG, logistics, telecommunications and the division of their responsibilities financial reporting policies and and business services.
All of the directors is clearly established, set out in writing procedures: have held senior executive positions and regularly reviewed by the board.
k Determining the nature and extent of within listed companies.
In respect of Between board meetings there is regular the risks the group is willing to accept the executive directors, Peter Ventress interaction, discussion and collaboration to achieve its strategic objectives: is an experienced leader having been between the Chief Executive Officer k Major changes to the groups capital, for many years an international Chief andthe Chairman and, where required, corporate or management structure: Executive Officer and Kevin Quinn has with other board members.
and been Chief Financial Officer of the group for over eight years.
Further biographical Chairman k Succession planning for the board and information can be found on pages 60 senior management.
k Responsible for the leadership of the and 61. board, ensuring its effectiveness by Matters which are outside the scope of creating and managing a constructive the reserved matters are decided by the Appointments to the board relationship between the executive executive management.
The nomination committee assisted and non-executive directors: where appropriate by external search Board composition k Promotes a culture of challenge, consultants ensures that there is debate, openness and support, During 2013, the board comprised the a formal, rigorous and transparent ensuring that there is adequate time Chairman, two executive directors procedure for the appointment of available for discussion: the Chief Executive Officer and the new directors.
All appointments are Chief Financial Officer and three k Ensures there is ongoing and effective preceded by a detailed evaluation of independent non-executive directors: communication between the board the current composition of the board David Lowden, Andrew Wood and Lucy and its key shareholders: taking into account the balance of skills, Dimes.
With effect from 25 April 2013, experience, knowledge and diversity k Responsible for ensuring the board Per Utnegaard stepped down as a nonincluding gender.
The committee then receives accurate and clear executive director.
On 1 March 2014, we prepares a candidate specification for information in a timely manner in will welcome Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to the approval by the board.
Further details advance of board meetings: and board as an independent non-executive on the recruitment process and the k Responsible for ensuring that all director.
Following Maarits appointment, work undertaken by the committee non-executive directors receive four of the seven board members will be during 2013 are detailed on page ongoing training and development so independent non-executive directors.
Our remuneration policy for new that they can appropriately perform directors is outlined on page 87.
The composition of the board is their duties.
reviewed annually to ensure that there is Under the companys Articles of an effective balance of skills, experience Association, all directors are subject and knowledge.
to re-election to the board every three years.
However, the board has decided, in accordance with the Code, that all directors wishing to continue will retire and offer themselves for annual re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Any director Berendsen plc Report and 64 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director The Executive Board David Lowden, our Senior Independent The Executive Board sits at the apex k Responsible for leading and managing Director, plays an important role on the of management decision-making.
It is the business within the authorities board.
He is an experienced and trusted chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, delegated by the board: sounding board for the Chairman and Peter Ventress.
The other members k Develops the groups objectives Chief Executive Officer and meets them are: the Chief Financial Officer, Kevin andstrategy and, following board regularly to discuss key issues whilst, Quinn: the three business line Managing approval, the successful execution if necessary, also acting as a conduit Directors, Christian Ellegaard, Peter ofstrategy: between the Chairman, the nonHavus and Steve Finch: Chris Thrush the executive directors and shareholders.
Group Director, Human Resources: and k Ensures that a sound system David additionally assists with the annual the Company Secretary, David Lawler.
ofinternal controls is in place: evaluation of the Chairman alongside the In addition to regular communications k Manages the groups risk profile, Chief Executive Officer, Peter Ventress.
between its members, the Executive including the maintenance of Board formally met 11 times during 2013.
David strengthens his understanding of appropriate health, safety and our major shareholders key interests by The members of the Executive Board environmental policies: receiving reports from the companys have collective responsibility for the k Responsible for the effective and brokers on investor relations and, where day-to-day running of the groups ongoing communication with appropriate, shareholder meetings.
business and their functions including: shareholders: and David is highly suited to the role of k Developing the groups strategy and Senior Independent Director through his k Ensures that the board is fully budget for board approval: extensive knowledge of the Berendsen informed of all key matters.
k Monitoring the financial, operational group combined with his wealth of commercial experience as a previous and service performance of the group Non-executive directors and reviewing the group risk register: Chief Executive of Taylor Nelson Sofres The non-executive directors provide plc in addition to being a non-executive a valuable breadth of experience and k Allocating resources across the director of William Hill PLC and Michael independent judgement to board groupwithin parameters agreed Page International plc which provides discussions.
The board considers bythe board: key insights into the requirements of that during 2013, the non-executive k Planning and initiating major both institutional and private investors.
directors were integral to providing a cross-business programmes: and solid foundation for good corporate governance for the group, ensuring that k Developing leadership and future no individual or group of individuals talent programmes and securing dominated the boards decision-making strong succession planning for and that this will continue in 2014. thegroup.
Details of the non-executive directors are set out on page 61 and the board considers that their biographies reflect suitable breadth and depth of strategic, management and international experience.
The Executive Board Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn David Lawler Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary See biography: See biography: See biography: Page 60 Page 61 Page 61 Christian Ellegaard Steve Finch Peter Havus Chris Thrush Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Director, Facility UK Flat Linen Workwear Human Resources Christian joined the group in 1993 Steve joined the group in 1996 Peter joined the group in 1985 Chris was appointed Group Director, and was appointed Managing through the acquisition of Spring and was appointed Managing Human Resources in May 2011.
Director of the Nordic Region Grove Services where he held the Director for the Continent region He has previously held HR Director in 2007, having held a number position of Commercial Director and in 2007.
He has held a number of roles with Corporate Express N. V. of senior posts, including was appointed Managing Director senior posts, including Managing DePuy a Johnson and Johnson Managing Director in Denmark.
of the Sunlight Service Group in Director Sweden, Managing Director company, Gestetner and the Christian holds a BSc in Economics 2001.
Prior to joining Spring Grove Denmark and Chief Operating University of Lancaster in the UK.
and Business Administration from in 1995, Steve spent 25 years in Officer, mainland Europe, having He has lived and worked extensively the Copenhagen Business School the telecommunications industry, started his career in the textile outside the UK in Europe, the USA and an MBA from Monterey Institute latterly as Sales Director in Hutchison rental industry in Sweden in 1983. and Asia.
He holds an MBA and is a of International Studies.
On 1 January Telecom now Orange.
Steve holds Peter holds a degree in Economics.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of 2012 he was appointed Managing an MBA from Bath University.
On 1 January 2012 he was appointed Personnel and Development.
On 1 January 2012 he was appointed Managing Director, Workwear.
Managing Director, UK Flat Linen.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 65 In addition to the Executive Boards To safeguard their independence, a Conflicts of interest collective responsibilities, members of director is not entitled to vote on any The board has put procedures in place the Executive Board have been assigned matter in which they have a material to resolve situations where a director has areas of specific responsibility including: personal interest unless the board a conflict of interest.
As part of these operations Peter Havus, procurement unanimously decides otherwise.
procedures, the board: and supply chain Steve Finch and sales Where necessary, directors are required and marketing Christian Ellegaard.
to absent themselves from a meeting k Considers each conflict situation of the board while such matters are separately based on its particular facts Board independence being discussed.
and in conjunction with all other directors duties and obligations under The board reviews non-executive To strengthen the independence of the Companies Act 2006: the non-executive directors and to director independence on an annual k Keeps records and board minutes of basis taking into account such factors enable them to discuss more freely the as their contribution to unbiased and performance of the groups executive authorisations granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: independent debate during meetings.
management, the Chairman meets formally with the non-executive directors and The board considers that in 2013 at least once each year without the k Regularly reviews conflict of interest all three non-executive directors executive directors being present.
remained independent from executive In 2013, this meeting was held on management and free from any business The board has complied with these 28 November.
or other relationship that could materially procedures during the year and each interfere with the exercise of their The independence of the directors director has confirmed there have judgement.
During 2013, Andrew Wood is further supported by the work been no conflicts of interest arising and Iain Ferguson were appointed to of the Company Secretary whose during 2013. the board of Stobart Group Limited.
appointment and removal is the The board does not believe that responsibility of the board as a whole.
these appointments will affect their The Company Secretary who is also independence or commitment to the secretary to the audit, nomination and Berendsen board.
remuneration committees ensures that board procedures are complied The independence of the non-executive with and provides advice on regulatory directors is fundamental to the boards compliance matters and corporate decision-making and discussion.
All directors have Any director who has concerns about unrestricted access to the advice and the running of the group or a proposed services of the Company Secretary.
course of action is encouraged to There is also an agreed procedure by express those concerns which are then which directors can, for the purposes minuted.
No such concerns were raised of discharging their duties, obtain during 2013. independent professional advice at the companys expense.
No director made use of this facility during 2013.
Board attendance in 2013 Executive directors Independent Board meetings Attendance Peter Ventress No 100% Kevin Quinn No 100% Non-executive directors Lucy Dimes Yes 100% Iain Ferguson No 100% David Lowden Yes 100% Per Utnegaard Yes 100% Andrew Wood Yes 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend Per Utnegaard stepped down from the board on 25 April 2013 Berendsen plc Report and 66 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement The main areas of focus for the board during 2013 were: k Received regular updates from the Chief Executive Officer about the ongoing execution of the 2010 strategy review Strategy anddirection k Received in-depth briefings from each business line management team on the implementation of strategic initiatives k Received updates from the Group Director, Human Resources on management development and succession planning inMay and September k Received presentations from the groups Tax and Treasury Director on the groups tax compliance and structure k Held separate meetings with the Chief Executive Officer to discuss key strategic issues and succession planning k Participated in briefing external consultants commissioned to support strategy development k Met the Executive Board in September to discuss the groups strategy k Received regular updates on the groups competitors and markets k Approved the groups budget for 2014 and its medium-term plan to 2016 k Reviewed analyst reports and forecasts k Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the business line Managing Directors on the key issues Performance affecting the business monitoring k Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Financial Officer on performance against budget and forecast.
For more information on our financial performance, see page 20 k Reviewed reports from the Chief Financial Officer on the financial position of the group including treasury management k Reviewed regular reports from the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees on matters discussed atcommittee meetings k Approved the full year and half year results for the group k Reviewed reports on peer group comparison of results and received regular market updates and recent competitor activityreports k Made recommendations regarding the 2012 final dividend and approved the 2013 interim dividend k Reviewed the groups return on invested capital ROIC and compared it to the groups average cost of capital WACC k Received presentations from the three business line management teams: Workwear, Facility and UK Flat Linen in May andSeptember k Reviewed reports on governance issues, including changes arising from the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Governance Code 2012 and amendments to the Companies Act 2006 regarding the Strategic report and Directors report and risk k Performed regular reviews of the significant risks affecting the group.
For more information on our risk management framework and processes, see page 36 k Reviewed and updated the Executive Committee terms of reference k Reviewed and approved the Berendsen share dealing policy k Regularly reviewed the action list from the internal board evaluation performed by Iain Ferguson in 2012 k Reviewed regular reports and key performance indicators on health and safety and corporate social responsibility issues.
For more information on our corporate responsibility and health and safety policies and procedures, see page 50 k Received internal audit reports and monitored the implementation of internal audit recommendations k Reviewed the conflicts of interest register and confirmed there were no existing conflicts k Reviewed and discussed the findings from the 2013 internal board evaluation conducted by David Lowden k Received a presentation from AuditR on the results of the 2013 risk management review and discussed the key recommendations for further enhancement of the risk management processes throughout the group.
For further information on the risk review, see page 37 k Attended meetings with the Executive Board in May and September including: People, Vision &Values Meeting the UK Flat Linen management team on 23 May 2013 Meeting the German Healthcare management team on 25 September 2013 Visiting the Basingstoke Shared Service centre and German Healthcare, Frstenwalde plant k Individual visits were made to our businesses in Copenhagen Denmark and Rainhill UK as well as attendance ataManagement Trainee dinner in London and a finance conference in Hamburg Germany k Reviewed the 2013 AGM proxy voting figures.
For more information on the 2013 and 2014 AGM visit our website: Shareholder www.
com engagement k Reviewed reports from brokers on shareholder feedback from meetings with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer k Hosted a non-executive directors dinner with institutional investors on 28 November 2013 k Made preparations in respect of the 2014 Annual General Meeting k Reviewed and agreed the role specification for the appointment of a new non-executive director Other k Approved the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts k Received and reviewed monthly shareholder analysis Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 67 Lucy Dimes has assisted in the Training and development Effectiveness development of the induction In order to ensure that our non-executive Board attendance programme for Maarit by providing directors discharge their duties to the feedback on her induction in 2012.
The board requires that all directors best extent possible, the Chairman The induction programme is delivered devote sufficient time to discharge is responsible for ensuring that all through a variety of channels and their duties effectively and to use their non-executive directors receive ongoing attempts to limit the quantity of best endeavours to attend meetings.
Training and information supplied as just reading During 2013, the board met nine times development needs were also discussed material: this is achieved through and maximum attendance was achieved at the non-executive directors meeting meetings with executives to discuss for all meetings.
The main areas of focus on 28 November 2013, and where key topics, site visits and discussions during 2013 are detailed on page 59. required, training plans were agreed.
with management and fellow nonIn addition, the non-executive directors Each non-executive director currently executive directors.
Maarit will have met without the executive directors on serving on the board has confirmed an opportunity to meet shareholders 28 November 2013. that in 2013 they have kept themselves at the 2014 AGM and will meet with properly briefed on and informed about During the year, all the directors the Senior Independent Director and current issues.
confirmed that they have been able to Chairman, in advance, to discuss any allocate sufficient time to discharge their shareholder concerns.
Directors are required to notify the Chairman and the board of any alterations to their external commitments that arise during the year with an indication of the time commitment involved.
Board meeting attendance Induction All new non-executive directors joining the Berendsen board undertake a formal and personalised induction programme.
The induction programme covers, for example: the operation and activities of the group including site visits and meeting members of the senior management teams : the groups principal risks and uncertainties: the role of the board and the decision-making matters reserved to it: the responsibilities of the board committees: and the 100% 9 5.4% 100% strategic challenges and opportunities Board meeting attendance Board meeting attendance Board meeting attendance in 2011. in 2012. in 2013. facing the group.
Following her appointment on 1 March Information flow at board meetings 2014, Maarit Aarni-Sirvi will begin her induction programme in the second quarter of 2014.
Following a discussion with Maarit, the Chairman alongside the Company Secretary will draw up Chairman acomprehensive induction programme agrees the focusing on current strengths and meeting agenda required focus areas.
Board papers are circulated Key actions achieved in advance of meetings My induction was very  a good degreeof breadth and depth of insight into the company operations, and the opportunity to meet a wide variety of people in the business in a relatively short period of time.
Action list Board This was invaluable during the early prepared meeting stages of joining the board.
and monitored six times Lucy Dimes regularly annually Non-executive director Berendsen plc Report and 68 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement During 2013, all of our UK-based actions are completed as agreed by the In 2013 the board met with the non-executive directors joined and board.
Briefing packs are also circulated management teams of the UK Hotels were active members of the Deloitte at times when board meetings are not and German Healthcare businesses to Academy, which provides regular scheduled.
These briefing packs ensure review and discuss their business line updates on key financial and business that the non-executive directors are kept strategies.
This involved meetings in May issues.
The board regularly receives informed of the latest issues affecting and September and included site visits reports from the Company Secretary the group.
The board uses an electronic to Basingstoke UK and Frstenwalde on current or pressing legal, regulatory board paper system so that directors west of Berlin, Germany.
and governance issues and any key or can access all board papers and briefing These comprehensive visits gave upcoming changes.
A number of board packs quickly and securely.
board members detailed insights briefing sessions were also held where This system also provides online and into the operations of our businesses, external advisers provided updates offline access to a Resource Centre their challenges and opportunities.
on remuneration reporting guidelines, which contains comprehensive reference These visits and subsequently agreed accounting and auditing standards and materials such as board governance follow-up actions demonstrate the free an economist gave his thoughts about documents, competitor profiles, group flow of information and communication the economic outlook in 2014 and 2015. policies and previous board papers.
between the board and the senior management teams within the Information flow at board meetings The Chief Executive Officer and the group.
In 2014 the board will meet Chief Financial Officer ensure that the Formal board meetings are held six the management teams from our UK board is kept fully aware on a timely times each year.
Prior to each board Manage for Value businesses and the basis of business issues and prospects meeting the directors receive an agenda Swedish Facility businesses.
Both are item with supporting papers to ensure members of the Executive Board and In consultation with the Chairman and that they have all the latest relevant are directors of Berendsen UK Limited, Chief Executive Officer, the Company information.
Included in these papers the holding company of our UK trading Secretary manages the provision of are detailed monthly accounts together businesses, and of Berendsen A S, the information to the board for their formal with reports from the Chief Executive management company of our European board meetings and at other appropriate Officer, Chief Financial Officer and businesses.
In addition, during 2013 they times.
The Chairman and Chief Executive the business line Managing Directors.
periodically attended individual business Officer also maintain regular informal The quality of the papers and reports line board meetings, meeting the contact with all directors.
supplied on a monthly basis were management teams of each operation.
commended by directors during the The key issues raised at these meetings Performance evaluation 2013 board evaluation and it was noted were then brought to the attention that the quality of information had been A comprehensive evaluation of ofthe board.
consistently improving and provided the performance of the board, its sufficient depth for board debates.
committees and each of its directors iscarried out annually, a process led by After each board meeting, the Company the Chairman and supported by the Secretary operates a comprehensive Company Secretary.
follow-up procedure to ensure that The board has implemented a threeyear cycle for the annual performance evaluation with an externally facilitated evaluation occurring at least triennially.
The Berendsen three-year approach The last external evaluation was conducted in 2011 by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review who provides no other service to the company.
The board found the review provided invaluable insight and helped to Year 3 Year 1 establish a benchmark for measuring Internal board External board future progress.
evaluation evaluation led by the Senior Independent Director Year 2 Internal board evaluation led by the Chairman Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 69 In accordance with the three-year cycle The full results of the board evaluation The board considers that the information of evaluation, Iain Ferguson Chairman were discussed at the board meeting on that it receives is sufficient to enable it to of the board, conducted the internal 11 December 2013.
The board concluded review the effectiveness of the groups evaluation in 2012, followed by David that the board and its committees internal controls in accordance with the Lowden the Senior Independent operate effectively and that each internal control guidance for directors Director in 2013.
The internal evaluations director was contributing to the overall issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
were based on the themes arising effectiveness and success of the group.
In March 2013, an external independent from the 2011 external evaluation and Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, review of the groups risk management recommendations from the 2012 internal the board identified a number of areas systems was performed.
The board has agreed that that could be improved during 2014. discussed by the board on 25 April 2013. the next external evaluation will occur Further information on this review can be inthe last quarter of 2014. found on page 37 of the Risk report.
Accountability David Lowden met each director and the Financial and business reporting Company Secretary individually during Financial reporting November and December 2013.
On pages 6 and 7 we provide an In addition to the general internal explanation of the basis on which Among other things the review controls and risk management the group generates value over the investigated a variety of aspects processes, the group also has specific long-term and how we intend to deliver associated with board effectiveness, internal controls and risk management on our strategic objectives.
specifically: systems to govern the financial reporting process and preparation k The way in which the board defines its Risk management and internal control of the annual financial statements.
role and approaches its work strategy, These systems include clear policies and Pages 36 to 43 outline how the board risk and control, performance procedures for ensuring that the groups oversees risk management and management and communication : financial reporting processes and the internal control.
k The balance of skills, diversity and preparation of its consolidated accounts experience: comply with all relevant regulatory Annual assessment reporting requirements.
These are of the effectiveness of internal k Knowledge about the group: and comprehensively detailed in the group control systems k The way in which the board works Finance Manual, which is used by the The board and audit committee together culture and dynamics, and businesses in the preparation of their requested, received and reviewed optimises its use of time and its results.
Financial control requirements reports from senior management, its contribution to the company.
are also set out in the Group Finance advisers, group internal audit and our Manual Minimum Control Framework.
In addition, a review of the Chairmans external auditors to help with their Management representations covering performance is led by David Lowden, annual assessment of the effectiveness compliance with relevant policies and the Senior Independent Director, who of the groups internal control systems.
the accuracy of financial information are has confidential discussions with the collated on a biannual basis.
Through the ongoing processes non-executive directors whilst taking into outlined on pages 37 and 38, areas for account the views of executive directors.
Detailed accounts for each reporting improvement of internal controls are The executive directors are evaluated entity are prepared monthly, comprising continuously identified and action plans by reference to their executive duties an income statement, cash flow devised.
Progress towards completion through a separate process whereby statement and balance sheet in a of actions is regularly monitored by the Chairman and the non-executive manner very similar to the year end management and the board.
The board directors assess the Chief Executive and half yearly reporting processes.
considers that none of the areas for Officer and the Chief Executive Officer These are subject to management improvement identified constitute a assesses the Chief Financial Officer and review and analysis in the financial review significant failing or weakness.
other members of the Executive Board.
Further information on how the board Anti-bribery and corruption has addressed the key focus areas arising from the 2012 performance review can All businesses within the group are be found within the Chairmans address tasked with adopting a risk-based on page 58.
For 2014, the board has set approach to managing any potential itself a number of key focus areas which issues relating to bribery and corruption.
Risk assessments are required to be completed at least annually, or upon any significant changes to the business.
The audit committee is regularly updated on compliance.
Berendsen plc Report and 70 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement Whistleblowing Investor relation activities in 2013 The group has established a Key Financial Reporting Dates Presentations whistleblowing procedure through January which staff can raise concerns about February Annual Results Webcast & analyst presentation possible financial reporting wrongdoing March and other matters.
During 2013, the April AGM, IMS Conference call procedure was operated in 27 languages and 16 countries with group systems in May place to ensure that any concerns were June Wakefield & Rainhill site visit addressed confidentially, promptly and July thoroughly.
The Company Secretary August Interim results Webcast & analyst presentation is required to report to the audit September committee biannually February and October IMS Conference call August about any new incidents as well as to provide updates on the integrity November of the whistleblowing procedures and December Trading update the state of any ongoing investigations and the conclusions reached.
Meetings by country Meetings by month During 2013, group employees used the procedure to raise concerns on seven separate issues, all of which were 4 9 3 8 reported to the audit committee and 1 responded to appropriately 2012: nine 7 separate issues.
2 2 Remuneration 3 1 Details of the directors remuneration 6 4 5 can be found on pages 80 to 99.
This sets out the remuneration strategy 1 U K 102 1 March 42 for all directors both executive and non-executive, the key elements of 2 USA and Canada 25 2 April 1 remuneration and how the remuneration 3 Rest of Europe 19 3 May 8 committee ensures that executive 4 Rest of world 2 4 June 17 director pay is focused on delivering the 5 August 3 groups strategic plans and priorities.
6 September 35 7 October 28 Relations with shareholders 8 November 3 9 December 11 Shareholder engagement 99.9% Shareholders play an important and % of shareholders voted in favour valuable role in safeguarding the of our 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
groups governance policies through, for example, the election of directors, monitoring and rewarding their All the directors at the time of the 2013 The company is committed to increasing performance through engagement and Annual General Meeting attended shareholder value and communicates constructive dialogue with the board.
that meeting and it is expected that all its achievements and prospects to The Chairman is responsible for ensuring board members will attend the Annual shareholders in an accurate and timely that there is ongoing and effective General Meeting on 24 April 2014 and manner.
Apart from the Annual General communication with shareholders be available to meet shareholders.
Meeting, the company communicates and that all directors are made aware This provides an excellent opportunity, with shareholders by way of the Annual of any major shareholders issues or particularly for our private shareholders, Report and Accounts, interim results concerns.
On 28 November 2013, the to meet board members and discuss any announcement in August and interim Chairman hosted a dinner where major areas of concern with them.
management statements in April shareholders had the opportunity to and October.
To facilitate easier voting for those meet and raise issues directly with the shareholders who hold their shares in The Chief Executive Officer and Chief non-executive directors without the certificated form, we have put in place Financial Officer host presentations executives being present.
This was systems to allow voting to be conducted to research analysts and institutional attended by nine major shareholders electronically through our Registrars investors following the release of the representing approximately 36% of the website www.
interim management statements IMS, groups issued share capital.
which include a question and answer session.
These presentations are broadcast live from our website.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 71 Significant matters relating to the trading During 2013, 148 separate meetings Board committees or development of the business are and conference calls were held with disseminated to the market by way of existing and potential shareholders.
The three principal committees Stock Exchange announcements which These meetings were attended by of the board are the nomination also appear on the companys website either the Chief Executive Officer or the committee, the audit committee www.
Chief Financial Officer or sometimes andthe remuneration committee.
These focused primarily on the The website contains a dedicated These committees have been groups trading operations and the investor section for our shareholders implementation of the groups strategy.
established to assist in the effective to access our Annual Reports and operation of the board.
A summary of Accounts, results presentations, share Where significant views were expressed, the role of each committee is set out either during or following the meeting price information, and financial and below.
The terms of reference of each dividend calendars.
The website also via our brokers, these were recorded committee are available on our website.
contains a direct link to Shareview, an online service provided by our registrars, Nomination committee Annual General Meeting allowing shareholders to view and manage their shareholding online.
k Reviews the structure, size and The Annual General Meeting takes place composition of the board: If shareholders have any concerns, which in London.
The 2014 meeting will be held k Leads the recruitment process and the normal channels of communication on 24 April at the Royal Aeronautical makes recommendations for new to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London, W1J appointments to the board and Financial Officer or the Chairman have 7BQ.
Formal notification will be sent to itscommittees: and failed to resolve or for which contact shareholders approximately five weeks is inappropriate, then the Senior in advance and in any event at least 21 k Monitors succession and Independent Director is available to days before the meeting.
Other general development planning for the board address them.
To that end, both the meetings may also be convened from of directors and the Executive Board.
Chairman and the Senior Independent time to time on at least 21 days notice Director make themselves available, or where certain requirements are met, Audit committee when requested, for meetings with including prior approval by shareholders, k Monitors the financial and internal shareholders on issues relating to the by way of special resolution, on 14 days reporting processes including the groups governance and strategy.
The Annual General Meeting integrity and clarity of the financial During the year, the Chairman of the gives shareholders an opportunity to statements: board and the committee chairmen hear about the general development received regular guidance and letters of the business and to ask questions k Reviews the system of internal from shareholders, which were then of the Chairman and, through him, controls and the identification and reviewed by the board and committees thechairmen of the various committees management of risks: at their respective next meeting.
as well as committee members.
k Monitors the internal audit processes: The groups shareholders are mainly Details of the meeting and the k Conducts an annual review of the institutional investors, holding 98% of resolutions to be proposed together external auditor independence our issued share capital.
Our shareholder with explanatory notes are set out andquality of work: engagement strategy is therefore in the shareholder Notice of Meeting predominantly focused on these and are available on our website k Recommends the appointment investors.
The Chief Executive Officer to download from Friday 14 March ofexternal auditors and their and Chief Financial Officer offer www.
remuneration: and meetings, through our brokers, to a wide k Develop and implement policy on Any shareholder attending the Annual range of institutional investors with the the engagement of the external General Meeting has the right to ask objective of meeting major shareholders auditors to supply non-audit services.
Any question relating to at least twice each year.
the business will be dealt with at the Remuneration committee meeting, unless, for example, it is undesirable to do so, whether in the k Reviews and recommends to interests of the company such as the theboard the overall executive disclosure of confidential information remuneration policy: or for the good order of the meeting.
k Recommends appropriate fees Shareholders attending the meeting are forthe Chairman: informed of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
k Reviews the terms of service and remuneration of the executive directors and other members oftheExecutive Board: and k Sets levels of remuneration that areappropriate for recruiting and retaining talented executives with theright experience and skills.
Berendsen plc Report and 72 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement Committee membership Function Nomination committee report Iain Ferguson The committee met three times during The committee is responsible for Chairman 2013 April, September and December regularly reviewing the composition and received two presentations from the of the board, taking into account Group Director, Human Resources May the benefits of diversity and the and September.
As at 31 December breadth of experience and skills 2013, four of the five members of required.
The committee also makes the committee were considered by recommendations with regard to any the board to be independent.
At the changes to board and senior executive request of the committee chairman, succession planning and provides other individuals and external advisers recommendations to the board as to We have focused on the recruitment may be invited to attend all or part of the appointment and reappointment of a new independent NED thereby any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The terms of reference ensuring that the board continues The Chief Executive Officers role on of the committee were reviewed and to have the right balance of skills, the committee is to provide a better approved by the board in December experience and diversity.
understanding of the strategic issues 2013 and are available on the companys facing the company and the current skills website or upon request from the 2013 Key achievements and experience of the Executive Board.
k Ensured further development of the Following Per Utnegaard stepping down management succession and development from the board on 25 April 2013, the Induction and experience plans for the Executive Board and senior committee led the process of recruiting executives: Upon appointment to the committee, Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to the board.
k Monitored the diversity of employees non-executive directors are provided throughout the group: with details about the current k Reviewed external search consultants and composition of the board, the companys Board composition appointed Ridgeway Partners following succession planning procedures and atender process: and At Berendsen each new board how the board and committees annual appointment must complement the rest k The recruitment of a new non-executive performance reviews are conducted.
of the board in terms of independence, Induction to the committee includes skills, knowledge and experience and detailed discussions with the Chairman Members in 2013 therefore we will always appoint on and Chief Executive Officer in order merit, as judged against objective Iain Ferguson Chairman to understand the issues at board and criteria taking into account diversity Lucy Dimes Executive Board level.
The committee regularly David Lowden The board requires the nomination reviews the composition of the board Per Utnegaard to 25 April 2013 committee members to have an to ensure it has the right balance of understanding of: perspectives, skills and experience Peter Ventress to function effectively.
For further Andrew Wood k The strategic issues and commercial information on the composition of the changes affecting the company and Management attendees by invitation board, see page 63 of the corporate the market in which it operates and governance statement.
Areas of focus in 2014 how they affect succession planning and board composition: k Reviewing the groups first Employee Satisfaction Survey: Diversity k The leadership needs of the k Continuing to focus on succession planning organisation, both executive and The board strongly supports the need and talent management development: and non-executive, with a view to ensuring for diversity and inclusion at all levels of k Overseeing the successful induction of the continued ability of the group to our business and has made this a major Maarit Aarni-Sirvi onto the board and compete effectively: objective of our talent management committees.
Our Gender Diversity k The importance and benefits of Policy ensures that each time a member diversity including gender : and of senior management or a director is k The requirements under the Code and recruited at Berendsen at least one of best practice guidance on effective the shortlisted candidates is female.
Further information on our companywide diversity policy can be found on page 48.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 73 Gender diversity awareness has been Taking into account these requirements, Recruitment process a key focus area throughout the a detailed candidate specification year with various presentations and Following Per Utnegaards decision to was prepared by the committee step down from the board on 25 April initiatives occurring across the group.
and approved by the board.
The committee is pleased with the level 2013, the committee led the selection Ridgeway Partners conducted an initial and appointment process for a new of awareness across the business and search and provided a shortlist for the strongly supports all diversity initiatives independent non-executive director.
committees review, which included The committees first task was to review including the Women in Berendsen three female and two male candidates.
network further details can be found the appointed external search consultants.
Initial interviews were carried out by Iain Following the tender process, Ridgeway onpage 48.
Ferguson Chairman of the board and Partners were appointed to assist in the Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer.
The board has decided that the search for a new non-executive director.
Further meetings were then conducted minimum target for board gender Ridgeway Partners are signatories to the with the remaining committee members.
voluntary code of conduct on gender A thorough due diligence and formal It is pleasing to note that following the diversity for external search consultants.
referencing procedure was undertaken During 2013, Ridgeway Partners provided appointment of Maarit, the composition to ensure that the proposed appointee, of the board exceeds this target.
no other services to the company.
Maarit Aarni-Sirvi, was fully able to The diagram below shows how the The committee conducted a commit to the role and could provide board has progressed towards and comprehensive review of the skills, the required time to carry out her duties.
experience and diversity of the board Details of Maarits other commitments Although gender diversity is a key area and concluded that candidates should are detailed on page 61.
The committee of focus throughout the group, the have operated within a complex also satisfied itself that Maarit fully met the board considers all diversity issues in multinational business with significant independence criteria set out in the Code the broadest sense including, but not senior management experience obtained and understood her duty to disclose limited to, nationality and ethnicity.
The committee any potential conflicts both before As a multinational business, it is crucial considered the time commitment of a and after her appointment as a nonthat the board considers all diversity non-executive director to be up to 25 executive director.
practices that could affect its efficiency days per annum including attendance The committee recommended Maarit and leadership.
at ten meetings two of which may for the position of non-executive director be outside of the UK, recognising at the 26 February 2014 board meeting.
the need for availability in the event For further information on Letters ofexceptional circumstances.
of Appointment for non-executive directors, see page 86 of the Directors Board gender diversity remuneration report.
2014 The main areas of focus for the committee during 2013 were: 29% Succession The committee received presentations in May and September from Chris planning: Thrush, Group Director, Human Resources.
The presentations provided details of the succession planning and development programmes throughout the group for senior management.
The committee was satisfied that adequate succession planning was in place for the Executive Board and senior executives.
Diversity: The committee received presentations on the diversity programmes and initiatives throughout the group.
The committee also reviewed the composition of the board and set measurable long-term objectives on gender diversity.
2013 Recruitment of The committee conducted a review of several search consultants search consultants: before appointing Ridgeway Partners to assist with the search for a new 14% independent non-executive director.
Recruitment of Following Per Utnegaard stepping down from the board on 25 April 2013, Maarit to the board: the committee led the process of recruiting Maarit Aarni-Sirvi to the board.
Committee attendance in 2013 Committee members Independent Committee meetings Attendance Iain Ferguson No 100% 2012 Lucy Dimes Yes 100% 0% David Lowden Yes 100% Per Utnegaard Yes 100% Andrew Wood Yes 100% Peter Ventress No 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend Per Utnegaard stepped down from the board on 25 April 2013 Berendsen plc Report and 74 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement The committee received regular updates Dear Shareholder Audit committee report on the work of the internal auditors.
Andrew Wood I would like to give you an overview The primary focus of the Internal Audit Chairman of the operation and scope of the Programme for 2013 was to ensure committee and report on our work there was an appropriate framework overthe past year.
of governance and controls in place for the implementation of the group The committee currently comprises strategic plan together with providing three independent non-executive comprehensive assurance around core directors.
It met three times during the controls.
The committee was satisfied year and details of its activities can be with the work of the internal auditors, found on page 75 of this report.
who conducted 40 reviews throughout During 2013 the audit The committee has a vital role in the year.
The committee has a rigorous committee commissioned an providing assurance that the financial follow-up procedure to ensure that independent review of our risk statements provide a true and fair view all of the recommendations made management systems.
of the groups financial affairs.
As part byInternal Audit are implemented of this assurance, the committee inatimely manner.
2013 Key achievements conducts a review of any significant The group has a strong culture of financial judgements made during the k Reviewed the significant financial transparency and comprehensive risk judgements made during the year: year and any key financial reporting management systems.
During 2013, it considered the k Commissioned an independent risk further strengthen these processes, potential for fraud in revenue recognition management review and agreed a risk management plan for 2013 and 2014 anexternal risk management review was and management override of controls.
incorporating initiatives for improvement: conducted during 2013.
The committee In addition it considered three key drew some satisfaction from the k At the request of the board, conducted a reporting judgements: review of the 2013 Annual Report and after conclusions that Berendsen are within careful consideration the committee was k Goodwill impairment: the top quartile for risk management satisfied that it was fair, balanced and in comparison with other companies k The adequacy of a provision for capable of being understood by of our size.
However, improvements shareholders: and Onerous Government Contracts can be made and the committee has IHSS : and k Conducted a review of the external auditors ensured, alongside the Group Risk work throughout the year and made a final k A potential exposure to an recommendation to the board to reappoint Manager, that recommendations from environmental liability in Sweden  LLP for the year this review are implemented into the risk ending 31 December 2014. andHolland.
The committee concluded that it was Further information on this review can Members in 2013 comfortable with the judgements being befound on page 37 of the Risk report.
Andrew Wood Chairman made on all of these issues.
More details Following a review of the external Lucy Dimes can be found on page 79 of this report.
auditors independence and David Lowden During 2013, the board asked the effectiveness, the committee has made Per Utnegaard to 25 April 2013 committee to conduct a review of a recommendation to the board that the Annual Report to ensure it was the external auditors are reappointed Management attendees by invitation fair, balanced and capable of being for the year ending 31 December 2014. understood by shareholders and Further information on this review and Areas of focus in 2014 that it contained all the necessary our policy on non-audit fees can be k Reviewing the significant judgements information to allow shareholders found on page 77 of this report.
applied in the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: to assess Berendsens performance, I am pleased to welcome Maarit business model and strategy.
k Ensuring that the key risks identified Aarni-Sirvi who will be joining the bytheboard are effectively managed: Following itscomprehensive review, committee from 1 March 2014 following the committee concluded that the k Reviewing the independence and Per Utnegaards decision to step down Annual Report was fair, balanced and effectiveness of the external auditors: and on25 April 2013. capable of being understood.
For further k Ensuring that there is a comprehensive information on this review, please see If you would like to discuss any internal audit programme with a focus oncore financial controls.
aspect of the committees activities with me, please feel free to email me atAuditChairman@berendsen.
Andrew Wood Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 75 Committee attendance in 2013 Committee members Independent Committee meetings Attendance Lucy Dimes Yes 100% David Lowden Yes 100% Per Utnegaard Yes 100% Andrew Wood Yes 100% Per Utnegaard attended all meetings until he stepped down from the board on 25 April 2013 Committee membership Functions Activities in 2013 The committee met three times The committees principal function The diagram below shows the areas during 2013 February, August and is to enable the board to monitor thecommittee monitored and reviewed December.
All members of the the integrity of the groups financial throughout the year: committee are non-executive directors reports and to manage the boards and all are considered by the board Activities in 2013 relationship with the groups external to be independent.
Its other functions include: and external advisers may attend reviewing and monitoring the financial 6 each meeting at the request of the reporting process: the annual audit: 5 1 committee chairman.
theeffectiveness of the groups internal controls: the groups internal audit and 4 risk management systems and the Induction and experience independence of the external auditor The board considers that Andrew and the provision of non-audit services.
2 Wood has sufficient recent and relevant The committee is required to report 3 financial experience to discharge his its findings to the board, identifying duties as chairman of the committee.
any matters on which it considers that Andrew Wood is a Chartered action or improvement is needed and 1 The integrity of the financial Management Accountant and has statements and announcements 25% tomake recommendations on the steps over 15 years experience as a Group to be taken.
2 Internal audit function 25% Finance Director at two FTSE 250 listed 3 External audit 20% At least once a year, the committee companies.
Andrew is also chairman of 4 Internal control and risk meets with the external auditors and the audit committee at Air Partner plc management systems 15% the Head of Group Internal Audit and Lavendon Group plc.
5 Training and committee without executive management performance 10% The group provides an induction present.
The committee chairman also programme for new committee 6 Corporate governance and best regularly meets with the Head of Group practice 5% members and, where required, provides Internal Audit and the external auditors, ongoing training to enable all the again without any other member of committee members to carry out management being present.
The committees terms of reference were The board requires the audit committee reviewed and approved by the board in members to have an understanding of: December 2013.
They include all relevant matters required by Section 7.1.
3 of k The principles and content of, and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules developments in, financial reporting and the Code and are available on the including the applicable accounting companys website or on request from standards and statements of the Company Secretary.
recommended practice: k Key aspects of the groups operations including corporate policies, group financing and systems of internal control: k Matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: and k The role of internal and external auditing and risk management.
Berendsen plc Report and 76 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement The main areas the audit committee focused on during 2013 were: Committee meetingdate Key items k Received an update from the Chief Financial Officer k Reviewed a biannual update on the group whistleblowing 21 February 2013 onthekey accounting judgement areas for the 2012 year procedure end accounts k Reviewed the schedule of key controls which documents k Reviewed the significant issues in relation to the financial how the most significant risks facing the group are statements of goodwill impairment, provision for future managed losses on UK decontamination contracts, exceptional items k Met with the PwC Audit Partner and the Head of Group and changes in pension accounting Internal Audit without management being present k Reviewed the report from external auditors on their key k Reviewed the committees performance findings from the 2012 year end audit k Reviewed an FRC consultation paper on implementing k Reviewed the preliminary results and draft announcement Sharman recommendations on Going Concern k Received update reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager k Reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal controls, k Received an update from the Chief Financial Officer 16 August 2013 in particular in relation to safeguarding the companys on the key accounting judgement areas for the six months assets from fraud together with related disclosures made to 30 June 2013 in the Annual Report and financial statements k Reviewed a biannual update on group whistleblowing k Reviewed the significant issues in relation to the financial system statements k Received update reports from the Head of Group Internal k Reviewed the schedule of key controls which Audit and Group Risk Manager documents how the most significant risks facing the group k Approved the 2013 Risk Management Plan for 2013 are managed and2014 k Reviewed the report from external auditors on their key k Reviewed guidance on the Strategic report findings from their review of the interim announcement k Reviewed and approved the committees terms of k Reviewed the half year announcement trading update reference k Discussed the external auditors strategy, scope and fees k Reviewed the 2013 external auditors fees for 2013 k Received a PwC Training Session on reporting developments and audit reporting regulations k Agreed the 2014 programme of work for the internal k Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups 11 December 2013 auditfunction internal audit function k Received a final 2013 report from the Head of Group k Received a risk management update on the progress Internal Audit on the work undertaken and management made throughout 2013 from the Group Risk Manager responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued k Received management reviews on the current and future during the year development of the finance function under the new k Undertook an assessment of the qualifications, expertise, business line structure resources and independence of the external auditor k Reviewed the external auditors non-audit fees including the effectiveness of the audit process k Reviewed the draft audit committee report for the 2013 Annual Report k Reviewed the group delegated authorities k Received an update from the Chief Financial Officer k Reviewed a biannual update on the group whistleblowing 24 February 2014 onthekey accounting judgement areas for 2013 year system endaccounts k Reviewed the schedule of key controls which k Reviewed the significant issues in relation to the financial documents how the most significant risks facing the group statements of goodwill impairment, provision for future are managed losses on UK decontamination contracts, contingent k Met with the PwC Audit Partner and the Head of Group liabilities and the potential for fraud in revenue recognition Internal Audit without management being present and management override of controls k Reviewed the committees performance k Reviewed the report from external auditors on their key findings from the 2013 year end audit k Reviewed and confirmed the independence of the external auditors k Reviewed the preliminary results and draft announcement k Received update reports from the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group Risk Manager k Conducted a review of the 2013 Annual Report to ensure itwas fair, balanced and capable of being understood byshareholders Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 77 The last competitive audit tender was External audit Policy on non-audit services in2006, when  The committee manages the k The objective of maintaining a policy LLP was appointed by the board on relationship with the external auditor on non-audit services is to ensure the recommendation of the audit  LLP on that the provision of such services committee.
Prior to this date and from behalf of the board.
This includes does not impair the external auditors the formation of The Davis Service conducting annual evaluations of the independence or objectivity: Group Plc now Berendsen plc on external auditor and providing final 18 February 1980, the external audit was k In most instances, the individual recommendations to the board on their performed by  threshold for the pre-approval of reappointment, remuneration and other LLP previously Coopers and Lybrand anynon-audit services is 50,000: terms of engagement.
There are k The external auditor cannot be nocontractual obligations that restrict The committee, as part of its annual engaged to perform any assignment the audit committees capacity evaluation, reviews and considers the where the output is then subject to torecommend a particular firm effectiveness of the external audit their review as external auditor: forappointment as auditor.
This evaluation includes an k All services provided by the external assessment of the external auditors The committee is aware that the auditor other than the audit itself qualifications, expertise, resources European Commission, Parliament are regarded as non-audit services and independence.
The committees and Council of Ministers has reached no matter how directly related to or assessment is informed by senior agreement on draft legislation to consequential upon the audit they management providing feedback reform the audit market within the may be : and on the external audit process and EU.
A number of approvals remain any comments provided by the outstanding, however it is likely that the k The approval of the committee or Chief Financial Officer, the Head new legislation will be introduced from chairman of the committee should of Group Internal Audit and the 2014.
Under the proposals, all EU public an emergency situation occur and Company Secretary.
interest entities will be required to rotate urgent advice be needed is required their auditors every ten years.
If Member in advance of any new engagement If any issues regarding the external States choose to allow it, this period can with the external auditors to provide audit process are raised throughout be extended to 20 years if a competitive non-audit services in excess of theyearincommittee meetings, tender is performed at the ten year point.
The new legislation will also restrict the The committee has completed its Permitted non-audit services non-audit services that can be provided evaluation of the external auditors k Advice and assurance on financial by the auditor of a public interest entity: for the year ending 31 December reporting, interpretation and the restrictions will begin to apply within 2013 and is satisfied with their level of implementation of accounting two years of the legislation coming qualification, expertise and resources standards, tax and governance into force likely to be around May and remains confident that they continue regulations: 2016.
During 2014 when the legislation to be independent and capable of has been introduced, the committee conducting the external audit objectively k Advice and assurance in respect will review and agree the timing of the and professionally.
Any non-audit ofdirect and indirect tax matters nextexternal audit tender.
activities conducted by the external including tax compliance, tax auditors have been reviewed and are planning advice, tax consultancy not considered to have affected the services and employee tax services: Non-audit services auditors independence.
and The group follows a pre-approval policy Following the evaluation, feedback k Project assurance and advice.
for the provision of non-audit services by was provided by the committee the external auditor.
Other accounting chairman to the audit partner at Specifically prohibited firms were used for larger, non-audit  LLP and a non-audit services services, including taxation and formal recommendation was made to consultancy advice.
Details of k Appraisal or valuation services, the board, for approval by shareholders, services provided by the auditor and fairness opinions or that the external auditors are reappointed its associates are included innote 3 contribution-in-kind reports: and their remuneration for the 2014 audit onpage 128. is authorised.
k Broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: k Bookkeeping services related to accounting records or financial Services provided by the external auditors statements: m k Design and implementation of Audit services financial information systems: Non-audit services 1.0 k Internal audit outsourcing services: 0.9 0.9 k Legal and other services unrelated tothe audit: or k Management functions including 0.4 0.3 human resources.
0.2 2011 2012 2013 Berendsen plc Report and 78 Accounts 2013 Corporate governance statement Internal audit Risk Review of the 2013 Annual Report The group internal audit function is As part of its responsibilities for appropriately resourced with the skills monitoring internal control processes, At the request of the board, the and experience relevant to operations of the committee oversees the risk committee was asked to consider the group.
This is supported by specialist management framework by receiving whether the 2013 Annual Report was resources where required.
The Head of regular reports from the Group Risk fair, balanced and capable of being Group Internal Audit is accountable to Manager and biannually assessing the understood by shareholders.
In order to the committee and has access to the schedule of key controls to ensure that arrive at a position where the committee committee or its chairman at any time they are appropriate for managing were satisfied with the overall fairness, during the year.
The Head of Group the risks identified.
The committee is balance and clarity of the Annual Report, Internal Audit meets independently satisfied that throughout the group the following steps were taken: with the chairman of the committee there are established procedures for the k The committee received detailed throughout the year.
identification and management of risks.
briefings on the new reporting Further details of the principal risks and Assurance is provided in the key areas requirements and the key areas uncertainties facing the group and risk of risk to the business, as well as in the thatshould be considered when management processes can be found areas of core financial and IT internal performing the review: onpage 39 to 43 of the Risk report.
control, and where there are regulatory k A timetable was agreed that allowed or legal requirements.
A key focus of External independent risk sufficient time for a comprehensive internal audit activity in 2013 has been on management review review of early drafts to enable input the control and governance environment and involvement from the committee: for the continued implementation of our At the request of the committee strategic initiatives.
chairman, an external risk management k The committee took into account the external auditors review of the Annual review was conducted during 2013.
The committee receives regular Following the boards review of the key Report and Accounts and held reports on internal audit activity discussions with management to findings and recommendations, the and monitors the status of internal committee discussed and approved provide feedback: and audit recommendations.
with the Group Risk Manager the k The committee received the final draft The committee reviews annually the risk management plan for 2013 and of the Annual Report and conducted adequacy, qualifications and experience 2014.
For more information on the athorough review before reporting of the groups internal audit resources risk management review, see page 37 tothe board on its conclusions.
and the nature and scope of internal oftheRisk report.
After careful review, the committee audit activity in the context of the was satisfied that, taken as a whole, groups risk management system the Annual Report was fair, balanced assetout on page 36. and capable of being understood by shareholders.
Always moving forward to meet with management to understand the Connecting with our people issues and opportunities facing their business.
The board understands the benefit of During 2013, visits were made to our businesses meeting and engaging with management and in Hamburg Germany, Copenhagen employees throughout the group.
During 2013 Denmark and Rainhill UK as well as each member of the board has visited at least attendance at a Management Trainee dinner one of the groups operations on their own in London.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 79 Financial reporting Significant financial judgements in 2013 and significant financial Issues Judgements judgements k Goodwill impairment The committee reviewed the level of The key reporting judgements T he committee assessed the carrying headroom provided by the business value of goodwill based on the future cash flows and discount rate utilised considered by the committee and discussed with the external auditors cash flow projections of the business.
and challenged the basis of these as appropriate.
It concluded that significant during the year are provided opposite.
In addition, on page 109, we set out the headroom exists and that the application of reasonable sensitivities to the cash key areas of uncertainty which have been considered in the preparation flows would not impact the carrying value of goodwill.
k UK decontamination onerous In 2013, one of the contracts delivered contract provision a small profit and the budget for Remuneration T he committee reviewed the 2014 supported the release of committee report performance and forecasts for 1.8 million of provision for future Full details of the committees the North West London and Kent losses.
The committee reviewed the composition, role and activities are decontamination contracts to assess future loss projections on the second set out in the Annual Report Part B the appropriateness of the provision contract and confirmed that 0.5 million on pages 88 to 99.
Full details of the for future losses.
companys remuneration policy can k Contingent liabilities The claim on these warranties, which be found within the Policy Report T he committee reviewed the strength were given in a clear and unequivocal Part A on pages 82 to 87.
The Annual of the claim on the warranties received manner, was confirmed following Report Part B will be subject to an for environmental damage when it areview by the companys lawyers.
advisory vote at the 2014 AGM whilst acquired laundry sites in Sweden thePolicyReport Part A will be subject and Holland.
k Potential for fraud in revenue The committee considered its recognition and management risk processes and controls and Other information required override of controls confirmed that these risks are by the FCAs corporate T he committee considered the appropriately managed.
presumed risks of fraud in revenue governance rules recognition and management override Certain information required by the of controls as defined by auditing FCAs corporate governance rules standards and the threat to risk.
set out or referred to in this corporate governance statement is contained in the Directors report, on pages 100 to 104, under the headings: Securities carrying special rights: Restrictions on transfer of securities in the company: Amendment of Articles of Association: Appointment and replacement of directors: Powers of the directors: andSubstantial shareholdings.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 27 February 2014
