GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance in respect of leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relationships with our shareholders as identied by the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code.
This section and the Remuneration Report detail how the Company has applied the principles and provisions of the Code.
The Companys business model is explained on pages 24 to 51 of the Annual Report.
It is the Boards view that it has been fully compliant with the Code throughout the 2012 13 financial year.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
uk THE BOARD Role The Board has a collective responsibility for promoting the long term success of the Company in a safe and sustainable manner in order to create shareholder value.
The Board provides leadership and sets the Companys strategic long-term objectives.
Its duties are set out in a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for decision by the Board, which include: Overall management of the Group, its strategy and long-term objectives: Approval of corporate plans: Approval of all corporate transactions: Changes to the Groups capital structure: Approval of the Groups treasury policy: Approval of the Groups interim and annual results, dividend policy and shareholder distributions: Reviewing the Groups risks and system of internal control: Changes to the Board and other senior executive roles: Corporate Governance arrangements and the Board evaluation: and Approval of policies in key areas including Sustainability, Health & Safety and Business Ethics.
Composition and Independence At the date of this report the Board comprises twelve Directors: the Chairman, five Executive Directors and six independent Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies are set out on pages 56 and 57.
During the year, Victoria Mitchell stepped down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 5 September 2012 and Sir John Armitt succeeded Victoria Mitchell as Deputy Chairman from that date.
The Board has evolved over recent years to put in place the succession planning that all successful organisations require and the composition of the Board continues to be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained.
The Board considers that all of the current Non-executive Directors were independent throughout the year.
David Howell joined the Board in February 2004 and has now served more than nine years on the Board.
The Board considers David Howell to be independent in both character and judgement, notwithstanding his long service on the Board.
The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director Sir John Armitt have the skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Group Executive Directors do not hold any Non-executive Director appointments or commitments required to be disclosed under the Code.
Chairman and Managing Director The roles of Group Chairman and Group Managing Director are separately held and there are clear written guidelines to support the division of responsibility between them.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and shareholder meetings and for ensuring that each Director contributes to effective decision-making.
The Group Managing Director has day-to-day executive responsibility for the running of the Groups businesses.
His role is to develop and deliver the strategy to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
Meetings The Board met six times during 2012 13 and there were no absences, other than Sean Ellis was unable to attend the meeting on 13 June 2012 and Alan Coppin was unable to attend the meetings on 13 June 2012 and 10 October 2012.
In addition to the above formal meetings of the whole Board, the Non-executive Directors meet with the Group Chairman.
The Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director are invited to attend these meetings in part, to provide an update on the business activities of the Group.
The Non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the Group Chairman present, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Board papers and agendas are sent out in the week prior to each meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
In addition, the Board is supplied with comprehensive management information on a regular basis.
Election and re-election of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company include the requirement for Directors to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election every three years.
In addition, all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors offered themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 2 September 2013, other than Alan Coppin, who is standing down from the Board.
78 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 78 22 07 2013 17:00 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE Induction and Development On appointment, Non-executive Directors are provided with a detailed induction programme.
This covers an overview of the Groups operations and its policies, corporate responsibility and corporate affairs issues, legal matters, and the opportunity to meet with Directors and key staff and to visit the Groups sites.
No training needs were identied this year, although ongoing training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
Board members also receive guidance on regulatory matters and the corporate governance framework that the Group operates under.
Members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees received briengs from our auditors and remuneration advisers respectively to ensure they remain up to date with current regulations and developments.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary and independent professional advisers, at the Companys expense, where specic expertise is required in the course of their duties.
Board evaluation The Board undertakes an annual formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees.
This year, in accordance with Code provision B.
6.2. the Board undertook an externally facilitated board evaluation conducted by Clare Howard Consultants, who have no other connection with the Company.
The unanimous view of the review was that the Board works very well and that all the Directors are passionate about the business, and that they enjoy their role on the Board.
The Board has a pivotal role in preserving the organisations culture and ultimately its success.
In line with all successful organisations, succession planning is seen as a key focus for the Company and the Board continues to evolve to address this issue.
The autonomous structure of the Group also provides strength in depth which further mitigates this risk.
An action plan has been agreed by the Board to address the recommendations made from the review.
Conicts of Interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. The decision to authorise a conict of interest can only be made by non-conicted Directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such a decision the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and potential conicts of interest of current and proposed roles to be undertaken by the Board with other organisations are regularly reviewed in respect of both the nature of those roles, and their time commitment, and for proper authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director.
The Board consider these procedures to be working effectively.
Insurance The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures Directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, which they may incur in carrying out their duties.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has delegated certain matters to individual Executives and to specic committees of the Board.
The responsibilities of the key Board committees are described below.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets monthly and reviews the financial and operating performance of all Group divisions and companies.
The Group Managing Director, Rob Perrins, chairs this Committee and other members comprise, Tony Pidgley, Nick Simpkin, Karl Whiteman, Sean Ellis and Greg Fry.
The following three Board committees operate within clearly dened Terms of Reference pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
The Terms of Reference can be downloaded from the section dealing with Investor Relations on the Berkeley website www.
Copies are also available to shareholders on application to the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by David Howell and the other members at 30 April 2013 were Alison Nimmo, Glyn Barker and Veronica Wadley.
During the year Glyn Barker and Veronica Wadley were appointed to the Committee on 5 September 2012 and Alan Coppin retired from the Committee on the same date.
David Howell, who qualied as a chartered accountant in 1971 and was the Chief Financial officer and a Main Board Director of lastminute.
com plc until March 2005, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
David Howell was also Chairman of the Audit Committee of Nestor Healthcare Group plc from 2000 to 2003.
The Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to 30 April 2013 with no absences.
The Group Finance Director and representatives of the external and internal auditors also attend the Committees meetings by invitation.
BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 79 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 79 22 07 2013 17:00 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Committee has formal Terms of Reference which set out its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out below: monitoring the integrity of the financial reporting of the Company and reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: and overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, including appointment, removal and fees, and ensuring the auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee met its responsibilities in the year by: reviewing the financial disclosures in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and half-year financial report prior to their publication.
This included reviewing the accounting policies and financial reporting judgements.
It also reviewed the contents of interim management statements issued by the Company during the year: undertaking an annual assessment of the Groups system of risk management and internal control, including: considering the key risks facing the Group considering the key elements of the Groups control processes receiving reports from both external and internal auditors during the course of the year reviewing the operations and effectiveness of internal audit assessing the adequacy of disclosure in the Annual Report monitoring ongoing compliance in relation to the Bribery Act: reviewing the external auditors audit plan, their performance, effectiveness, independence and fees: and reviewing the non-audit fees policy.
The Committee has a policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services in order to safeguard auditor independence and the ratio of audit fees including the fees for the Interim Review to non-audit fees should be no greater than 1:1.
The ratio for the year ended 30 April 2013 was within the limits of this ratio.
Audit and non-audit fee disclosures are set out in Note 4.
Any departure from this ratio will only be as a consequence of transactional work, where the Committee considers it is right for the auditors to undertake such work where the reasons for doing so are compelling, such as where i it is proprietary to them: ii they have pre-existing knowledge and experience that precludes the use of alternative rms: iii the nature of the transaction is that the Groups auditors are the only practical solution.
Non-audit work carried out by all accounting rms, including the auditors, is formally reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The external auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary, and there is open dialogue between the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit Committee before each Audit Committee meeting and, after the meeting, the opportunity to meet without the Executive Directors present.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys policy for Executive remuneration and the precise terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 77.
At 30 April 2013, the Committee was chaired by Alan Coppin and the other members were Sir John Armitt and Glyn Barker, who are all independent Non-executive Directors.
Glyn Barker was appointed to the Committee on 13 June 2012 and David Howell retired from the Committee on the same date.
With effect from 14 June 2013, Glyn Barker became Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during the year to April 2013 with no absences.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her remuneration.
The Executive Directors decide the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors and the Committee takes into consideration the recommendations of the Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director regarding the remuneration of their Executive colleagues.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, is appropriate, as well as giving full consideration to succession planning on a regular basis.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, Tony Pidgley and the Independent Non-executive members at 30 April 2013 were David Howell, Sir John Armitt and Veronica Wadley.
Veronica Wadley was appointed to the Committee on 13 June 2012.
The Committee met formally on two occasions during the year to 30 April 2013 with no absences.
During the year, the activities of the Committee included considering and making recommendations to the Board regarding the membership of the Board committees and reviewing succession plans for the Executive team.
80 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 80 22 07 2013 17:00 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE Appointments to the Board are made based on merit and the specic skills and expertise required for the role.
The Committee has chosen not to set specic representation targets for women at Board level at this time.
However, it recognises that the benets of diversity, including gender diversity, will continue to be an active consideration when further changes to the Boards composition are considered.
The process for identifying and recommending new appointments includes a combination of discussions and consultations, in addition to formal interviews, utilising the services of independent recruitment specialists, as appropriate.
KEY RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
Internal control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These processes and procedures were in place from the start of the financial year to the date on which the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts were approved and accord with the Turnbull guidance issued in 2005.
The processes are regularly reviewed by the Board and include an annual review by the Directors of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control as part of its year end procedures.
The key features of the system of internal control include: Clear organisational structure The Group operates through autonomous divisions and operating companies, each with its own board.
Operating company boards meet on a weekly basis and divisional boards on a monthly basis, and comprehensive information is prepared for such meetings on a standardised basis to cover all aspects of the business.
Formal reporting lines and delegated levels of authority exist within this structure and the review of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the operating companies, divisions and at Group.
Risk assessment Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing management reporting throughout the Group.
At operating company and divisional level, Board meeting agendas and packs are structured around the key risks facing the Group.
These risks include health and safety, sales, production build cost and programme, land and planning, economic, regulatory and site specic matters.
In addition, there is a formalised process whereby each division produces quarterly risks and control reports that identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
These risk reports are reviewed and updated regularly.
A Group Risk Management Report is presented at each Group Main Board Meeting, setting out the current factors affecting the risk prole of the Group, the mitigation of these risks and the key changes to this risk prole since the last report.
Financial reporting A comprehensive budgeting and real-time forecasting system, covering both profit and cash, operates within the Group.
This enables executive management to view key financial and operating data on a daily basis.
On a weekly and monthly basis more formal reporting up to the Group Executives and the Board is prepared.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
There is a consolidation process in place which ensures that there is an audit trail between the Groups financial reporting system and the Groups statutory financial statements.
Investment and contracting controls The Group has clearly dened guidelines for the purchase and sale of land within the Group, which include detailed environmental, planning and financial appraisal and are subject to executive authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also followed for the selection of consultants and contractors.
The review and monitoring of all build programmes and budgets are a fundamental element of the Companys financial reporting cycle.
Policies and procedures Policies and procedures, including operating and financial controls, are detailed in policies and procedures manuals that are refreshed and improved as appropriate.
Training to staff is given where necessary.
Central functions Strong central functions, including Legal, Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, provide support and consistency to the rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal treasury-related risks, decisions and control processes are managed by the Group Finance function, under the direction of the Group Finance Director.
Internal audit Internal auditors are in place in each division and at Group to provide assurance on the operation of the Groups control framework.
Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing policy which has been communicated to all staff, where Directors, management and staff can report in confidence any concerns they may have of malpractice, financial irregularity, breaches of any Group procedures, or other matters.
The arrangements in place are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Bribery Act The Groups Finance Director has the executive responsibility for implementing the Groups policy and reporting to the Audit Committee, who are charged with overseeing the development and implementation of the Groups policies and procedures and monitoring ongoing compliance.
BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 81 22 07 2013 17:00 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional investors.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet all Directors after the Annual General Meeting in addition to individual meetings with the Company.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
In addition, the corporate website gives information on the Group and latest news, including regulatory announcements.
The presentations made after the announcement of the preliminary and interim results are also available on the website.
The Board is kept informed of the views of the shareholders through periodic reports from the Companys broker UBS.
Additionally, the Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns where contact through the normal channels has failed or when such contact is inappropriate.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting AGM where the Group Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions and will also be available for discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the meeting.
The Company arranges for the Annual Report and Accounts and related papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 working days for consideration prior to the AGM.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, which, including abstentions, are declared at the AGM after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and are announced to the Stock Exchange shortly after the close of the meeting.
The Company also complies with the requirements of the Code with the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, which set out their expected time commitment, in addition to the service contracts for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered ofce.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are all described in the Trading and Financial Reviews on pages 41 to 51.
The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group, including the repayment of 1.7 billion to shareholders by 2021, and compared this to the level of committed loan facilities and cash resources over the medium term.
In making this assessment consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in future financial forecasts and where applicable reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the key factors affecting the financial performance of the Group.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Board is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the Annual Report provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6. and the information relating to the Companys share capital structure is included in the Directors Report on page 58.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and have prepared the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
82 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 82 22 07 2013 17:00 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements respectively: and prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and b the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board A M Bradshaw Company Secretary 16 July 2013 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83 3 P10 BERK AR13 CorpGov 78 83. indd 83 22 07 2013 17:00 Kew Bridge Road 84 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 84 22 07 2013 15:23 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 85 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
