68 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Statutory and corporate governance information Going concern Corporate governance statement The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation This section of the Directors report contains the corporate tothe financial statements for the year to 31 March 2013. governance statement required by FCA Disclosure and Transparency The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Rule 7.2. affect its future development, performance and position are set out inthe Business review section.
The financial position of the Group, Corporate governance itscapital structure, gearing and liquidity positions are described Throughout the year, the Company complied with the provisions of the inthe Financial review section.
The Groups policies on risk UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the Financial management, including treasury and funding risks, are contained Reporting Council in May 2010. inthe Risk section.
Further details are contained in the financial statements and notes including, in particular, details on financial The Companys approach to corporate governance riskmanagement and derivative financial instruments.
The Company seeks to comply with established best practice in the The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its field of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted core values business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic andglobal policies which set out the behaviour expected of staff outlook.
The Directors have considered the uncertainties inherent intheir dealings with shareholders, customers, colleagues, suppliers incurrent and expected future market conditions and their possible and others who engage with the Company.
impact upon the financial performance of the Group.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has The Boards responsibilities and processes andwill maintain sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue The Boards key responsibilities are described on page 62.
It is operating in the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group thegoing concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association Audit information and any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders.
Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the The Articles of Association empower the Board to offer, allot, grant Directors confirms that: options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the Companys a s o far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information shares as the Board may decide.
The Companies Act 2006 ofwhich the Companys auditors are unaware: and authorises the Company to make market purchases of its own shares if the purchase has first been authorised by a resolution b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken tomake ofthe Company.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and toestablish that the Companys auditors are aware of At the AGM in June 2012, shareholders renewed the Boards authority suchinformation.
to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits and also renewed the Boards authority to repurchase B shares on behalf of the Company subject Appointment of auditors to certain limits.
Details of the authorities which the Board will be In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a seeking at the 2013 AGM are set out in the 2013 Notice of AGM.
resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to members at the forthcoming AGM.
The Articles of Association also specifically empower the Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow money and to mortgage orcharge the Companys assets and any uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 69 Matters reserved for the Board Meetings of the Board The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to The principal matters considered by the Board during the year itand its duly authorised Committees for decision.
These include: inaddition to matters formally reserved to the Board included: nn Approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan and nn The appointment of the new Chief Executive: annualoperating budget: nn The strategic review and cost reduction plans: nn Approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial nn The revised strategic model and related KPIs: statements and changes in the Groups accounting policies nn Resolutions proposed by shareholders for the 2012 AGM: orpractices: nn The budget, financial resources and FX hedging strategy: nn Changes relating to the capital structure of the Company nn Regular reports from the Chief Executive: oritsregulated status: nn Regular reports from the Boards committees: nn Major capital projects: nn The recommendations of the Valuations Committee on valuations nn Major changes in the nature of business operations: ofinvestments: and nn Investments and divestments in the ordinary course of business nn The business model and its application by different business lines.
above certain limits set by the Board from time to time: Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner nn Adequacy of internal control systems: in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are nn Appointments to the Board and the Executive Committee: supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors nn Principal terms and conditions of employment of members from time to time.
oftheExecutive Committee: and nn Changes in employee share schemes and other long-term Performance evaluation incentiveschemes.
During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its Matters delegated by the Board to management include ownperformance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day operation Further details are given on page 64. of the business, the appointment and remuneration of all executives below the Executive Committee and the formulation and execution ofrisk management policies and procedures.
A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership is prepared by management and reviewed periodically by the Board.
Thepurpose of this plan is to identify suitable candidates for succession to key senior management positions, agree their training and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board and its committees attended by Directors during the year to 31 March 2013 and, in brackets, the number of such meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of ad hoc meetings were held to deal with specific items as they arose.
Audit and Brand and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Values Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 12 6 3 8 4 3 Number attended: Sir Adrian Montague 12 12 3 3 4 4 3 3 1 S A Borrows 12 12 1 1 3 3 3 3 J S Wilson 12 12 4 4 3 J P Asquith 12 12 6 6 3 3 8 8 3 3 3 A R Cox 12 12 6 6 3 3 8 8 3 3 3 R H Meddings 12 12 6 6 3 3 3 3 3 W Mesdag 10 12 2 3 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 M G Verluyten 12 12 6 6 3 3 3 3 2 M J Queen 2 3 1 1 1 Appointed to Valuations Committee and Nominations Committee upon becoming Chief Executive on 17 May 2012.
3 Although not members of the Brand and Values Committee each of these non-executive Directors was invited to attend and participate in the Committees meetings.
70 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Statutory and corporate governance information Appointment and re-election of Directors The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Senior Independent Director Actsand satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board Directors areappointed for an initial period of three years.
Before andthe Chief Executive is clearly defined and has been approved thethird andsixth anniversaries of a non-executive Directors first bythe Board.
Their roles are described on page 64. appointment, theDirector discusses with the Board whether Mr R H Meddings has served as Senior Independent Director since itisappropriate for afurther three-year term to be served.
October 2010, to whom, in accordance with the Code, concerns can Under the Companys Articles of Association the minimum number of beconveyed.
Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution.
Directors are appointed by Directors ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders or by the Board.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five independent Directors retire by rotation at an AGM if they were appointed non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Biographical bytheBoard since the preceding AGM, they held office during the details for each of the Directors are set out in the Board of Directors twopreceding AGMs but did not retire at either of them, not being and Executive Committee section.
Sir Adrian Montague served Chairman of the Board, they held non-executive office for a continuous asChairman and Mr J P Asquith, Mr S A Borrows, Mr A R Cox, period of nine years or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose MrRHMeddings, Mr W Mesdag, Ms M G Verluyten and Mrs J S Wilson toretire from office.
Shareholders have the power to remove any served as Directors throughout the year under review.
Mr M J Queen Director by special resolution.
served as a Director until 16 May 2012.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring Directors are In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, noneligible for reappointment.
The office of Director shall be vacated if the executive Directors are expected to bring an independent judgement Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards a Director or where the Board so resolves following the Director of conduct, and to help the Board provide the Company with effective suffering from mental ill-health or being absent from Board meetings leadership.
They are also expected to ensure high standards of for 12 months without the Boards permission.
financial probity on the part of the Company and to monitor the effectiveness of the Executive Directors.
Directors are expected In accordance with the Code all Directors choose to submit to tomake available sufficient time to meet the requirements of the reappointment every year.
Accordingly at the AGM to be held on appointment.
The average time commitment for a non-executive 18July 2013 all the Directors will retire from office.
All the Directors Director is expected to be around 15 days a year together with are eligible for and seek reappointment.
The Boards recommendation additional time for serving on the Boards committees.
for the reappointment of Directors is set out in the 2013 Notice of AGM.
The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups strategic planand annual budget, provide the non-executive Directors with theopportunity to contribute to and validate managements plans andassist in the development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors receive regular management accounts, reports and information whichenable them to scrutinise the Companys and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Further details of the role and responsibilities of non-executive Directors are set out on page 64.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 71 Directors independence The Boards Committees All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, who was As described on page 63, the Board is assisted by various standing independent on appointment were considered by the Board to be committees of the Board which report regularly to the Board.
independent for the purposes of the Code in the year to 31 March 2013.
TheBoards Committees are described below and on the next page.
The Board reviews the independence of non-executive Directors at Audit and Compliance Committee least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises Mr R H Meddings of a Directors interests and relationships rather than applying rigid Chairman, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox and Ms M G Verluyten, all of criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No Director was materially whom are independent non-executive Directors and served throughout interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during the year.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, orattheend of the financial period that was significant in relation MrRHMeddings, has recent and relevant financial experience.
tothe business of the Company.
During the year, the Committee: Directors employment contracts nn Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control Details of Executive Directors employment contracts are set out environmentofthe Group and the Groups compliance with intheDirectors remuneration report.
itsregulatory requirements: nn Reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting Training and development disclosures comprised in the half-yearly and annual financial The Company has developed a training policy which provides statements of the Company and reviewed the scope of the annual aframework within which training for Directors is planned with external audit plan and the external audit findings: theobjective of ensuring Directors understand the duties and nn Received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the valuation responsibilities of being a director of a listed company.
All Directors ofthe Groups investment assets and recommended valuations are required to update their skills and maintain their familiarity with tothe Board: the Company and its business continually.
Presentations on different nn Reviewed portfolio management processes and tax compliance aspects of the Companys business are made regularly to the Board.
arrangements: On appointment, all non-executive Directors have discussions with the nn Received regular reports and updates on the audit plan from the Chairman and the Chief Executive following which appropriate Groups internal audit function, monitored its activities and reviewed briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business its effectiveness: and the Companys procedures are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough nn Received regular reports from Group Risk Committee and understanding of the Companys business by meeting members theGroups regulatory compliance function: ofthesenior management team who in turn arrange, as required, nn Oversaw the Companys relations with its external auditors visits to investment or support teams.
including assessing auditor performance, independence and objectivity, recommending the auditors reappointment and The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal approving the auditors fees: or other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
nn Met separately with the Finance Director, the Director, Internal Audit, theDirector, Group Compliance and the external auditors in the absence of management: and nn Received regular reports on litigation involving the Group, on the Groups regulatory capital position, on developments in regulation and accounting standards, on bank covenants and third-party liabilities, and on Directors and Executive Committee members expenses.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr J P Asquith Chairman, Mr A R Cox and Mr W Mesdag, all of whom are independent non-executive Directors and served throughout the year.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is described in the Directors remuneration report.
72 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Statutory and corporate governance information Nominations Committee Valuations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague The Valuations Committee comprises Mr W Mesdag Chairman, Chairman, Mr S A Borrows, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox, SirAdrian Montague, Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson, all of whom MrRHMeddings, Mr W Mesdag and Ms M G Verluyten, all of whom served throughout the year except Mr Borrows who served from his served throughout the year, save for Mr S A Borrows who served from appointment as Chief Executive on 17 May 2012.
Mr M J Queen was his appointment as Chief Executive on 17 May 2012.
Mr M J Queen was amember of the Committee until he ceased to be Chief Executive a member of the Committee until he ceased to be Chief Executive on on16 May 2012.
16 May 2012, although he did not attend meetings which considered During the year, the Valuations Committee considered and made the appointment of his successor.
recommendations to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the During the year, the Nominations Committee: Board on the quarterly valuations of the Groups investments.
nn Considered candidates for appointment as Chief Executive and Brand and Values Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr Borrows: and The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague nn Considered the size, balance, diversity including gender and Chairman, Mr S A Borrows and Mr K J Dunn, all of whom served composition of the Board and put in train arrangements for throughout the year, save for Mr S A Borrows who served from selecting further candidates for recommendation to the Board 17May2012.
Mr M J Queen served as a member of the Committee forappointment as non-executive Director.
In addition, all of the Companys non-executive The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process Directors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee and forthe appointment of Directors with the objective of identifying participate in its discussions.
the skills and experience profile required of new Directors and During the year, the Brand and Values Committee considered and identifying suitable candidates.
The procedure includes the maderecommendations on a range of matters pertaining to the Groups appraisal and selection of potential candidates by the Committee, reputation, and its approach as a responsible investor and a responsible including in the case of non-executive Directors whether they business.
The Committee considered reports on Responsible have sufficient time to fulfil their roles.
Specialist recruitment Investment policy, the environmental, social and governance risks consultants assist the Committee to identify suitable candidates identified through the Companys portfolio company review process forappointment.
The Committees recommendations for and specific reputational risk incidents arising from investments.
appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women on Boards, The Company Secretary and Code Provision B.
2.4 which will take effect for financial years All Directors have access to the advice and services of the General commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the Board strongly supports Counsel and Company Secretary, who is responsible for advising the the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one important Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Boards aim is to have a broad range of approaches, Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the backgrounds, skills and experience represented on the Board and to Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that the make appointments on merit and against objective criteria, including appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for diversity.
Search agents engaged by the Company are instructed to the full Board.
put forward for all Board positions a diversity of candidates including women candidates.
Major interests in ordinary shares Notifications of the following major voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital which are notifiable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and section793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the Company as at 31 March 2013 and 10 May 2013 as shown in the table below.
Major interests in ordinary shares As at 31 % of issued As at 10 May % of issued Nature of March 2013 share capital 2013 share capital holding BlackRock, Inc 107,675,564 11.08 106,956,376 11.01 Indirect UBS Global Asset Management 46,794,770 4.82 46,526,752 4.79 Artemis Investment Management LLP 44,857,331 4.62 45,186,900 4.65 Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited 43,179,838 4.44 47,915,366 4.93 Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 29,204,206 3.00 30,591,441 3.15 Direct Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 73 Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits available for Relations with shareholders distribution in any year and in priority to any payment of dividend The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful orother distribution to holders of ordinary shares, to a cumulative relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Chief Executive preferential dividend of 3.75% per annum calculated on the amount and the Finance Director meet with the Companys principal of127p per B share the Return Amount.
On a return of capital other institutional shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
than a solvent intra-group reorganisation holders of B shares are TheChairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, entitled to receive in priority to any payment to holders of ordinary corporate governance and Directors remuneration as required.
shares payment of the Return Amount together with any accrued The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers on butunpaid dividends but are not entitled to any further right of shareholder issues and non-executive Directors are invited to participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
attendthe Companys presentations to analysts and are offered Holders of B shares are not entitled to notice of or to attend, speak theopportunity to meet shareholders.
orvote at general meetings save where the B share dividend has The Companys major shareholders are offered the opportunity remained unpaid for six months or more or where the business of tomeet newly-appointed non-executive Directors.
themeeting includes consideration of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company other than a solvent intra-group reorganisation in The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate which case holders of B shares shall be entitled to attend, speak and with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations vote only in relation to such resolution and in either case shall, on aregenerally made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
apoll, be entitled to one vote per B share held.
TheChairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, andNominations Committees are generally available to answer There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares in shareholders questions.
The Board may decline to register: atransfer of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in The 2012 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less theUncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: a transfer to more than20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting than four joint holders: a transfer of certificated shares which is oneach resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were notinrespect of only one class of share: a transfer which is not madeavailable on the Companys website.
accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates: a transfer which is not duly stamped in circumstances where a duly Rights and restrictions attaching to shares stamped instrument is required: or a transfer where in accordance A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares as at with section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice under section 31March 2013 is set out below.
793 of that Act has been served by the Company on a shareholder who has then failed to give the information required within the The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special specified time.
In the latter circumstances the Company may make resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
Holders of ordinary the relevant shares subject to certain restrictions including in respect shares and B shares enjoy the rights set out in the Articles of of the ability to exercise voting rights, to transfer the shares validly Association of the Company and under the laws of England and Wales.
and, except in the case of a liquidation, to receive the payment of Any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and sums due from the Company.
Since 14 July 2009, the Company has restrictions as the Company by ordinary resolution or failing such beenentitled to appoint a person to execute a transfer on behalf of resolution the Board may decide.
allholders of B shares in acceptance of an offer, paying the holders Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote such amount as they would have been entitled to on a winding-up atgeneral meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the case of ofthe Company.
corporations, corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote at There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to control such meetings on their behalf.
To attend and vote at a general meeting ofthe Company.
There are no restrictions placed on voting rights a shareholder must be entered on the register of members at such offully paid shares, save where in accordance with Article 12 of the time not being earlier than 48 hours before the meeting as stated in Companys Articles of Association a restriction notice has been served the notice of general meeting.
On a poll, holders of ordinary shares are by the Company in respect of shares for failure to comply with entitled to one vote for each share held.
Holders of ordinary shares statutory notices or where a transfer notice as described below has are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and accounts, been served in respect of shares and has not yet been complied with.
to receive such dividends and other distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, toshare in the surplus assets of the Company after satisfaction of theentitlements of the holders of the B shares or such other shares with preferred rights as may then be in issue.
74 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Statutory and corporate governance information In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Companys Articles Policies of Association the Company may serve a transfer notice on holders nn Core values and global policies together comprising the Groups ofshares.
The relevant circumstances relate to: a potential tax highlevel principles and controls, with which all staff are expected disadvantage to the Company, b the number of United States to comply: Residents who own or hold shares becoming 75 or more, or c the nn Manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, Company being required to be registered as an investment company with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for monitoring under relevant US legislation.
The notice would require the transfer corrective action: and ofrelevant shares and pending such transfer the rights and privileges nn A code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting attaching to those shares would be suspended.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders ofitssecurities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise Processes ofvoting rights.
nn Appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil Portfolio management and voting policy theirallotted responsibilities: In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach is to seek nn A planning framework which incorporates a Board approved toadd value to the businesses in which the Group invests through the strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: Groups extensive experience, resources and contacts.
In relation to nn Formal business risk reviews performed by management which quoted investments, the Groups policy is to exercise voting rights on evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood of identified matters affecting its interests.
risks and possible new risk areas: nn The setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and Internal control thereview of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control nn A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system is on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute andregular re-forecasting: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
nn Regular reports to the Board, which analyse funding requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of measure the Groups exposure to exchange rate movements and matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees for record the level of compliance withthe Groups funding objectives: decision, the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over nn A Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate regulatory appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
compliance procedures and best practices into the Groups The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly systems: and defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Board nn Well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval considers and approves a strategic plan and budget on an annual ofinvestments, including detailed investment and divestment basis and receives regular updates.
In addition, there are established approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority procedures and processes for planning and controlling expenditure and regular post-investment reviews.
and the making of investments.
There are also information and reporting systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and theirperformance.
The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formed bythe Chief Executive and its purpose is to review the business oftheGroup in order to ensure that business risk is considered, assessed and managed as an integral part of the business.
There isan ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This process was in place for the year to 31March 2013 and up to the date of this report.
Details of the riskmanagement framework can be found in the Risk section.
The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed by the Boardand the Audit and Compliance Committee and complies with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The process established for the Group includes: Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 75 Verification Auditors independence and objectivity nn An Internal Audit function which undertakes periodic examination Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, auditor performance ofbusiness units and processes and recommends improvements is monitored on an ongoing basis and formally reviewed every five in controls to management: years, the last review being held during the year to 31 March 2009. nn The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion Following this review the Audit and Compliance Committee concluded ontheannual financial statements: and that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the Companys auditors should be continued.
nn An Audit and Compliance Committee which considers significant control matters and receives reports from Internal Audit, the The Audit and Compliance Committee recognises the importance of external auditors and Group Compliance on a regular basis.
ensuring the independence and objectivity of the Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature and extent of the services provided by them, The internal control system is monitored and supported by Internal thelevel of their fees and the element comprising non-audit fees.
Audit and Group Compliance, which operate on an international basis and report to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee The Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman is notified of all on the Groups operations.
The work of Internal Audit is focused assignments allocated to Ernst & Young over a set threshold, other ontheareas of greatest risk to the Group determined with reference than those related to due diligence within the Groups investment to the Groups risk management process.
process where the team engaged would be independent of the audit team.
Safeguards have been put in place to reduce the likelihood The external auditors independently and objectively review the of compromising auditor independence, including the following approach of management to reporting operating results and financial principles which are applied in respect of services provided by condition.
In co-ordination with Internal Audit, they also review and theauditors and other accounting firms and monitored by the Audit test the system of internal financial control and the information and Compliance Committee: contained in the annual financial statements to the extent necessary for expressing their opinion.
nn Services required to be undertaken by the auditors, which include regulatory returns, formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder Financial reporting and other circulars.
This work is normally allocated directly In the context of the above internal control framework, there are totheauditors: specific processes in place in relation to Financial Reporting, including: nn Services which it is most efficient for the auditors to provide.
In this case, information relating to the service is largely derived from the nn Comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, Companys audited financial records: for example, corporate tax including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and services.
This work is normally allocated to the auditors subject systems access controls: toconsideration of any impact on their independence: and nn Updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance Committee nn Services that could be provided by a number of firms including of accounting developments, including draft and new accounting general consultancy work.
All significant consultancy projects standards and legislation: arenormally put out to tender and work would be allocated to nn A separate Valuations Committee which considers the Groups theauditors only if it did not present a potential threat to the investment valuation policies, application and outcome: independence of the audit team.
Included in this category is due nn Approval of the Groups budget by the Board and regular updates diligence work relating to the investment process.
If this service onactual and forecast financial performance against budget: were to be provided by the auditors, the specific team engaged nn Reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial would be independent of the audit team.
reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in note 6 controls, processes and fraud risk: tothefinancial statements.
nn Independent updates and reports from the external auditors onaccounting developments, application of accounting standards, By order of the Board key accounting judgements and observations on systems and K J Dunn controls: and Company Secretary nn Regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, and 15 May 2013 updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
Registered Office: 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD 76 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report The Committee has worked to align future rewards more closely with shareholder returns and to tailor performance measures to reflect progress in implementing Group strategy.
Jonathan Asquith Chairman, Remuneration Committee Statement by the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Meetings Committee Chairman Meetings eligible to attended in attend in As Remuneration Committee Chairman, I am pleased to introduce Committee members during the year theyear theyear theDirectors remuneration report for the financial year 1 April 2012 to 31March 2013 the year and to provide some details of the J P Asquith Chairman 8 8 background against which the Committees decisions have been taken A R Cox 8 8 in the year.
References to the current year relate to the financial year W Mesdag 8 8 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Background Mr Borrows was appointed Chief Executive on 17 May 2012 and in Advice received by the Committee during the year June 2012, following a strategic review, announced 3is future strategy During the year, the Committee received external, independent including a major restructuring and cost reduction programme.
advice from Kepler Associates, who did not provide any Aspart of the restructuring programme, management and the servicesto the Group during the year other than to the Committee undertook a review of 3is remuneration arrangements, Remuneration Committee.
Kepler Associates is a signatory including those of the Executive Directors.
totheCode of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
TheCommittee also received advice from Mr S A Borrows Chief Remuneration review objectives Executive from 17 May 2012 and Mr M J Queen Chief Executive The key objectives of the remuneration review were to ensure: until 16May2012, neither of whom advised the Committee on nn a fair and transparent split of returns between our key stakeholders, their own remuneration.
including between shareholders and employees: nn closer alignment of remuneration arrangements with our key strategic objectives: nn clearer links between shareholder returns and compensation, including a greater proportion of compensation in shares: and nn greater differentiation between individuals based on their relative personal performance and contribution.
As part of the review, the Board wished to ensure that the Groups new strategic objectives were clearly supported by a set of incentives, including measures and targets, that related directly to those objectives.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 77 Outcome of the review Remuneration Policy for the Following the Group-wide remuneration review, the following principles were adopted: current and future years nn align employees interests with those of shareholders and fund Chairman and non-executive Directors investors including encouraging staff share ownership and introducing shareholding targets for senior staff: Remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive nn support key strategic objectives it needs to be clear to employees Directors for the current year is as set out below.
what they need to deliver and what they will be paid for doing so: Remuneration Benchmarking Policy objective type nn attract, retain and motivate the right talent throughout the Directors fees Competitive with fees To attract and retain organisation: paid by companies Directors of the nn ensure affordability in the short and long term ensuring the ofcomparable size and calibre required.
economics of the business drive total reward: by listed financial services companies.
nn promote sound risk management practices: and In line with best practice the Chairman To preserve nn arrangements to be simple and cost effective to administer.
and non-executive Directors are not independence.
eligible for bonuses, long-term incentives, Whilst this review did not result in the Committee proposing any pensions or performance-related changes to the quantum of the shortand long-term incentives for remuneration.
Executive Directors, it led to a refocusing of the measures attached to No changes to remuneration policy for the Chairman and long-term incentives to support the Groups strategy and to a change non-executive Directors are expected for subsequent years.
in the policy on deferring bonus into shares.
Going forward: nn Performance share awards to be granted in calendar year 2013 Chairman and non-executive Director annual fees are as set onwards will vest based on three-year performance against a out below.
combination of stretching absolute total shareholder return targets Chairman fee 265,000 plus 30,000 and the achievement of a balanced scorecard of measures linked of3ishares closely to our stated strategic objectives, including covering Non-executive Directors: operating costs with annual cash income.
Board membership fee 50,000 plus 2,500 3i shares nn 40% of Executive Directors annual bonuses will be deferred into Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 shares vesting in equal instalments over four years, compared to Committee fees: the current policy which applies to the year just ended of deferring Chairman 20,000 the excess of bonus over 100% of base salary into shares vesting Member 4,000 after three years.
This principle will also be applied to all other Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit and members of the Executive Committee.
Compliance Committee, Remuneration Committee and Valuations Committee.
nn Higher-earning members of staff below Executive Committee will also have a portion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in The fees shown above took effect from 1 April 2011 and are equal instalments over a three-year period, compared to the toremain unchanged for the current year.
current policy where such bonuses are paid 100% in cash.
nn Shareholding targets for staff have been extended or, for some staff members, introduced for the first time.
The share ownership and retention policy will require affected staff to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the Companys shares equivalent to at least three times salary for the Chief Executive, one and a half times salary for the Finance Director and all other members of the Executive Committee and one times salary for staff designated as partners in the Groups businesses.
This report will be the subject of a resolution at our forthcoming AGM which I hope you will support.
Jonathan Asquith Chairman, Remuneration Committee 15 May 2013 78 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report Executive Directors As part of the Group-wide remuneration review referred to above, and following consultation with shareholders, the Committee adopted anew remuneration policy for Executive Directors for the current year as set out in the summary table below.
Remuneration element Operation for the current year to 31 March 2014 Objective At 1 April 2013, Mr Borrows annual base salary was 550,000 To provide the basis for Base salary and Mrs Wilsons was 400,000.
These have not increased since acompetitive package.
their appointments to their current positions, being May 2012 for Mr Borrows and October 2008 for Mrs Wilson.
Base salaries are to remain unchanged for the year to 31 March 2014.
Employer contribution of 12% of pensionable base salary pa To provide the basis for Pension oracash allowance in lieu.
Maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 400% Alignment with Group strategic Annual bonus ofbasesalary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base salary objectives and performance.
Deferral into shares to balance The Committee retains discretion to make adjustments to bonus delivery of short-term results arrangements in appropriate circumstances.
withlong-term value creation andto create alignment 40% of any bonus earned in respect of performance in the withshareholders.
currentyear will be deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over four years.
Deferred shares carry the right toreceive dividends or other distributions.
Deferred elements aresubject to clawback as summarised in Clawback policy onpage80.
Bonus is assessed against a balanced scorecard agreed by the Committee at the start of each financial year.
Annual performance share awards with a face value of up to Alignment of reward with longLong-term incentive plan 400% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base term, sustainable company salary for the Finance Director.
Awards will be subject to a three-year performance condition.
The combination of strategic Tothe extent shares vest, they will be released six months performance measures and following the end of the performance period together with absolute total shareholder asumequivalent to dividends or other distributions.
returntargets balance internalandexternal In appropriate exceptional circumstances the Committee can , also grant restricted shares, with no performance condition andalign participants with but subject onlyto leaver conditions.
madeto MrBorrows on his appointment as a Director in recognition ofawards forfeited on leaving previous employment.
This award is detailed on page 82.
As outlined above, variable remuneration comprising annual bonus and long-term incentives is intended to form a substantial proportion ofExecutive Directors total potential remuneration.
Pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group is one of the factors taken into account in determining the Executive Directors remuneration including base pay increases, if any, and the quantum of annual bonus and long-term incentive awards.
During theyear, the Committees decisions on Executive Directors were informed by a comprehensive Group-wide remuneration review.
No changes to remuneration policy for the Executive Directors are expected for subsequent years although the scorecard for assessing performance for annual bonus and the performance condition attached to long-term incentive awards will be reviewed at the start of each cycle to ensure it continues to reflect strategic priorities.
Details of any future changes to the scorecard will be disclosed in future Directors remuneration reports.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 79 The individual performances of both Executive Directors were judged Base salary by the Committee to be exceptional, with each of them scoring highly Executive Director base salaries are as shown in the table opposite.
against the measures and factors in the balanced scorecard.
For the current year, Executive Director base salaries will remain Mr Borrows was judged to have made a very strong start as Chief frozen at these levels, following a review by the Committee and taking Executive, having announced on 29 June 2012 a clear strategy and into account pay and conditions across the Group as a whole.
immediate priorities for the Group, and subsequently ensuring the Group delivered exceptionally against those priorities.
The Committee Annual bonus considered that he has shown very strong leadership of the Group The final bonuses for Executive Directors for the year were awarded through the year since his appointment as Chief Executive.
As a result against a balanced scorecard agreed by the Committee following of this assessment, Mr Borrows was awarded a bonus of 360% Mr Borrows appointment as Chief Executive which is described below.
of base salary being 90% of his maximum bonus opportunity.
The Committee considered that Mrs Wilson had also demonstrated % of bonus opportunity Measure exceptional performance during the year, particularly in her contributions to the extensive organisational changes, and in her 22% nnUndertaking strategic review of the business.
management of the Groups initiatives to achieve the gross debt and nn Announcement and implementation of new strategy.
gearing targets and funding cost reductions announced on 29 June nnReduction in complexity of organisation.
Accordingly, and as a result of the Committees assessment nnImproving engagement with shareholders.
nn Reducing discount to NAV from 31 March 2012 level.
ofher performance in the year, Mrs Wilson was awarded a bonus of 200% of base salary being 80% of her maximum bonus opportunity.
22% Achievement of targets announced to the market on29June 2012 relating to headcount, operating In accordance with the bonus deferral policy applicable to the year, costsand gross debt reduction.
which was set out in the 2012 Directors remuneration report, bonus 22% Implementation of the six asset management inexcess of 100% of base salary is deferred into shares vesting after initiatives announced on 29 June 2012 and of the three years.
For the current year to 31 March 2014, Executive Directors 34% Deliverables relating to the Private Equity, annualbonuses will be determined on the following revised Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses.
balancedscorecard: The Committee uses the scorecard as a prompt and guide to % of bonus judgement and considers it in the wider context of risk, market opportunity Measure andother factors.
50% Targets relating to: nnoperating costs: In determining bonus levels for the year the Committee determined nngross interest costs: the level of achievements against the measures contained in the nnannual operating cash profit: balanced scorecard as well as other matters, including risk and nnPrivate Equity realisations: and market factors, which it considered relevant.
As can be seen from the nnshareholder distributions.
information set out on page 19, the Groups progress during the year 30% nn deliverables relating to the Private Equity, has been exceptional, with all targets in the first three categories Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses.
noted above in the balanced scorecard used for the year having beenmet or exceeded.
The Committee also concluded that the year 20% nndeveloping the strategic vision for the Group: demonstrated strong performance in both the Private Equity and the nntransformation of the Groups culture: Debt Management businesses, with the Infrastructure business also nn re-articulating people strategy: and nn maintaining good engagement with investors and performing well.
maintaining the quality of the shareholder register.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a prompt and guide to judgement and considers it in the wider context of risk, market andother factors.
80 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report Long-term incentives Performance graphs The performance condition attached to Performance Share awards made in the year which were granted in July 2012 is set out in note 4 TSR graph: tothe Long-term share awards table on page 82.
The performance This graph compares the Companys total shareholder return for the condition was chosen so as to align Executive Directors with five financial years to 31 March 2013 with the totalshareholder return shareholders interests by linking a significant part of their potential of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The FTSE All-Share Index is a widely used remuneration to Total Return on Equity measured over three years.
As part of its remuneration review, the Committee adopted a new performance condition to apply to Performance Share awards to 3i total shareholder return versus FTSE All-Share begranted in 2013 and amended the vesting arrangements so that total return cumulative tothe extent shares vest they will be released in full six months following the end of the three year performance period.
140 Category and weighting Performance measure 120 Absolute TSR 50% Absolute TSR measured over three 100 years from 1 April 2013: nn0% vesting below 10% pa TSR 80 nn20% vesting at 10% pa TSR 60 nn Straight-line vesting between 40 10%and 18% 20 nn100% vesting at 18% pa TSR 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3i FTSE All-Share Rebased at 100 at 1 April 2008 Aligning costs with 25% Progress achieved towards income and strategicobjective of covering improving capital theGroups operating costs with allocation annual cash income.
Diluted NAV graph: 25% Progress achieved towards This graph compares percentage changes in the Companys diluted specifiedtarget relating to net asset value NAV per share over each of the last five financial reducingremuneration costs years with dividends reinvested with the FTSE All-Share Index total relativeto fee income.
return over the same periods.
NAV prior to June 2009 has been Remuneration Committee can reduce any award which would adjusted to reflect the rights issue in June 2009. otherwise vest if gross debt or gearing targets are missed.
This scorecard has been chosen so as to link half of the Executive 3i diluted NAV versus FTSE All-Share total return Directors longer term incentives to total shareholder return whilst at % non-cumulative the same time linking half of it to strategic objectives set by the Board.
60 No executive share options have been granted since calendar 40 year 2010.
20 0 Clawback policy -20 The Committee has agreed a clawback policy, which applies to -40 long-term incentive awards and share bonus awards made during -60 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the year to Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
3i diluted NAV with dividends reinvested FTSE All-Share Under this policy awards are subject to forfeiture or reduction prior to vesting in such exceptional circumstances as the Committee considers fair, reasonable and proportionate.
This would include material misstatement of Group financial statements, dismissal for cause, or cases where an individual is deemed to have caused a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
Promoting share ownership The Companys share ownership and retention policy requires Executive Directors to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the Companys shares equivalent to at least 3.0 times salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 1.5 times salary for the Finance Director.
In addition, shareholding targets have been introduced for other members of Executive Committee at the 1.5 times salary level and for partners in the Groups businesses at 1.0 times salary.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown in the Directors report on page66.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 81 Directors remuneration during the year note 1 note 2 note 3 Total Total remuneration remuneration Cash Deferred Pay in year to year to Salary Bonus for share Cash Benefits lieu of 31March 31March and fees the year bonus benefits In kind notice 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors S A Borrows 541 550 1,430 28 3 2,552 444 J S Wilson 400 400 400 14 2 1,216 732 Chairman and non-executive Directors note 5 Sir Adrian Montague Chairman 295 295 295 J P Asquith 81 81 77 A R Cox 65 65 62 R H Meddings 87 87 85 W Mesdag 81 81 79 M G Verluyten 61 61 13 Former Directors M J Queen until 16 May 2012 note4 113 39 2 275 429 640 Total 1,724 950 1,830 81 7 275 4,867 2,427 Notes: 1.
Deferred share bonuses relating to the year to 31 March 2013 will be paid in ordinary shares of the Company deferred for three years.
Cash benefits for Mr Borrows included car allowance 12k and salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions 14k.
Cash benefits for Mrs Wilson included car allowance 12k.
Cash benefits for Mr Queen included car allowance 7k and salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions 30k.
Benefits in kind relate to the provision of health insurance.
On ceasing to be a Director and an employee on 16 May 2012 Mr Queen received pay in lieu of his six months notice period as shown in the table above.
InDecember 2012 3i Investments plc entered into a consultancy agreement with Thames Bridge Capital Limited, a company associated with Mr Queen, pursuant towhich that company provided reports to 3is Board of Directors concerning areas relevant to the Groups business and in which Mr Queen had particular knowledge and expertise.
Thames Bridge Capital Limited completed the consultancy work during the year and was paid a total of 293k, comprising a fee of240k plus VAT and out-of-pocket expenses.
It is not anticipated that any further work will be commissioned from Thames Bridge Capital Limited.
Salary and fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors include fees used to purchase 3i shares.
In addition to the fees shown above, Mrs Wilson retained directors fees of 65k from Legal & General Group Plc and Mr Borrows retained directors fees of 61k from The British Land Company PLC and 60k from Inchcape plc.
The above awards are Performance Shares granted subject to performance 4.
The performance condition for Performance Shares granted in 2011 and 2012 conditions save for the 30 November 2011 award to Mr Borrows which was is measured over a three-year performance period and is based on annualised a recruitment award in recognition of awards forfeited on leaving previous three-year Total Return on Equity as shown in the table below.
Vesting is subject to continued service and to the clawback onEquity is equivalent to growth in net asset value with dividends deemed policy, but is notsubject to a performance condition.
The award vested as to reinvested.
This performance condition was chosen to align executive one-third on 17 October 2012 when the price of a share was 2.22 and will Directors longer-term incentives to growth in the Companys net assets vest as to a further one-third on 17 October 2013 and as to the balance on recognising that this is a key driver of shareholder return.
The gains on long-term share awards made by the highest Annualised three year total return on equity % of award vesting paid Director and by the Directors in aggregate in the year were 380k 2011: nil.
Save to the extent they lapsed earlier in the year awards held by Mr Queen 10% 20.0% lapsed on the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012.
The performance condition for Performance Shares granted in 2009 and 11% 27.5% 2010 compares the growth in value of a shareholding in the Company over 12% 35.0% three years averaged over a 60-day period with the FTSE 100 Index both with dividends re-invested as shown in the table below.
This performance 13% 45.0% condition was chosen to align executive Directors longer-term incentives 14% 60.0% tothe Companys share price performance compared to the FTSE 100 Index.
15% 75.0% Growth in value for Company versus FTSE 100 asdescribed above % of award vesting 16% 85.0% Below the FTSE 100 Zero 17% 92.5% Same as the FTSE 100 35% 18% 100.0% 8% p. a. above the FTSE 100 100% Between these levels awards vest pro rata.
Between these levels, awards vest pro rata.
To the extent the performance condition is satisfied, then subject to continued service and the clawback policy, shares are released as to 50% on the third anniversary of grant, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 25% on the fifth anniversary.
The Committee determines the fulfilment of the performance conditions based on calculations designed to be appropriate to the particular condition.
No options were granted to or exercised by Directors during the year.
Options were granted for nil consideration.
The market price of ordinary shares in the Company at 31 March 2013 was 3.16 and the range during the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 was 1.69 to 3.25.
No gains were made by the highest paid Director 2011: nil or by the Directors in aggregate 2011: nil.
Save to the extent they lapsed earlier in the year options held by Mr Queen lapsed on the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012.
Options were granted subject to a three-year performance condition relating to annual percentage compound growth in net asset value per share with dividends re-invested, relative to the annual percentage change in RPI, as shown below.
The performance conditions were chosen to align executive Directors longer term incentives to shareholders interest in net asset value growth and was altered over time to reflect changing market conditions.
For NAV growth between NAV growth required NAV growth required minimum and maximum Award granted for minimum vesting % vesting for maximum vesting % vesting vesting levels Since 31 March 2005 RPI 3 percentage points 30% RPI 8 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata In year to 31 March 2005 RPI 3 percentage points 50% RPI 8 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata Before 31 March 2004 RPI 5 percentage points 50% RPI 10 percentage points 100% The grant vests pro rata Share Incentive Plan Participants in the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan SIP invest up to 125 per month from pre-tax salary in ordinary shares Partnership Shares.
For each Partnership Share the Company grants two free ordinary shares Matching Shares which are normally forfeited if employment ceases other than on retirement or for other qualifying reasons within three years of grant.
Dividends are reinvested in further ordinary shares Dividend Shares.
Held at Held at Held at 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 31 March 2013 Held at Held at Held at or cessation or cessation or cessation 31 March 2012: 31 March 2012: 31 March 2012: if earlier : if earlier : if earlier : Partnership Shares Matching Shares Dividend Shares Partnership Shares Matching Shares Dividend Shares Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B Ord B J S Wilson 2,347 344 4,694 690 256 4 3,030 344 6,060 690 549 4 M J Queen until 16 May 2012 3,038 975 6,074 1,998 704 20 3,105 975 6,208 1,998 704 20 Notes: 1.
From 1 April 2013 to 1 May 2013, Mrs Wilson acquired a further 37 Partnership and 74 Matching ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares were awarded in the year at prices between 1.72 and 3.13 per share, with an average price of 2.27 per share.
B shares held within the plan result from the bonus issues of B shares in 2006 and 2007.
Shares within the SIP are held by a nominee on behalf of participants.
The nominee exercises the votes on such shares on the participants instructions.
84 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors remuneration report Pension arrangements Mrs Wilson was a member of the 3i Group Pension Plan, a defined benefit contributory scheme, in the year to 31 March 2013.
Pension accrual ceased for all members with effect from 5 April 2011 although a link to final salary is maintained for existing accrual up to the date of leaving the Company.
Further details of the Plan are set out in note 9 to the financial statements on pages 102 to 104.
Transfer note 1 note 2 note 3 note 1 note 2 note 4 note 4 Difference value at the Increase in Directors own Increase in between end of the accrued contributions accrued transfer year of the pension excluding pension values at increase in excluding AVCs paid including Transfer Transfer start and accrued Complete inflation Total into the plan inflation value of the value of the end of the benefits years of during the accrued during the during the accrued accrued accounting during the pensionable year to pension at year to year to benefits at benefits at year, less year less Age at service at 31March 31 March 31March 31March 31 March 31 March Directors Directors 31 March 31 March 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 contribution contribution 2013 2013 000 p. a.
The Plan closed to future accrual on 5 April 2011 and pensionable service ceased at this date.
No member contributions were paid into the Plan during the year.
The increase in accrued pension shown reflects the difference between deferred pensions on leaving, payable from age 60.
The pension shown is a deferred pension payable from the Normal Retirement Age of 60.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996.
Additional voluntary contributions are excluded from the above table.
Mrs Wilson joined the 3i Retirement Plan, a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, with effect from 6 April 2011.
During the year theCompany made contributions of 55k to this plan in respect of Mrs Wilson.
Directors service contracts The main terms of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served in the year were as follows: Dates of Mr S A Borrows: 17 May 2012 contracts Mrs J S Wilson: 1 October 2008 Mr M J Queen: 31 March 2009 Notice period by the Director Six months Company policy is that Executive Directors notice periods should not normally exceed by the Company 12 months one year.
Save for these notice periods the contracts haveno unexpired terms.
Termination There were no provisions for compensation of Executive Directors on early termination save that: payments a MrBorrows and Mr Queens contracts entitle the Company to terminate employment without notice subject to making 12 monthly payments thereafter equivalent to monthly basic pay and benefits less any amounts earned from alternative employment: and b all Directors contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services.
Their appointment letters provide for no entitlement to compensation or other benefits on ceasing to be a Director.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 85 Arrangements relating to Mr Queens previous responsibilities Mr Queen, who resigned as Chief Executive on 16 May 2012, had interests in arrangements relating to his previous roles as Managing Partner, Infrastructure and Managing Partner, Growth Capital.
Scheme interests, being the percentage of the relevant pool of M J Queen investments in respect of which the participant is entitled to Until 16 May 2012 Amounts co-invested participate in the realised profits Amounts Accrued receivable in value of End of respect of scheme Invested Total period over scheme interests during the invested to As at Awarded in Forfeited in As at which interests in asat period 16 May 2012 1 April 2012 period period 16 May 2012 interests period 16May2012 000 000 % % % % may vest 000 000 Global Growth Co-invest 200608 plans 97 0.023 0.023 31.07.08 nil nil Pan-European Growth Capital 200506 0.44 0.44 31.03.10 nil 268 Infrastructure 200506 0.69 0.69 16.05.10 nil nil Primary Infrastructure 200506 0.53 0.53 19.08.10 nil 161 Global Growth 200608 plans 0.34 0.34 31.03.11 nil nil Global Growth 0810 18 0.03 0.01 0.02 31.03.13 nil nil India Infrastructure 0710 285 1.00 0.10 0.90 30.09.12 nil nil Notes: 1.
As a result of the cessation of his employment on 16 May 2012, a proportion of Mr Queens interest in the Global Growth 0810 and India Infrastructure 0710 plans was forfeited.
As the Infrastructure 200506 and Global Growth 200608 plans were liquidated during the year, Mr Queens entire interests in these plans terminated.
During the year but after the termination of his employment Mr Queen received 27k from the Pan-European Growth Capital Fund and 5k from theInfrastructure 200506 Fund.
It is anticipated that in the current year Mr Queen will receive a payment of 171k less termination expenses plus a return of acapital commitment of 5k in relation to the Primary Infrastructure 200506 Fund, which will represent his entire interest in that fund which will then terminate.
Accrued values of plan interests are calculated on the basis set out in note 5 on page 99.
Accrued values can increase and decrease with investment valuations and other factors and will not necessarily lead to an actual payment to the participant.
Accrued values as at 16 May 2012 shown above are the same as the accrued values as at 31 March 2012 since as at 16 May 2012 no revaluation of the scheme interests had taken place.
Audit The tables in this report including the notes thereto on pages 81 to 85 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Asquith Chairman, Remuneration Committee 15 May 2013
