Risk 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 51 Furthermore, the Treasury Management Committee was In addition, we have designed new dashboards which track our discontinued, and replaced with a Treasury Transactions Committee financial performance and progress against our new strategic of the Board to provide formal approval for specific treasury related objectives at aGroup level and for each of our business lines.
Day-to-day treasury matters are handled by the Finance Thesedashboards are now updated and reported monthly.
Going Director and Group Treasurer, within the limits delegated by the Board.
forward, these will help the Group Risk Committee assess each risk Key treasury and funding risks continue to be overseen by the Group and highlight whether risks are increasing or decreasing.
The Operational Risk Forum was similarly that this process will continue to be refined, and for example, we are discontinued and its responsibilities assumed by the Group Risk currently reviewing our risk management approach in the context of Committee.
Finally, the responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility the European AIFM Directive, which comes into force on 22 July 2013.
Committee were assumed by the Brand and Values Committee.
The Group Risk Committee continues to meet quarterly, to coincide with meetings of the Executive Committee.
The quarterly Group risk review has recently been enhanced with a clearer link between the identified risks and the Groups strategic objectives, as well asthemonitoring of key financial and strategic metrics which are indicators of those risks.
This includes the application of the vintage control policy and associated analysis and asset allocation data.
Overview of risk management process and governance structure Audit and Compliance Board Committee nn Determines Groups risk appetite as part nn Receives reports from the Director ofstrategy setting.
ofInternal Audit on the Groups risk management processes and system nn Overall responsibility for maintaining ofinternal controls.
asystem of internal control that ensures nn Receives reports from the Director aneffective risk management and oversight Conflicts Committee ofGroupCompliance on regulatory process operates across the Group.
nn Dedicated Brand and Values Committee to nn Deals with conflict issues.
monitor reputational risks and brand issues.
nn Updated at each meeting on the outputs nn Meets periodically and as required.
ofthe latest Group Risk Committee meeting with the opportunity to contribute views orraise questions.
nn Meets four times a year.
Chief Executive Investment Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Committee nn Considers risk in context of individual nn Principal decision-making body in respect nn Delegated responsibility for risk portfolio investments and divestments.
management and oversight across the Group, reflecting the Boards appetite nn Meets as required.
nn Quarterly Group Risk Committee forrisk and any specific limits set.
meetingscoincide with Executive Committee meetings.
nn Maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups risk exposure andassociated mitigation or response planbased on risks identified.
nn Meets at least four times a year to consider the Group risk review, including adequacy Key ofrisk mitigation and controls.
Committees of the Board nn Chairman provides update at each meeting Committees of the Chief Executive of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Independent review of conflict issues Delegated responsibility for risk management and oversight Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee
