Corporate responsibility 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57 In the year to 31 March 2013 our reported emissions were Environmental, Social and 2000.29tCO2e.
3i reduced total carbon emissions by 951.87 tCO2e from the year 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012, a reduction of 32%.
Governance standards This significant reduction in emissions can be attributed principally tothe overall reduction in staff numbers during the year, a reduction Risk management inbusiness travel, closure of offices and rationalisation of services 3is risk governance framework provides a structured process to inthe Palace Street office.
For example, the Palace Street office has oversee the identification, assessment and approach to mitigation achieved significant carbon reductions by lowering building emissions inrespect of those risks which could materially impact the Groups by 58% 549.03 tCO2e, mainly due to the removal of gas sources from financial performance and or the achievement of the Groups strategic the site in May 2012.
For a breakdown of emissions by source for the objectives.
This includes risks with an environmental, social and or year to 31March 2013, please visit the CR section of our website at governance aspect.
Our principal risks and risk management process are explained on 3is employees attach importance to working for a company which pages 50 to 55 ofthisReport.
Details can also be found in the Pillar 3 acts responsibly on environmental matters.
Since the beginning disclosures onourwebsite, www.
The most significant of2013, our Palace Street office has taken part in a sustainability corporate responsibility related risks arising from our investment project in conjunction with our landlords, Land Securities, and Planet activity relateto environmental, ethical, governance and social issues.
First, anorganisation which supports businesses in improving their We believe that companies with high environmental, social and sustainability performance.
The programme has a different focus governance standards ESG are typically better run, have fewer each month, covering the environmental impacts of how we source our business risks and ultimately deliver better value.
food, consume water and energy in our buildings and use transport.
Responsible investing Transparency We are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investing RI We take an open and straightforward approach to doing business.
and have embedded RI policies and procedures in our investment and OurAnnual and Half-yearly reports and our website, www.
com, in our portfolio company review processes.
The Board, through both provide significant disclosure on 3i and on our underlying investments.
its Brand and Values Committee and its Audit and Compliance Committee, receives regular updates on RI policy and procedure, Prompt payment code and compliance with it, as well as broader reputational risks arising During the year, 3i became a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
The Code encourages and promotes best practice between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit The environment topaying their suppliers within clearly defined terms, and to ensuring We endeavour to minimise our impact, wherever possible, and have there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
established procedures to reduce our environmental footprint.
InLondon, which is where the majority of our employees are based, thecarbon intensity per employee has reduced by 57% compared with the previous year.
Our procedures include: nn powering off lights, computers and other equipment during evenings and weekends: nn recycling office waste: and nn rationalising business travel through a set of clear guidelines.
Ourtravel policy clearly states that people should only travel whenthe use of alternate conferencing methods does not meet business needs.
