Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 65 Statutory and corporate governance information As a consequence, gearing, which is a function of both net debt Principal activity of the Group and asset values, is expected to be in the range of 0%30% for the The Group is an international investor focused on private equity, immediate future.
It should be noted that subject always to the infrastructure and debt management, investing in Europe, Asia formal gearing limit in the Companys investment policy statement set andthe Americas.
out above the actual gearing level at any point in time will fluctuate, since it is a function of, among other things, asset valuations and the Group investment policy timing of investment and realisation cash flows.
The Board anticipates 3is investment policy, which as a closed-ended investment fund that the Company may be in a net cash position during certain periods itisrequired to publish, is as follows: for example during periods of high valuations where realisations might beexpected to exceed investment but may have net debt in nn 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders other periods for example where valuations are relatively low or after with quoted access to private equity, infrastructure and debt periods of low return flows.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt investments in businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Tax and investment company status The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset classes in The Company is an investment company as defined by section 833 which 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities are identified.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved Proposed investments are assessed individually and all significant theCompany as an investment trust under section 1158 of the investments require approval from the Groups Investment Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Company directs its affairs to Committee.
Overall investment targets are subject to periodic enable it to continue to remain so approved.
reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed to monitor exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors and Regulation asset classes.
3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments Limited, nn 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of 3iEurope plc and 3i Nordic plc, subsidiaries of the Company, are investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority under aswell as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
theFinancial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Where applicable, Inaddition, although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for certain Group subsidiaries businesses outside the United Kingdom asset allocations, no more than 15% by value of 3is portfolio can are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
Management arrangements nn Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the Company shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to andcertain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for these investment shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
3is gearing management and other services, for which regulatory authorisation depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of isrequired, provide for fees based on the work done and costs market movements and other factors on the value of its incurred in providing such services.
These contracts may be investments.
The Board takes this into account when, as required, terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
itsets a precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has therefore set the maximum level of gearing at 150% and has set no minimum 3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and administrative level of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed the 150% services, for which no regulatory authorisation is required, under maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the gearing ratio contracts which provide for fees based on the work done and costs to below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
3i is committed incurred in providing such services together with a performance fee to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
During the year, the Company has continued its approach of conservative balance sheet management.
The Board recognises Results and dividends the current need to manage liquidity and gross and net debt levels Total comprehensive income for the year was 373 million 2012: on a conservative basis such that the Company should be well-placed 656 million.
An interim dividend of 2.7p per ordinary share in to deal with external events, take advantage of opportunities and respect of the year to 31 March 2013 was paid on 9 January 2013. manage its investment and divestment activities in a flexible manner.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.4p per ordinary share The Board has decided that net debt should not currently exceed be paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2013 to shareholders on the 1billion and may at times be significantly below this limit.
Register at the close of business on 21 June 2013.
The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee Trust haswaived subject to certain minor exceptions dividends declared by the Company after 26 May 1994 on shares held by the Employee Trust.
Business review The Groups development during the year to 31 March 2013, its position at that date and the Groups likely future development are detailed in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review andthe Business review.
66 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Statutory and corporate governance information Share capital Directors conflicts of interests The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2013 Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the comprised 971,405,127 ordinary shares of 73 19 22p each and Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors 4,635,018B shares cumulative preference shares of 1p each, toapprove conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest representing 99.99% and 0.01% respectively of the Companys provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify issuedshare capital by nominal value.
potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Ordinary shares The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2012 Directors indemnities was 971,069,281 ordinary shares and increased over the year to 31March 2013 by 335,846 ordinary shares on the issue of shares As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company tothe trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
At the Annual has maintained Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions General Meeting AGM on 29 June 2012, the Directors were as defined under relevant legislation for the benefit of the authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 ordinary shares in the Companys Directors throughout the year.
Company representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 16 May 2012 until the Companys AGM Employment in2013 or 28 September 2013, if earlier.
This authority was not The policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity in the selection, exercised in the year.
training, career development and promotion of employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether B shares disabled or otherwise.
The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April 2012 was 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities equally and fairly 4,635,018 B shares.
No B shares were issued in the year to 31 March and provides facilities, equipment and training to assist disabled 2013.
At the AGM on 29 June 2012, the Directors were authorised employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary torepurchase up to 4,635,018 B shares in the Company until toensure support to job applicants who happen to be disabled and theCompanys AGM in 2013 or 28 September 2013, if earlier.
who respond to requests to inform the Company of any requirements.
Thisauthority was not exercised in the year.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment, efforts would be made to retain them in their current employment Directors interests orto explore the opportunities for their retraining or redeployment In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
Financial support is also provided by 3i to support disabled and their connected persons inthe shares of the Company in respect employees who are unable to work, as appropriate to local of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under FCA marketconditions.
2 R as at 31 March 2013 are 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its shown below: employees is through employee appraisals, informal consultations, Ordinary shares B shares team briefings, and staff conferences.
Managers throughout 3i have acontinuing responsibility to keep their staff fully informed Sir Adrian Montague 70,772 0 of developments and to communicate financial results and other J P Asquith 5,000 0 matters of interest.
This is achieved by structured communication S A Borrows 8,238,245 0 including regular meetings of employees.
A R Cox 17,400 0 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has an employee assistance R H Meddings 20,960 0 programme which provides a confidential, free and independent W Mesdag 339,053 0 counselling service and is available to all staff and their families M G Verluyten 2,500 0 intheUK.
J S Wilson 65,949 1,038 3is employment policies are designed to provide a competitive reward package which will attract and retain high quality staff, whilstensuring The share interests shown for Mrs J S Wilson include shares held that the relevant costs remain at an appropriate level.
inthe 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
The share interests shown Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc Remuneration exclude share option and long-term share awards detailed in the Committee, comprising 3i Group plc non-executive Directors.
From 1 April 2013 to 10 May 2013, Mrs J S Wilson became interested in an additional 111 ordinary shares 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is financial and other and there were no other changes to Directors share interests.
performance conditions and market practices in the countries in which it operates.
All employees receive a base salary and are Debentures also eligibleto be considered for a performance-related annual As detailed in note 21 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2013 variable incentive award.
For those members of staff receiving the Company had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc higher levels of annual variable incentive awards, a proportion of such 2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
awards are delivered in 3i shares, vesting over a number of years.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 67 Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in 3i share Statement of Directors responsibilities schemes to encourage employees involvement in 3is performance.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Investment executives in the Private Equity business line may also the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United participate incarried interest schemes, which allow executives Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards to share directly inany future profits on investments.
Similarly, IFRSs which have been adopted by the European Union.
investment executives inthe Infrastructure and Debt Management Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group business lines may participate in asset-linked and or fee-linked financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly incentive arrangements.
Employees participate in local state or the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the company pension schemes asappropriate to local market conditions.
In preparing the Group financial statements theDirectors: Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year to 31 March 2013 a s elect suitable accounting policies in accordance with International amounted to 197,500.
Of this approximately 30% was to match staff Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting charitable giving and fundraising activities and approximately 70% Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: was devoted to charities supporting the young, the disadvantaged b present information, including accounting policies, in a manner andeducation.
thatprovides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 2013 no information: donations were made to political parties or organisations, or c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific independent election candidates, and no political expenditure requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand wasincurred.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: Policy for paying creditors d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any The Group became a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code in material departures disclosed and explained in the financial the year and its policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with the statements: and termsand conditions of the relevant markets in which it operates.
Expensesare paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper theyearend.
The Group had trade creditors outstanding at the accounting records are kept which are sufficient to show and explain yearend representing on average 18.9 days purchases.
the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that Significant agreements the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
As at 31 March 2013 the Company was party to the following They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are agreements that are subject to a renegotiation period on a change reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and of control of the Company following a takeover bid: toprevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In accordance a 450 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, theDirectors dated 30 June 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: LloydsTSB Bank plc and 12 other banks.
Under this agreement, a t he financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable the Company would be required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc, accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, as agent for the banks, within five days, of any change of control.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the This would open a 20-day negotiation period to determine whether undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Majority Lenders as defined in the agreement would be willing to continue to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms.
b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development Failing agreement and if so required by the Majority Lenders, and performance of the business and the position of the Company amounts outstanding would be repayable and the facility and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as cancelled: and awhole together with a description of the principal risks and b 50 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement uncertainties that they face.
dated 29 September 2011, between the Company, 3i Holdings plc The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed in the and Nordea Bank Finland PLC London Branch.
Under this Board of Directors and Executive Committee section.
agreement, the Company would be required to notify the lender, within five days, of any change of control.
This would open a 20-day negotiation period to determine whether the lender would be willing to continue the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement, and if so required by the lender amounts outstanding would be repayable and the facility cancelled.
