Corporate governance statement The Companys approach to corporate Meetings of the Board governance The Board is required to meet a minimum of four times a year.
Acalendar of seven scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at the The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards start of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close involvement ofcorporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the UK inthe operation of the Company and in making investment-related Corporate Governance Code published by the UK Financial Reporting decisions, a number of further meetings are arranged from time to time Council in June 2010 and subsequently revised in September 2012 at shorter notice.
During the year, there were seven main meetings of the Code, a copy of which is available from theFinancial Reporting the Board of Directors.
In addition to these meetings, there were two Council website www.
uk, subject to the FCAs Listing Rule full Board meetings arranged at short notice and two meetings of 15.6.
6 2, and to the extent applicable to the Company, given that it has specically formed committees to execute decisions arising from full no Executive Directors.
The Code applies to all companies with a Board meetings.
TheDirectors attendance at main Board meetings is Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, irrespective oftheir set out in the tablebelow: country of incorporation.
Number of The Company complied with all the applicable provisions of the Directors attendance year to 31 March 2013 meetings Attendance Code forthe financial year ending 31 March 2013.
Peter Sedgwick 7 7 The Board has adopted a code of Directors dealings in ordinary shares, Philip Austin 7 7 which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings contained in the Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking Sir John Collins 7 7 all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Model Florence Pierre 7 7 Code by the Directors.
Charlotte Valeur 7 7 Paul Waller 7 7 The Boards responsibilities and processes Steven Wilderspin 7 7 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy and The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: planning and takes all investment decisions, taking into account the review of the Companys strategy, including market positioning, advice it receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board has put in geographic and investment strategy and the Companys return place an organisational structure to ensure the efficient performance objectives: ofits responsibilities.
This is further described under the heading Internal control.
approval of the Companys budget and review of financial resources: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved the Companys capital structure, balance sheet efficiency and taxation toitand the Audit Committee for decision.
These include: arrangements: approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual approval of investment and divestment decisions, including making operating budget: a commitment to Dalmore and the sale of Alpha Schools: approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements review of portfolio asset performance: and changes in the Companys accounting policies or practices: selection and approval of Rothschild as the Companys Corporate Adviser: approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the Company review of counterparty exposure and limits: or its regulated status: review of the Companys foreign exchange hedging strategy: approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser and annual review and continued approval of key agreements with review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating to service providers, including the Investment Advisory Agreement the infrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress: with3i Investments plc: review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser on the approval of major changes in the nature of business operations valuation of investments: orinvestment policy: review of the Companys Investor Relations programme, share price approval of investments and divestments: performance and shareholder perceptions following the release of financial information: approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the performance and plans for each portfolio company: review of the risk management arrangements, internal controls and the investment approval process: review of the adequacy of internal control systems, including thoseoperated by independent service providers: and review of the performance of the Investment Adviser and of key service providers to the Company: appointments to the Board and determination of terms of appointmentof Directors.
overview of the remuneration, incentives and retention structure in place for key team members of the Investment Adviser: extension of the Investment Advisory agreement to give the Company further exclusivity with the Investment Adviser: review of the independence of Directors: review of any updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Codes of Practice for Certied Funds in Jersey and the requirements for the Company: and updates to UK and Jersey law and their impact on the Company.
54 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance During the year, the Directors met with the CEO of a portfolio The Chairman companyto gain further insight into that companys industry dynamics The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the Board in the determination and challenges, as well as to understand how that companys ofits strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman management team is responding to those challenges.
In addition, isresponsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its the Chairman represents the Company on the advisory board of the effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as a India Fund and participated in two meetings of that board in India in manager the equivalent of a director of 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg the past year, which were attended by the Investment Advisers team in Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. which are India and representatives of the management teams of the India Funds subsidiaries of the Company and is the Companys appointed member investee companies.
to the Advisory Board for the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional remuneration for these roles.
The Chairman facilitates Information theeffective contribution of all the Directors and constructive relations Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner between the Companys advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and inpreparation for Board and committee meetings.
These papers are the Directors.
The Chairman maintains direct links with the Companys supplemented by information specically requested by the Directors advisers and ensures that regular reports from them are circulated to from time to time.
the Directors to enable the Directors to remain aware of shareholders views.
The Chairman ensures, with the co-operation of the Investment Performance evaluation Adviser, that a programme of effective communications is available for shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Independent Board Director, when shareholders so wish.
During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees.
This was an internal exercise Senior Independent Director following the full external review conducted by Tracy Long of Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with the Boardroom Review, an independent specialist consultancy, in 2012.
Code, any concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
The evaluation this year considered, amongst other factors, the balance The contact details of the Senior Independent Director are freely of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company of Board members.
available on the Companys website or through the Company Secretary.
It also considered the operational effectiveness of the Board.
As part of the process, the Board also reviewed how it fullled its responsibilities, Directors the matters reserved to the Board and delegations to other committees.
As part of the review: The Board comprises the Chairman and six non-executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 50. the Chairman led a review of the performance of the Board AllDirectors served throughout the year under review, with the anditscommittees, as well as of individual Directors: exception of Paul Masterton, who was appointed with effect from the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairman: and 4 April 2013 see page 50. the chairman of the Audit Committee led a review of the No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such AuditCommittee.
The Directors were appointed as non-executive Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum of Association of The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board and theCompany or at subsequent Board meetings.
Their appointment Audit Committee respectively.
All Board members, as well as a number was confirmed by letters dated 29 January 2007 in the case of Peter of members of the Investment Adviser, gave personal views and Sedgwick and Philip Austin, 27 March 2007 in the case of Paul Waller, feedback was presented to the Board.
20 September 2007 in the case of Steven Wilderspin, 27 November Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted that the 2008 in the case of Sir John Collins, 28 September 2009 in the case results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of satisfaction with of Charlotte Valeur and 15 July 2010 in the case of Florence Pierre.
the operation of the Board and interaction with the Investment Adviser.
Appointment letters for Directors were updated following the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2011 in order to bring them The following recommendations were also made: into line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
to review the information requirements of the Board in relation The letters were refreshed in November 2012 to reect the best totheperformance of portfolio companies: and practice guidelines published in December 2011 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The current letters are to broaden the Boards knowledge of key portfolio assets through dated 28 September 2011 in the case of Florence Pierre and further meetings with management team members of Steven Wilderspin, 7December 2011 in the case of Sir John Collins, portfoliocompanies.
13 December 2012 in the case of Peter Sedgwick and 18 March 2013 in the case of Paul Waller.
AllDirectors were re-elected at the 2012 AGM.
Investment Adviser Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, and in accordance The Board has a Management Engagement Committee comprising with Section B.
7.2 ofthe Code, the Chairman will propose the re-election allBoard members, with the exception of Paul Waller, the 3i Group or election of those Directors seeking re-election or election at the nominee Director, which carries outthe annual evaluation of the forthcoming AGM.
Investment Adviser required under theListing Rules and which Charlotte Valeur completed her three-year term as a non-Executive manages the relationship with the Investment Adviser on behalf of the Director of the Company on 28 September 2012 and was re-appointed Company.
Following its assessment of the Investment Adviser, the for a further period to end on 31 March 2013.
Paul Masterton was Directors believe that the continued appointment of the Investment appointed as a non-Executive Director with effect from 4 April 2013.
Adviser on the terms set out on page 81 is in the interest of Hisappointment was confirmed by a letter dated 19 March 2013. shareholders, based on the performance of the Investment Adviser.
Copies of the appointment letters are available from the Company Secretary uponrequest.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 55 Corporate governance statement The Directors appointment can be terminated, without compensation The Boards committees for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The Board is assisted by various standing committees which report Underthe Articles, their appointments can inter alia be terminated regularly to the Board and reviews the membership of these onnotice from the other members of the Board, and also on ceasing committees on a regular basis.
tobe a Director if they fail to be re-elected at any Annual General Meeting.
The Boards committees all have clearly dened terms of reference which are available at www.
The terms of In addition to fullling their legal responsibilities as Directors, the reference of the Audit Committee, of the Nominations Committee, of Directors are expected to bring an independent judgement to bear on theRemuneration Committee and of the Management Engagement issues of strategy, performance, investment appraisal and standards Committee provide that no one other than the particular committee ofconduct.
They are also expected to ensure high standards of chairman and members may attend meetings, unless invited to attend nancialprobity on the part of the Company.
As well as papers by the relevant committee.
The terms of reference are available from forBoard meetings, the Directors receive monthly management the Companys website.
accounts, reports and information which enable them to scrutinise theCompanys performance against agreed objectives.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is charged Directors independence withreviewing the scale and structure of the non-executive Directors All the Directors, with the exception of Paul Waller, who has been a remuneration, and for the year under review was constituted by all 3iGroup nominee to the Board since the Companys IPO in March 2007, theindependent non-executive Directors Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, are considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Steven Wilderspin, Sir John Collins, Charlotte Valeur and Florence Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of Pierre.
All members served throughout the year.
Paul Masterton was theDirectors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance appointed to the Remuneration Committee when he joined the Board in and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
The Remuneration Committee had two meetings in the year was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting to 31 March 2013, attended byall members.
A report from the during or at the end of the financial year in relation to the business Remuneration Committee is set outon page 59. ofthe Company.
As a non-independent Director and not a member of the Management Nominations Committee Engagement Committee, Paul Waller did not participate in the Boards The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick, also evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser.
comprises Philip Austin and Sir John Collins.
The Committee held five meetings in the year Training and development to31March 2013, attended by all members.
The Company has developed a framework within which training The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal and transparent forDirectors is planned, with the objective of ensuring Directors procedure for the appointment of new Directors, including interviewing understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, however, are alistedcompany and the business environment of the Company.
The Nominations Committee can avail itself AllDirectors are required to continually update their skills and ofthe services of external search consultancies.
During the year, maintaintheir familiarity with the Company and its business.
theNominations Committee recommended the appointment of Paul Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business are Masterton as Director.
This appointment was supported by Thomas maderegularly to the Board, usually by the Investment Adviser.
&Dessain, an external search consultancy which is independent fromthe Company.
On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman andCompany Secretary, following which appropriate briengs As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience,  of Directors, the Companys business and especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has theCompanys procedures and, where appropriate, briengs on totake account of the residence of Directors, as the majority of theinfrastructure market are arranged.
The Company provides Directors have to be non-resident in the UK.
For practical reasons opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the relating to the conduct of the Companys affairs, most Directors, Companys business and the industry it operates in by meeting senior including Paul Masterton, the most recent appointment, are resident members of the investment advisory team who in turn can arrange, inthe Channel Islands.
asrequired, visits to portfolio investments or support teams.
The Committee has been reviewing succession planning, to ensure that This year, the Directors also received presentations on aspects of the processes and plans are in place with regards to Board appointments infrastructure market and met with atransaction specialist in the dealing with succession.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out below.
infrastructure market who has advised onseveral key recent infrastructure transactions in the European market.
The Board also Diversity received briengs on legal updates in relation tochanges to laws and 3i Infrastructure had two women on its Board of seven non-executive regulations in Jersey and the UK.
Directors throughout the year under review.
The Directors, and specically members of the Audit Committee, The Companys policy is to have a Board with a diverse range of skills attended a number of seminars, meetings and conferences on and professional backgrounds.
To that end it will continue to ensure that governance and regulation, including the introduction of the Alternative in making appointments to the Board it, and any executive search rm Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Chairman attended that assists it, will consider a wide range of candidates from different a number of externally facilitated meetings on corporate governance.
backgrounds while making appointments solely on merit.
The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal orother professional advice about the performance of their duties.
56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance The Audit Committee monitors the Companys policy for non-audit Report of the Audit Committee services to ensure that the provision of such services by the external The Audit Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, in the year under auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
review also comprised Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, Florence Pierre Inorder to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the and Charlotte Valeur.
chairman of the Audit Committee is required to approve all non-audit The qualications of the members of the Audit Committee are set work undertaken, for the Company and its subsidiaries, by the auditors, out in thebiographical details of the Directors on page 50.
All the in advance and as a general rule the auditor will not be engaged members ofthe Audit Committee are independent non-executive oninvestment-related work.
However, exceptions to this may be Directors.
TheBoard is satisfied that the Audit Committee chairman, permitted if i the Company is acting in a consortium, ii the audit Steven Wilderspin, has recent and relevant financial experience and rmis considered a specialist in the sector, or iii the auditor is best is a qualied Chartered Accountant.
placed to undertake the work through its knowledge of the Companys During the year to 31 March 2013, there were five meetings of the financial systems, procedures and internal controls.
Audit Committee, attended by all members.
The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, provided non-audit services for fees During the year, the Audit Committee undertook its responsibilities in totalling 17,000 for the year to March 2013 2012: 17,000.
In previous accordance with its Terms of Reference, as detailed on the Companys years, and in line with the Companys policy, Ernst & Young LLP also website.
Most of the Committees time was spent on the following areas: provided non-audit services to support the transaction activity conducted by the Group during the year in relation to certain portfolio reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control environment companies.
The fees for these services are generally borne by the oftheCompany and the Companys compliance with its underlying portfolio companies, and therefore are not included in the : expenses of the Group.
No such fees were paid to Ernst & Young this reviewing and recommended to the Board significant accounting year 2012: nil.
matters and the accounting disclosures in the half yearly and annual financial statements of the Company including: Investment Committee matters of judgement in relation to infrastructure asset valuation.
As outlined on page 54, the Board as a whole acts as the This year, the areas examined included: the level of discounts applied InvestmentCommittee.
in valuation models, with a particular focus on those used for AWG and Oystercatcher, where changes were proposed: and Management Engagement Committee the valuation of Indian assets in the light of the significant The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Peter Sedgwick macroeconomic and asset-specic challenges that they face.
and, in the year under review, comprised Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, The Committee discussed these matters with the Investment Steven Wilderspin, Charlotte Valeur and Florence Pierre.
Paul Masterton Adviser and the auditor, including the auditors infrastructure joined the Management Engagement Committee upon his appointment valuation specialist: as a Director on 4 April 2013. an assessment of whether the annual report as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is business model and strategy and advised the Board accordingly.
toconsider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the The Committee paid particular attention to the way the Boards continued appointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best strategic update and consequent changes to the Companys return interestof the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons objectives were communicated in the report: foritsrecommendation.
The Committee also reviews the terms oftheInvestment Advisory Agreement.
overseeing the Companys relations with its external auditors, including assessing the conduct and effectiveness of the audit During the year, there were five meetings of the Management process and the auditors independence and objectivity, Engagement Committee, attended by all members.
In those meetings, recommending the auditors reappointment and approving the the Committee monitored the overall relationship and among specic auditors fees: topics it: reviewing the Companys compliance with its regulatory obligations reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance inJersey, including the implementation of, and review of compliance of listed infrastructure investment companies, including an analysis with, the Codes of Practice for Certied Funds which came into force ofthe terms of their advisory agreements and fees charged: on 2 April 2012: and monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance conducting a review of the risk assessment process in the Company.
against the Companys targets and general market conditions: The Committee reported to the Board on how it has discharged its reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and relevance of the responsibilities and reported to the Board the key matters arising information provided to the Board, including reviews of portfolio ateach meeting.
company performance: and The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit reviewed non-investment services provided by the Investment Adviser.
process during the year, considering performance, objectivity, independence and relevant experience, and concluded that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the Companys auditors should be continued.
In structuring its review, the Committee used a practical framework based on a guide issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys auditors since inception in 2007 and the audit has not been re-tendered.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors noted that the Company continues to benefit from the insight and knowledge that its auditors have of the Investment Advisers processes and controls in relation to the Company.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 57 Corporate governance statement Key procedures designed to provide effective internal control for The Company Secretary theyear under review and up to the date of this Report include: The Company has appointed State Street Secretaries Jersey Limited the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements as Company Secretary.
specically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out Secretary and legal advisers to the Company, who advise the Board, information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Articles investments and their performance: of Association and the schedule of matters reserved for the Board the Board considers and approves the Companys strategy and oritsduly authorised committees for decision provide that the approves abudget on an annual basis: appointment and removal of the Company Secretary would be amatterfor the full Board.
reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board The Board reviewed the Company Secretarys performance and reviewed in detail: duringtheyear.
the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments Relations with shareholders include detailed appraisals and due diligence that are reviewed by the Board as appropriate: The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a good relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare valuations with shareholders on strategy and corporate governance as required.
and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Shareholders are offered the opportunity tomeet with the Chairman Companys activities and review its performance: and with the Senior Independent Director.
the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit departments Senior members of the investment advisory team also meet with continually review the Investment Advisers operations.
The Audit theCompanys principal institutional shareholders to discuss the Committee has access to relevant sections of their reports.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers and other half-yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all advisers on shareholder issues.
associated financial reporting processes that are reviewed by the Board as appropriate: and At the AGM, business presentations are made by the Chairman and senior members of the investment advisory team.
The chairman of the the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the Board of Audit Committee is also available to answer shareholders questions.
any changes in accounting standards which may impact the Companys The Notice of AGM for 2012 was dispatched to shareholders not less significant accounting policies or any other statutory requirements than 20 working days before the meeting.
At that meeting, voting on which may subsequently impact the financial statements.
each resolution was taken on a poll and the results were made available The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as it is on the Companys website.
not deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, although this is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Portfolio management and voting policy In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to seek Principles and processes to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the extensive The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, which include: experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
Inrelation to quoted equity investments, the Companys policy is to a planning framework which incorporates a Board approved exercise voting rights on matters affecting the interests of the Company.
medium-term strategy: formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the Internal control potential financial impact and likelihood of identied risks and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups own system possible new risk areas: ofinternal control.
The Audit Committee performed its annual review of the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions to the Board.
thereview of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learned: Theinternal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material onan annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, misstatement or loss.
In assessing the effectiveness of the Groups analysisof variances, scrutiny of key performance measures internal controls for the year, the Board made reference to the andregular reforecasting: requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.
regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume support services to its key service providers and their contractual of liquidity and record the level of compliance with the Companys obligations encompass the implementation of systems of internal funding objectives: control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and well dened procedures governing the appraisal and approval of risk management.
The Audit Committee of the Company receives investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval reports on the control systems and their operation from its main procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular service providers, and is responsible for reviewing these reports post-investment reviews: and fordetermining the effectiveness of internal controls.
an Audit Committee which considers significant control matters and In addition, the Board regularly reviews the principal risks faced receives relevant reports from key service providers compliance, by the Company and any entries in the Companys risk log.
control or internal audit functions.
58 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013
