Corporate governance report Anita Frew joined the Board in 2004 and will have served for In this section 9 years by the date of the AGM.
The Board intends to appoint UK Corporate Governance Code 56 a further independent non-executive director in 2014 and, to Board composition 56 enable a smooth transition and transfer of knowledge, Anita has Board effectiveness 56 been asked to continue as a director until 30 September 2014.
Relationships with shareholders 57 Taking into consideration Anitas independence of character and Board evaluation 57 judgement, her asset management knowledge and significant Training and induction 57 major PLC board experience, the Board is of the opinion that Risk management 58 Anita remains an independent non-executive director.
Board committees 59 Board changes The Board has given careful consideration to its structure and UK Corporate Governance Code its balance and is continuing to refresh Board and committee The FRC published a new edition of the UK Corporate membership in an orderly manner.
Rod MacRae was appointed Governance Code in September 2012 that applies to reporting as an executive director on 1 October 2012.
Jutta af Rosenborg periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012 the New Code.
joined the Board as an independent non-executive director on The Group chose to adopt the new provisions for the year under 18 January 2013.
Akira Suzuki was appointed to the Board on review.
At the time of writing this annual report, the Listing Rules 29 August 2013, through the business and capital alliance with of the London Stock Exchange had not been updated to recognise Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation.
Akira replaced the issuance of the New Code and, therefore, we remain obliged Kenichi Miyanaga who resigned from the Board on 29 August to report on our compliance with the previous version of the UK 2013.
Giles Weaver retired from the Board on 17 January 2013.
Corporate Governance Code which was issued in May 2011 A consequence of this series of changes is that we do not comply the Code.
with the Code requirements on the number of independent The Group has complied throughout the year with both the Code directors.
The Board remains of the opinion that its size and and the New Code except where noted in the report below.
This composition should reflect the needs of the business and seeks report describes Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, to achieve this in compliance with the Code.
As mentioned, a explaining how the Group has applied the further appointment of an independent non-executive director principles of the Code.
Board effectiveness Board composition Summary of Board meetings The Board currently comprises the Chairman, seven non-executive The Board met eight times during the year to review financial directors and six executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined and have matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting of been approved by the Board.
The Chairman, Roger Cornick, Group goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Comprehensive is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring board papers, comprising an agenda and formal reports and its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive, briefing papers, are sent to directors in advance of each meeting.
Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day to day management of the Group.
Anita Frew continues as the Senior Independent Directors are continually updated with written and oral reports, Director, providing a sounding board for the Chairman and from senior executives and external advisors.
Topics include serving as an intermediary for the other directors, where the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory necessary.
Further information regarding the experience of environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, the Board is given in their biographies on pages 50 to 53. environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
All directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
In addition, the Board regularly receives briefings and presentations from senior executives, local management and Independence external advisors covering a wide range of topics relevant to the In considering director independence, the Board has taken Groups business.
Recent examples include updates on the Retail into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Of the Distribution Review regulation and the Groups methodology to non-executive directors, Akira Suzuki, and before him Kenichi running and overseeing projects.
Miyanaga, has been appointed by a significant shareholder, The Board visits the key overseas offices to meet local Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, and he is therefore management and clients and to obtain an understanding of not considered to be independent.
The Board, having given the local business environment.
The Board visited the Singapore, thorough consideration to the matter, considers the other Philadelphia, New York and Oslo offices during the year and six non-executive directors to be independent.
directors also visited other overseas offices on an individual basis to meet with local management and staff.
56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance On each of these overseas visits, the Board has received The Group continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity presentations from local management on local and regional to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent business conditions and 'at desk' presentations from the local Director, the chairman of the remuneration committee and any business teams.
Whilst in Singapore, several members of the new directors.
Board took advantage of the location to visit either the Bangkok, The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of Tokyo or Sydney offices in order to meet with local staff proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and clients.
and any other general meetings.
The Senior Independent Director Details of the individual directors attendance at Board meetings is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or are shown in the table below: Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact Maximum is inappropriate.
possible Meetings Conflicts of interest attendance attended The Board confirms that it has considered and authorised any Roger Cornick 8 8 conflicts or potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the Groups existing procedures and has also implemented specific Martin Gilbert 8 8 guidelines to address any potential conflicts that may arise Anita Frew 8 7 in the future.
The Board has specifically considered the other Julie Chakraverty 8 8 appointments held by directors, details of which are contained Andrew Laing 8 8 in their biographies on pages 50 to 53, and has confirmed that it believes that each is able to devote sufficient time to fulfil the Rod MacRae 8 8 duties required of them under the terms of their contracts or Richard Mully 8 8 letters of appointment.
Jim Pettigrew 8 8 Board evaluation Bill Rattray 8 8 A formal process has been established, led by the Chairman, Anne Richards 8 8 for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Jutta af Rosenborg 5 5 appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they Akira Suzuki 1 1 continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their Simon Troughton 8 8 respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
Hugh Young 8 8 This years evaluation has again been undertaken internally with Kenichi Miyanaga 7 7 the Chairman carrying out interviews with each member of the Giles Weaver 3 3 Board.
This was subsequently followed up with discussions of the results at subsequent Board and committee meetings.
The non-executive directors also met without the Chairman Relationships with shareholders present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the Chairmans The Group communicates regularly with institutional shareholders, performance, having taken into consideration the views of analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and the executive directors, and the results of this meeting were interim reports and interim management statements are widely subsequently discussed between the Senior Independent distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Director and the Chairman.
Additionally, the Chairman and the Groups performance and these documents, together with copies non-executive directors held a meeting without the executive of investor presentations, are also made available on the website.
directors present at which the executive directors performance The Chief Executive and Finance Director report at each Board was discussed.
meeting on investor relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research Training and induction published on the Group.
Investors are encouraged to attend the New directors appointed to the Board receive a formal and Annual General Meeting at which they have an opportunity to tailored induction, which includes meetings with relevant ask questions.
members of the existing senior management to help them gain The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all directors a detailed understanding of the Group and its activities.
The two and the chairmen of each of the Board committees are available new non-executive directors undertook induction training, which to answer questions.
provided them with a wide range of input, including copies of past meeting papers, the current strategy and details of the Groups processes and procedures.
com 57 Corporate governance report continued The Board, its committees and each director has access to respond quickly to emerging risks within the Group and the independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys external business environment: and expense, as well as to the advice and services of the include procedures for reporting any control failings or Company Secretary.
weaknesses to the appropriate level of management The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is together with the details of corrective action.
responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring The risk management committee oversees the system of controls good information flow between the Board, its committees and within the day-to-day operations of the Group and monitors management, and assisting with directors continuing professional the Groups culture, and clarity of responsibility of roles over risk development needs.
Directors are also advised, at the time of their areas.
The committee reports on and monitors critical risks, issues appointment, of the legal and other duties and obligations arising and high priority projects.
It serves to reconcile the key risks and from the role of a director of a listed company and are reminded issues identified by the business with those raised by the Groups of these duties and obligations on a regular basis.
This provides assurance to the Board that are obliged to undertake a minimum of 35 hours of continuing risks and issues are adequately escalated and managed.
professional development annually, of which at least 21 hours must comprise structured learning.
Membership of the committee comprises executive directors and senior management from all business functions.
The committee The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of meetings are also attended by the heads of the primary control legal action against its directors.
The roles of these functions are as follows: Risk management the compliance team monitors compliance with regulatory Risk management is implemented from the top down, starting requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates: at Board and GMB level, through to the individual operational the legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group departments.
The audit and risk committees support the Board complies with statutory requirements globally: in discharging its oversight duties with regard to internal control, risk management and capital adequacy.
These committees the business risk department is responsible for the also have responsibility for ensuring that the Group strategy is management and oversight of operational risk: appropriate and aligned with the Boards risk appetite, as set out the market risk team covers the risk profiles within the in a formal Board statement.
various investment strategies as well as the credit risk associated with the counterparties with whom Aberdeen The attitudes to risk agreed at Board and committee discussions conducts its business: and are fed through to the planning processes for the individual business units.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal the internal audit function reviews the effectiveness of all Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, a process required controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of by the UK regulator, which summarises the risk management the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly framework and regulatory capital requirements of the Group.
auditing the controls operated by management.
This is closely linked to the Groups strategic planning and capital The heads of business risk and market risk each report directly to management exercises.
the Group Head of Risk while the heads of legal and compliance Internal control report to the General Counsel.
The General Counsel also reports The risk management framework includes a sound system of to the Group Head of Risk who, while also a director of the Group, internal controls that are designed to: reports to the Chief Executive and also attends and reports at identify and appraise all risks related to achieving the Groups meetings of the risk and the audit committees.
objectives including all business, operational, reputational, The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Executive as financial and regulatory risks: well as having unrestricted access to the chairman of the audit committee.
manage and control risk appropriately rather than eliminate it: More information on the risk management framework and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material specific risks facing the Group can be found on pages 42 to 45. misstatement or loss: be embedded within the business processes and form part of the Groups culture, which emphasises clear management responsibility and accountabilities: 58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
