Board of directors 2 Roger Cornick Martin Gilbert Chief Executive Chairman Background and experience Background and experience Before coming to Aberdeen, Roger was with Perpetual PLC Martin trained as a chartered accountant prior to moving into for over 20 years where, latterly, he served as deputy chairman.
investment management with an Aberdeen firm of solicitors.
He Roger has over 30 years experience of marketing and distribution is a founding director and shareholder of the Company.
Martin is a in financial services and is currently a trustee of the River and director of a number of Aberdeen managed investment trusts and Rowing Museum.
Martin is also a member of the Financial Services Trade and Investment Board, the PRA Practitioner Panel and is a Date of appointment member of the Monetary Authority of Singapores International Roger was appointed to the Board as an independent nonAdvisory Panel.
executive director on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Chairman on 22 January 2009.
Roger is also chairman of Date of appointment the nominations committee.
Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 July 1983.
Other appointments Other appointments The River and Rowing Museum trustee FirstGroup PLC chairman British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC non-executive director 1, 2, 3, 4 Anita Frew Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Anita has been a plc director for sixteen years and a plural non-executive director of industrial and financial companies for thirteen years.
Anita is currently chairman of the responsible business committee of Lloyds Banking Group and a member of its audit and risk committees.
Prior to this, she was a non-executive director of Northumbrian Water, executive director at Abbott Mead Vickers PLC, director of corporate development at WPP Group plc, and held various investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident and Royal Bank of Scotland in her early career.
Date of appointment Anita was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2004.
Other appointments Victrex PLC chairman IMI plc senior non-executive director Lloyds Banking Group plc non-executive director 50 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance 1, 4 Julie Chakraverty Rod MacRae Independent Non-Executive Group Head of Risk Director Background and experience Background and experience Julie was formerly a board member of UBS Investment Bank and Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including regulatory a non-executive director of the insurance company Paternoster.
compliance, legal services, business and market risk.
Rod Within UBS, she held a number of global leadership positions with joined Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of a specialised background in risk management and fixed income.
She started her financial career 20 years ago at JP Morgan, after He graduated with an MA in Economics from the University graduating with first class honours in Economics from St Johns of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered College, Cambridge.
Rod is a director of a number of Date of appointment Group subsidiary companies.
Julie was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2011.
Date of appointment Other appointments Rod was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2012.
Spirit Pub Company PLC non-executive director Amlin plc non-executive director 3, 4 Andrew Laing Richard Mully Deputy Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Richard was formerly the co-founder and managing partner of Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility for private Grove International Partners LLP, a major real estate private equity equity investment.
Andrew was subsequently appointed Chief firm.
He spent much of his 30 year career in financial services as an Operating Officer.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, Andrew practiced investment banker.
Richard graduated with first class honours in commercial law and was a private equity fund manager Economics from University College London and also holds an in Edinburgh.
He graduated from the University of Aberdeen with an MA in Date of appointment Politics and International Relations, and an LLB.
Andrew serves Richard was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2012 and is on the board of the Investment Management Association and chairman of the risk committee.
is also a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
Other appointments Date of appointment Hansteen Holdings PLC senior non-executive director Andrew was originally appointed to the Board in 1987 and then ISG PLC non-executive director again on 23 January 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chief Alstria Office REIT-AG supervisory board member Executive in 2008.
St. Modwen Properties PLC non-executive director aberdeen-asset.
com 51 Board of directors continued 1, 4 Jim Pettigrew Anne Richards Independent Non-Executive Chief Investment Officer Director Background and experience Background and experience Jim was formerly chief executive of CMC Markets Plc.
Prior to In addition to her role as Chief Investment Officer, Anne is Head joining CMC, he was chief operating officer and finance director of Aberdeen Solutions, and the EMEA region.
Prior to Aberdeen, at Ashmore Group plc, chief financial officer of ICAP Plc from she worked for Merrill Lynch and Edinburgh Fund Managers, 1999-2006 and group treasurer at Sedgwick Group plc.
Jim is where she was chief investment officer and joint managing vice president of the Council of the Institute of Chartered director.
Anne graduated with first class honours in Electronics and Accountants of Scotland and is an LLB.
Electrical Engineering from the University of Edinburgh, and has an MBA from Insead.
Anne is also a director of a number of funds Date of appointment of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds managed by the Jim was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2010 and is Aberdeen Group.
Anne is a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
chairman of the audit committee.
Date of appointment Other appointments Anne was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust Public Limited Company chairman Other appointments Crest Nicholson Holdings plc senior non-executive director The Council of the Duchy of Lancaster trustee and chairman of remuneration committee The Scottish Chamber Orchestra trustee RBC Europe Limited deputy chairman The Court of the University of Edinburgh lay member AON UK Limited non-executive director esure Group plc non-executive director Hermes Fund Managers Limited chairman of risk committee and non-executive director Clydesdale Bank plc chairman of audit committee and non-executive director 1 Bill Rattray Jutta af Rosenborg Finance Director Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Background and experience Bill joined the Group in 1985 as Company Secretary and Jutta was formerly Chief Financial Officer for ALK-Abello A S, a subsequently became Group Financial Controller.
Prior to global pharmaceutical company, headquartered in Denmark.
Jutta joining the Group, Bill trained as a chartered accountant has spent most of her career in finance, having originally qualified with Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen, qualifying in 1982.
Bill as a chartered accountant with Deloitte before establishing her is a director of a number of Group subsidiary companies.
own auditing and consulting business.
Jutta has a masters degree in business economics and auditing from the Copenhagen Date of appointment Business School.
Bill was appointed to the Board on 31 January 1991.
Date of appointment Jutta was appointed to the Board on 18 January 2013.
Other appointments Auriga Industries A S non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee Zealand Pharma A S non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee Det Danske Klasselotteri A S non-executive director 52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance Akira Suzuki Hugh Young Non-Executive Director Global Head of Equities Background and experience Background and experience Akira joined Aberdeen through the business and capital alliance Hugh is Global Head of Equities and Managing Director of with Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation.
Akira has a Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited.
He founded Singapore Bachelor of Law degree from Keio University.
Following graduation based Aberdeen Asia in 1992 and has been managing the Groups Akira joined The Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corporation and has Asian equities since 1985.
Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics undertaken a wide variety of roles, primarily in asset management.
Hugh is a director of a number of Group Akira is currently Executive Officer and General Manager in the subsidiary companies and Aberdeen-managed investment trusts Fund Research and Development Division and is based in Tokyo.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Akira was appointed to the Board on 29 August 2013.
Hugh was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2011.
Other appointments AMP Capital Holdings Limited 2, 3, 4 Simon Troughton Independent Non-Executive Director Background and experience Simon was a partner at Cazenove and Company Limited before moving to Fauchier Partners in 2003 where he became chief operating officer.
He qualified as a chartered surveyor having read Land Economy at Cambridge University.
Date of appointment Simon was appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009 and is chairman of the remuneration committee.
Other appointments Redburn Partners Holding Company Limited non-executive director 1 Member of the audit committee.
2 Member of the nominations committee.
3 Member of the remuneration committee.
4 Member of the risk committee.
