Group management board The Group management board GMB comprises the six executive directors, plus the following members of senior management: John Brett Ken Fry Global Head of Distribution Chief Operating Officer John joined Aberdeen on 1 November 2011 as Global Head Ken graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in Computer of Distribution.
He joined from Scottish Widows Investment Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition of Fredericks Partnership where latterly he was head of distribution.
John Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT Manager.
He was appointed was previously with Aberdeen until 2003 as Head of Legal.
to the GMB in 2006 as Chief Technology Officer and to his John is a qualified lawyer, having graduated LLB from the current role in 2008.
Gary Marshall Gordon Brough Head of Americas General Counsel & Deputy Group Head of Risk Gary was appointed Head of the Americas in January 2010.
Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the He is Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management Inc. in Groups legal function having previously been the partner the US and president of Aberdeens US mutual fund range, responsible for the Groups affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens Aberdeen Funds.
Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of LLP.
Prior to its merger with Maclays, Gordon had helped found Prolific Financial Management in 1997 and has had experience specialist law firm, The City Law Partnership.
He was appointed in many aspects of Aberdeens operations, having been based in General Counsel and Deputy Group Head of Risk in 2012.
London and Edinburgh prior to moving to the US.
He graduated Gordon is qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
with a BSc Hons in Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot Watt University in Edinburgh and is a qualified actuary.
Kerry Christie Pertti Vanhanen Global Head of Human Resources Kerry is Global Head of Human Resources and was appointed Group Head of Property to the GMB in 2010.
She joined Aberdeen in March 2000 and Pertti joined the Group in 2002 following Aberdeens was appointed Head of Human Resources in October 2003. expansion into Finland.
Prior to joining Aberdeen, Pertti had Kerry graduated from Robert Gordon University with a BA acted as managing director for property asset management in Public Administration and a postgraduate diploma in subsidiaries for both Pension Ilmarinen and Pension Varma in Personnel Management and is a chartered member of CIPD.
During his years with Aberdeen, Pertti has headed the Nordic and European direct property business and recently acted as the Head of Fund management Property division.
Brad Crombie Pertti holds an MBA and is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Global Head of Fixed Income Chartered Surveyors FRICS.
Brad re-joined Aberdeen in 2012 after starting in the Groups graduate trainee programme twelve years ago.
In the interim, he worked at Bank of America Merrill Lynch as a managing director, running the banks non-financial corporate and high yield credit research team for the EMEA region.
In addition to his fixed income leadership role, Brad is also the Global Head of High Yield.
He graduated from McGill University with BA and MA degrees and read history at the University of Cambridge.
54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
