goveRnAnce RepoRt of the noMinAtion coMMittee We hAve MAde good pRogRess in secuRing the AppointMent of A neW chief finAnciAl officeR And A neW independent non-executive diRectoR.
geRAld coRBett, chAiRMAn Role of the Committee Action plan The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying Among other things, we envisage: and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates continuing to support the development of the executive team: for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has written and terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
continuing to ensure that we plan for the evolution of the Activities during the year Non-Executive Directors over the medium term to maintain During the year and in accordance with its terms of reference, the appropriate mix of skills.
the members of the Nomination Committee engaged with Close Redgrave Partners which has no other connection with the We have conducted a thorough and transparent appointment Company, an executive search firm, to assist with and process for the recommendation of two new directors to the recommend potential candidates for the Chief Financial Officer Board and have made good progress.
The Nomination Committee also engaged with The Zygos Partnership which has no other connection with the Company to provide a successor Non-Executive Director.
Gerald Corbett The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and a Non-Executive Nomination Committee Chairman Director Fru Hazlitt, guided the Committee throughout the recruitment process for both roles.
Comprehensive candidate search briefs were agreed and circulated to the executive search firm.
Thereafter a shortlist of candidates was circulated.
After careful consideration of a range of quality candidates, a number of shortlisted candidates were invited for meetings as appropriate.
After these meetings, a review of the candidates took place and the preferred candidates were recommended for appointment to the Board.
Throughout the process, regular evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and capability were taken into account and the candidates were considered on merit against objective criteria.
The chosen Chief Financial Officer candidate, Alexander Gersh, was immediately available as he had left his previous company, NDS, following its sale to Cisco Systems, Inc. and he took up his role at Betfair on 3 December 2013.
The chosen Non-Executive Director, Peter Jackson, joined the Board on 24 April 2013. corporate.
