goveRnAnce RepoRt of the Audit coMMittee the coMMittee continues to dRive A BetteR undeRstAnding of Risk Appetite, toleRAnce And MAnAgeMent AcRoss the Business in line With the chAnges in the Business stRuctuRe to focus on AchieveMent of the stRAtegic oBjectives And sustAinABle long-teRM gRoWth of the Business.
iAn dyson, independent non-executive diRectoR Overview Audit Committee process The Audit Committee is the body which carries out the functions The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined required by DTR 7.1.
3 Audit Committees and their functions.
in its terms of reference, through a series of meetings throughout The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found review the Companys public statements on internal control on the Companys website corporate.
com about-us and corporate governance compliance prior to their corporate-governance.
consideration by the Board: The Committee commissions reports, from external advisers, review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, Group Internal Audit, or Company management, either after misconduct and control weaknesses and to consider consideration of the Companys major risks or in response the Companys response to any such occurrence: to developing issues.
The Committee meets privately with the review managements evaluation of any change in internal external auditors and the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk controls over financial reporting: Management.
The external auditors meet the Director of Group Internal Audit & Risk Management in private throughout the review with management and the external auditors any year and liaise with Company management in considering financial statements required under UK legislation before areas for review.
submission to the Board: During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function: review and recommendation of interim and full year assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, financial results: resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditors, the scope and cost of the external audit: including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: non-audit work carried out by the external auditors and trends pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees auditors and the fees to be paid for that work together with policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence: the monitoring of the external auditors independence: the scope of the annual internal audit plan, internal audits oversee the process for dealing with complaints received of reference, its resourcing and external support: by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls the external auditors interim and full year reports: or auditing matters and the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group accounting or auditing matters: and Internal Audit: and monitor the integrity of the financial statements, and formal the effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, of their reappointment: reviewing significant judgements contained therein.
42 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing Non-audit services procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures: The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit work which is in compliance with the the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit: Code.
The external auditors may carry out certain specified management representations granted to the external auditors non-audit work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the and the Companys procedures to ensure all relevant audit Committee.
Any other work for which management wishes to information has been disclosed: utilise the external auditors must be approved.
The pre-approved services include the following: major changes in the Groups internal controls: the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local the Groups framework for the identification and control of statutory accounts: and major risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the annual assessment of control effectiveness: certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
compliance with the code of ethics: The external auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit corporate governance developments: services that would compromise their independence, would violate review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors and practices: or would lead a reasonable third party to regard the objectives of the proposed non-audit service as being inconsistent with the the status of material litigation involving the Group: external audit.
The policy defines the types of permitted and not the Committees own terms of reference, membership permitted services.
In exceptional circumstances relating to urgent and its effectiveness: and transactions or services deemed not to be of a material nature, the engagement of the auditor for non-audit work must be detailed reviews of strategy, security, disaster recovery, approved in advance by the Committee Chairman where the fee insurance, treasury, related parties transactions, financial is in excess of 50,000.
Fees up to 50,000 must be approved authorisation controls, financial personnel succession planning by the Chief Financial Officer.
and Directors and senior officer expenses.
The Companys financial statements are reviewed by the The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees payable in Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
respect of audit services is appropriate for a group of its size and that an effective audit was conducted during the year.
The fees External auditors independence for audit and non-audit services are disclosed in Note 3 to the The Committee has primary responsibility for making Financial Statements on page 76. recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee maintains an ongoing oversight of the external audit appointment and Ian Dyson recommends that the auditors, KPMG Audit Plcs KPMG Independent Non-Executive Director election be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
KPMG was appointed as external auditor, following a competitive tender in 2003.
Any decision to open the external audit to tender will be taken on the recommendation of the Committee based on a review of the effectiveness of the external auditor.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, the external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The lead audit partner has been rotated this year.
The Committee is satisfied that there are no relationships between the Company and the auditor, its employees or its affiliates that may reasonably be thought to impair the auditors objectivity and independence.
Private meetings were held with KPMG to ensure there were no restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items that the auditors did not wish to raise with the Executive Directors present.
The Committee reviews and agrees the engagement letter from KPMG and verifies their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by KPMG to ensure that their objectivity was not impaired.
