goveRnAnce coRpoRAte goveRnAnce stAteMent We hAve A RoBust goveRnAnce stRuctuRe.
Which continues to deliveR sustAinABle vAlue.
geRAld coRBett, chAiRMAn The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance Directors in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as issued The following were Directors of the Company during the year: by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 which applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and Director Role Date appointed is available at www.
Gerald Corbett Non-Executive Chairman 3 January 2012 The Board has reviewed the content of the Code and will report Breon Corcoran Chief Executive Officer 1 August 2012 on compliance through this Statement which incorporates Alex Gersh Chief Financial Officer 3 December 2012 the Directors Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers Review, Financial and Operational Review, Principal 2 Stephen Morana Interim Chief Risks and Uncertainties and the Directors Remuneration Report Executive Officer 25 September 2006 by reference.
1 Mike McTighe Senior Independent The Board considers that the Company complied with the main Non-Executive Director 17 October 2008 principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 April 1 Ian Dyson Independent 2013 with the following unintentional exception.
Provision C. 3.1 Non-Executive Director 1 February 2010 of the Code states that the Audit Committee must be comprised of at least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
There 1 Josh Hannah Non-Executive Director 21 February 2002 was a period during the year, between Denise Kingsmill leaving 1 Fru Hazlitt Independent the Board and Peter Jacksons appointment, where the Non-Executive Director 25 March 2005 Audit Committees membership fell to two Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Baroness Denise Independent 3 Kingsmill Non-Executive Director 1 February 2011 Board composition 4 Peter Jackson Independent As at 30 April 2013, the Board comprised the Chairman, Non-Executive Director 24 April 2013 two Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors and one non-independent Non-Executive Director.
1 In certain cases the appointment date reflects the Directors appointment The biographical details of all Board Directors as at 27 June 2013 prior to the Companys admission to The London Stock Exchange on 27 October 2010. are set out on pages 30 and 31 and these include their main 2 Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 3 December 2012. external commitments outside of the Company.
3 Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 25 October 2012.
During the year various changes were made to the composition 4 Director appointed to the Board of Betfair Group on 24 April 2013. of the Board which is explained in further detail opposite.
com investor-relations annual-reports 35 goveRnAnce coRpoRAte goveRnAnce stAteMent Division of responsibilities The composition of the Board In accordance with main principle A.
2 of the Code, there is In accordance with main principle B.
1 of the Code, the Board and a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company its Committees have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, between the Board and executive responsibility for the running independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them of the Companys business.
No one individual has unfettered to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Board experience as at 30 April 2013 The role of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic Balance of Non-Executive Directors direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore and Executive Directors approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance Chairman 1 of past investments and maintains an overview and control of Executive Directors 2 the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors Independent Non-Executive Directors 4 the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and Non Independent Non-Executive 1 compliance and ensures that the necessary financial and human Directors resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board has established and adopted a schedule Length of tenure of of matters which are reserved for its attention and which Non-Executive Directors are published on the Companys corporate website at: corporate.
Included in its responsibilities are: 0-3 years 2 3-6 years 2 determining the overall business and commercial strategy: 6-9 years 1 identifying long-term objectives: 9 years 1 reviewing the annual operating plan and budget: Gender split of Directors determining the basis of allocation of capital: and considering all matters relating to major Group policy and regulatory policy.
The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the appointment of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Male 7 Directors have been defined in writing.
Female 1 The Board may delegate authority in the following instances: Nationality determination and review of the terms of reference for Board Committees and receive reports on their activities: approval of lists of delegated authority to approve expenditure, investments and other matters as the Board may determine: British 6 approval of the division of responsibilities between the Irish 1 Chairman and the CEO and of delegated authorities American 1 for the CEO, CFO and other senior management: and granting powers of attorney.
The Executive Committee is responsible for reviewing the performance of the business and supporting the CEO in performing his duties.
Biographies of members of the Executive Team can be found on pages 30 to 31.
36 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Role of the Senior Independent Director Role of the Chairman Mike McTighe is the Senior Independent Director and is available In accordance with main principle A.
3 of the Code, Gerald to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved Corbett as Chairman is responsible for the leadership and through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO or CFO.
effectiveness of the Board, including ensuring that the Board is In addition, Mike is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
run smoothly and for ensuring that appropriate communication His biography can be found on page 31. is maintained with shareholders.
He is available to meet with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its The Chairman ensures that the Board has the right Board.
The Board considers Mike McTighe, Ian Dyson, Fru composition and that the debate is effective and at the Hazlitt and Peter Jackson to be independent as they are free right level, involving all members, and that appropriate from any business or other relationship which could materially conclusions are drawn.
For Betfair, it is vital that the influence their judgement and they represent a strong source Chairman is accessible and can play an important role of advice and independent challenge.
in providing support and wise counsel to the CEO and wider management team.
The Chairman effectively Josh Hannah, is not deemed to be independent under the challenges when required and takes a helicopter view provisions of the Code.
He has served as a director for over of the business.
The Chairman has a key role in instilling 10 years.
He has informed the Board of his intention to step behaviours appropriate to a public company environment down in the coming months.
Under the terms of his letter and is able to maintain relationships with shareholders of appointment, his appointment will expire in October 2013. and other stakeholders, as necessary.
The Chairman All of the Directors biographies can be found on pages 30 and has a proven track record as a plc Chairman and currently 31 and all will stand for re-election or election in accordance acts as Chairman to two other public quoted companies.
Gerald Corbetts biography can be found on page 31.
Other than their fees, which are disclosed on page 53, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
When prospective Non-Executive Role of the Chief Executive Officer Directors are considered for appointment, the Nomination Breon Corcoran was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Committee will take into account their other responsibilities on 1 August 2012.
Prior to this, Stephen Morana had in assessing whether they can commit sufficient time to their responsibility for this role.
The CEO has responsibility for prospective directorship.
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive management of the Group, including being The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards responsible for: developing and proposing the Group Committees are formally considered on an annual basis.
strategy, annual plans and commercial objectives to the Board, having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its Company Secretary shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders: Martin Cruddace is the Group Director, Legal & Corporate managing the Groups risk profile in line with the extent of Affairs and Company Secretary.
The Company Secretarys risk identified as acceptable by the Board and to ensure responsibilities include, in accordance with main principle B.
5 appropriate internal controls are in place: ensuring the of the Code, ensuring good information flows to the Board development needs of the executive directors and senior and its Committees and between senior management and management are identified and met and ensuring succession the Non-Executive Directors.
The appointment and removal planning: effective communication with shareholders and of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
that appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed The Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman, to the market, with issues escalated promptly to the Market for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and Disclosure Committee.
for assisting the Directors with their professional development.
This includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of external courses where required.
com investor-relations annual-reports 37 goveRnAnce coRpoRAte goveRnAnce stAteMent Board attendance Annual re-election and appointments During the year, there were 10 scheduled Board meetings In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association excluding a one day off-site meeting which considered the the Company and provision B.
7.1 of the Code which states Groups strategy.
The table below shows attendance levels at the that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year: annual election by shareholders, all current Directors will submit the numbers in brackets confirm how many Board meetings each themselves for re-election on an annual basis at the Companys Director was eligible to attend during the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Alexander Gersh and Peter Jackson will stand for election scheduled Committee Committee Committee AGM at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Further information Current Directors 10 4 8 3 is set out in the Notice of Meeting.
who served during the year Appointments to the Board Gerald Corbett 10 10 3 1 In accordance with main principle B.
2 of the Code, there is Breon Corcoran 7 7 1 a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Alex Gersh 4 4 Mike McTighe 9 10 4 8 3 1 Succession planning Ian Dyson 9 10 4 7 1 The Board considers the quality, performance and likely successors for its Executive Director and senior management Josh Hannah 10 10 8 3 1 population on a regular basis.
The Board normally considers these Fru Hazlitt 9 10 1 matters formally in December each year.
However, given that Peter Jackson 1 1 Breon Corcoran was appointed in August 2012 and Alex Gersh in December 2012 it was considered unnecessary to have a formal succession planning meeting in December 2012.
Former Directors It intends to resume its review process in December 2013. who served during the year Service contracts and letters of appointment Baroness Denise Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out Kingsmill 3 5 2 2 1 in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53.
The Chairman Stephen Morana 4 6 1 and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Attends Committee meetings at the invitation of the respective which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Committee Chairman.
Company during normal business hours and at the place of the All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations until the end of the meeting.
at the meetings in addition to receiving minutes of previous Independent advice meetings.
Their understanding of the Groups business is Members of the Board may take independent professional enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits advice in the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the Companys businesses.
Separate strategy meetings and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, the Head meetings with senior executives are also held throughout the of the Legal Department and the Companys legal advisers and year.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they external auditors.
were provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and CEO.
There are 10 Board meetings and a one day off-site meeting currently scheduled for 2013-2014.
38 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The last formal assessment with an external assessor was Training and development carried out in 2010 and included a review of issues relating In accordance with main principle B.
4 of the Code, there is to the Board as a whole, the performance of the Chairman comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors and and the priority of tasks.
The process included the completion regular updating, tailored to individual requirements and including of a detailed questionnaire by the Board Directors and included guidance on requirements of, and Directors duties in connection an opportunity for each Director to make comments.
The areas with the Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well as other covered in the questionnaire were the Boards role and its relevant legislation.
The Board as a whole is updated as necessary organisation, the Board dynamic and relationships, quality in light of any governance developments as and when they occur.
of information flows and decision-making, Board committees, Conflicts of interest performance monitoring and the Boards priority tasks.
Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external The report was subsequently discussed between the Chairman Non-Executive Director appointment with the Companys prior and the rest of the Board.
approval as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Board diversity The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare We, as a Board, are committed to ensuring a broad mix of situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those gender, age, nationality, experience and skills throughout the Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
business and that the composition of the Board itself is based The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting on a range and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and and considering conflicts continues to operate effectively.
merit and remains appropriate for a business of this size.
The Board has noted the contents of the Davies Report on Women Shareholder relations on Boards in February 2011 and Code revision to strengthen The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the the principle of board diversity.
The Company currently has performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally six Non-Executive Directors, one of whom 17% is female.
updates the market on its financial performance at least four times a year, at the half year and full year results in December and June Committees and respectively, the interim management statements in March and There are four main Committees of the Board which are outlined September.
The content of these updates is posted and webcast on page 40.
Each Board Committee has written terms of on the Companys website, together with general information reference approved by the Board, which are available on the about the Company so as to be available to all shareholders.
com investor-relations The Company has a regular programme of meetings with its major corporate-governance.
institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Head of Investor Relations regularly reports to the Board the views of major shareholders in respect of the Company, and the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available and meet shareholders on request and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend to answer questions.
Board effectiveness evaluation Following various changes in the composition of the Board since 2012, including the appointment of a new Chairman and CEO and to allow sufficient time for adjustment due to the changes, a formal assessment of the Board and its performance will be carried out with an external assessor during 2013-2014.
Further, the Chairmans performance assessment will be led by the Senior Independent Director.
com investor-relations annual-reports 39 goveRnAnce coRpoRAte goveRnAnce stAteMent Audit Committee Market Disclosure Committee Ian Dyson has been chairman of the Audit Committee The Market Disclosure Committee considers and decides since 17 February 2010.
Ian has been identified as having upon matters brought to its attention which would be likely significant recent and relevant financial experience and his to give rise to an obligation to make a market announcement biography can be found on page 31.
The other members under the FSA Listing Rules.
Amongst others, it comprises of the Audit Committee, Mike McTighe and Peter Jackson, the CFO Committee chairman, and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Board, the CEO and the CFO attend such meetings at the invitation of the Committees Chairman.
During Executive Committee the year, the Committee met four times.
The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO, consists of the Executive Directors and certain other Further details about the Audit Committee and its activities senior executives.
are included in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages The Executive Committee meets formally approximately 42 to 47. every four weeks.
The Committee assists the CEO who has day to day responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
It develops the Groups strategy and annual Nomination Committee revenue and capital budgets for Board review and approval.
Gerald Corbett has chaired the Committee since March 2012.
It reviews and recommends to the Board any significant investment proposals.
Mike McTighe, Senior Independent Director and Fru Hazlitt, an Independent Non-Executive Director were members of This Committee monitors the financial and operational the Committee during the year.
The Nomination Committee performance of the Group and allocates resources within met three times during the year.
the budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower planning and Further details about the Nomination Committee can be succession plans.
In addition it also ensures that the Groups found on page 41. policy on regulation is fulfilled.
Remuneration Committee Close Mike McTighe has been chairman of the Remuneration The Board is the guardian of Betfair, its reputation and its Committee since June 2009. relationships.
We believe that a robust corporate governance structure helps us to continue to maintain Betfairs reputation Ian Dyson and Fru Hazlitt both also independent and relationships, and to deliver sustainable value.
Non-Executive Directors were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Remuneration Committee met eight times during the year.
Gerald Corbett Chairman Further details about the Remuneration Committee and its activities are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee, which is chaired by Fru Hazlitt, an Independent Non-Executive Director, includes the Group Operations Director and HR Director.
The Committee meets at least four times per year and was established to define, support and monitor the execution of Betfairs corporate responsibility strategy.
Further details of the work of this Committee can be found on pages 20 to 27.
40 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
