106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 30 Audit Committee Report Members of the Audit Committee: David Jeffcoat, Chairman appointed as a member on 22 July 2009, chairman from 25 January 2011 Richard Rae appointed as a member on 17 July 2012 Paul Trickett appointed as a member on 17 April 2013 Hamish Buchan retired on 5 March 2013 The Committee members have been selected to provide a wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The biographies of the Committee members can be found on page 20.
Key Objective: To support the Board in providing effective governance over the Companys financial results, the performance of the external auditor, the quality of internal controls at key third party service providers, business risks and related compliance activities.
Key Responsibilities: The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial statements and the accounting policies adopted, judgemental areas and corporate governance: assessing the Companys key risks, the internal control objectives and controls adopted: monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and investment trust requirements: assessing the effectiveness of the external audit, agreeing the Auditors terms of appointment, including remuneration and determining the independence and objectivity of the Auditor: and considering the provision of non-audit services to be carried out by the Auditor.
The Chairman reports formally to the Board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting on all matters within its terms of reference.
To assist with the various duties of the Committee, the following Annual Plan has been approved: Audit Committee Annual Plan January April July October Annual Report Meetings to be Half Yearly Report KeyRisks & Corporate KeyRisks & FullRisks & including called if required including Controls Governance Controls Controls Matrix judgemental areas, judgemental areas, Compliance going concern expense analysis Provision of nonInvestment Trust letter of and Half Yearly Investment Trust audit services, Status representation, Report Status Self evaluation of including taxation expense analysis announcement the Committee compliance and Annual Report services announcement Basis of Committees Audit Plan Internal Controls Management Fee Terms of Review including Audit meeting Custodians allocation Reference reports from the evaluation of the ControlsReport Auditor Terms of Managers and audit including update Engagement other third parties auditor including fees independence Investment Trust Status 30 Governance Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 31 Audit Committee Report Meetings Meetings are attended by the members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, and, by invitation, representatives of the Secretaries.
Three meetings are typically scheduled each year, although additional meetings are held as deemed necessary.
 LLP PwC, the reporting accountant in relation to the Managers report on their control environment, attended the October 2013 meeting and Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the external auditor, attended the October 2013 and January 2014 meetings.
The Committee operates within terms of reference that have been agreed with the Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on request.
Four meetings were held during the past year and the Committee focused on the areas discussed below.
Financial Reporting The primary role of the Committee is to review the financial reports that are provided to the Shareholders, concentrating on, amongst other matters: the appropriateness of the accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: key risks including safekeeping and valuation of investments and the accounting for special dividends: and areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where there has been substantial discussion with the external auditor.
The Committee considers reports from the external auditor on the preparation and audit of the financial statements and from the Secretaries on this and other relevant matters.
In addition, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Company maintains its investment trust status.
In relation to the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee considered and agreed a number of matters including: a report from the Secretaries that set out the accounting treatment of each special dividend recognised during the period: a report from the Secretaries supporting the continued basis of allocation of the management fee and interest costs 62.5% to capital and 37.5% to revenue : and the ownership and valuation of the investment portfolio as at 31 December 2013.
Going Concern The Committee received a report from the Secretaries on going concern, including guidance published by the FRC, and discussed the liquidity of the portfolio, trading activity, portfolio diversification, the existing debt facility and the continuation vote at the AGM in February.
In particular, the Committee agreed that the renewal or otherwise of the debt facility would not affect the going concern status.
Furthermore, the Committee had received positive feedback from the Companys larger Shareholders, following meetings with the Companys Managers, which suggested that Shareholders would support the continuation vote at the forthcoming AGM.
After due consideration, the Committee concluded it was appropriate to prepare the 2013 Annual Report on a going concern basis and made this recommendation to the Board.
Internal Control and Risks The Committee considered the Managers report on internal controls, including the assurance report issued by PWC, whose responsible director submitted a full report on their work at the October 2013 meeting.
In addition, the Committee received internal control reports from both the Companys custodian and registrar.
The Committee reviewed all three reports and was satisfied that there were no significant issues.
The Committee also considered whether there was a need for an internal audit function.
The Committee concluded that, as the Company has no employees and receives internal control reports, including independent assurance reports, from its key third party suppliers, an internal audit function is still not necessary.
The Committee carefully considered a Summary Matrix of the Companys key risks and mitigating controls at each meeting and, in October 2013, a detailed Matrix of risks and controls.
The Committee enhanced the design and content of the Matrix during the year and believes that it continues to accurately reflect the Boards views of the Companys risks.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 31 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 32 Audit Committee Report Change of External Auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY had been the Companys external auditor since 1990.
Whilst the Committee was satisfied with the quality of the external audit undertaken by EY and that there was no evidence of any lack of independence, the Committee felt it was appropriate to conduct a formal tender exercise.
This decision was supported by subsequent revisions to the UK corporate governance code, which recommends a tender exercise at least every ten years.
Following an assessment of the external audit marketplace, an initial list of six firms was established.
After further consideration by the Committee, Invitations to Tender were sent to three firms, including the incumbent Auditor.
All three tendered for the contract and the Committee met representatives of each firm.
The Committee felt that each firm demonstrated experience of the investment trust sector and the proposed fees were similar.
Taking all relevant factors into account, the Committee agreed that a change of auditor was desirable and the Board approved the recommended appointment of Deloitte as the Companys Auditor effective April 2013.
External Audit The Committee received a detailed audit plan from Deloitte in October, before work started on the 2013 audit.
This plan set out the scope of the audit work, key audit risks, the proposed timetable, full justification for Deloittes independence and the quality of their work, and a formal fee proposal.
All of this was consistent with the tender proposal submitted earlier in the year.
The key risks identified by Deloitte included the valuation and ownership of investments.
The Committee held private discussions with the Auditor to create an additional opportunity for dialogue on any potentially sensitive matters or concerns without the Secretaries being present.
Following completion of the external audit, the Secretaries provided positive feedback to the Committee on the conduct of the audit.
The Auditors also provided confirmation that they had complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on independence.
The Committee has no reason to believe that the Auditors independence has been impaired.
Fees paid to Deloitte relating to audit work amounted to 18,250, excluding VAT, for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: 17,650 paid to Ernst & Young LLP.
Taking into account the experience of the audit partner and staff at Deloitte and the quality of the work undertaken during the audit of the Annual Report, the Committee is satisfied with the external audit.
As a result it recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte as the Companys Auditors for the 2014 financial year.
The Board supported this recommendation and a proposal will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-Audit Services No fees have been paid to Deloitte for non-audit work in the year ended 31 December 2013.
However, fees of 3,850 were paid during the year to EY, the previous external auditors, relating to the completion and submission of the corporation tax return, including iXBRL formatted accounts.
The Committee is satisfied that the nature and extent of the work did not impair their independence as external auditor in any way.
Committee Evaluation The Board conducts a formal annual review of the Committees effectiveness, using an evaluation questionnaire.
The outcome was positive with no significant concerns expressed.
David Jeffcoat Audit Committee Chairman 28 January 2014 32 Governance Report 2013
