106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Both the AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available from the AICwebsite at www.
The Board considers that reporting in accordance with the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provision relating to: the role of chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant, as the Company is an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below, where appropriate.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are determined by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision of the Board has been adopted.
The Board of Directors comprises five non-executive Directors of which Professor Marsh acts as Chairman.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to provide investment management, secretarial, registrar, and custodial services to the Company.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these firms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board carefully considers the various guidelines for determining the independence of non-executive Directors, placing particular weight on the view that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service exceeds nine years.
No limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed.
All Directors are considered to be independent despite Professor Marsh being on the Board for more than nine years.
As in previous years, all Directors retire at each AGM and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
Each Director has signed a letter of appointment to formalise the terms of his engagement as a non-executive Director, copies of which are available on request and at the Companys AGM.
The Board formally evaluates the Investment Manager, including performance and quality of reporting to the Board and Shareholders.
The Board also reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually, including the level of service, the basis of fees payable and the length of the notice period.
Details of the arrangements are set out in the Directors Report.
Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specifically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and additionally at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor compliance with the investment objective and the Companys investment performance compared with its benchmark index.
The Directors also review several key areas including: the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy: the stockmarket environment: the revenue, balance sheet and gearing position: 26 Governance Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 27 Corporate Governance Report performance in relation to comparable investment trusts: share price discount both absolute levels and volatility : regulatory matters: and relevant industry issues.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports from the Managers analysing and commenting on the composition of the Companys share register and monitors significant changes.
The Board also holds an annual strategy session to consider, amongst other matters, the Companys objective and investment focus and style.
The following highlights various additional matters considered by the Board during the past year: January April July October Consider 2nd Approval of the Shareholder Consider 1st Internal Control Corporate Approval of Half Interim Dividend Annual Report Communication InterimDividend Review Governance Yearly Report Review Review of Review of Review of Retail Review Managers Board & Annual Strategy Investment Trust Management Fee Gearing Distribution continued Committee Review Peer Group allocation Review appointment Evaluation Audit Plan The following table sets out the Directors of the Company during the financial year, together with the number of Board and Committee meetings held and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
All Directors also attended the AGM in March 2013.
Audit The Board Committee Director Held Attended Held Attended Prof P R Marsh, Chairman 4 4 H N Buchan retired on 5 March 2013 1 1 1 1 DJ Jeffcoat 4 4 4 4 Prof W S Nimmo 4 4 R A Rae 4 4 4 4 SPTrickett appointed on 30 January 2013 3 3 3 3 Appointments to the Board The Board continually reviews its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company and the Boards structure, including the diversity and balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors and their length of service, where continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the Board.
To date the Board has not felt it appropriate or necessary to establish a policy on diversity including gender.
As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, Professor Nimmo will retire at the conclusion of this years AGM and, in order that the Board continues to have a balance of skills and experience, the Board decided that additional Directors should be appointed.
The Board therefore appointed a Committee for this purpose, chaired by Professor Paul Marsh.
This Committee, of which Paul Trickett was also a member, was requested to identify and nominate candidates for consideration by the Board.
The Committee was instructed to complete this process taking into consideration the Boards agreed requirements and to seek candidates who would add new perspectives and diversity to the existing Board.
The Committee consulted widely and identified 16 strong candidates.
It therefore decided that there was no need to appoint an external search company.
Following several meetings and conference calls, the Committee then agreed a short list of 5 candidates, all of whom were approached.
Three candidates were interviewed by the Committee during September and October.
Finally, the remaining Directors met the preferred candidates put 27 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report forward by the Committee.
After due consideration, the Board agreed to appoint Julia Le Blan and Paula HayPlumb as Directors of the Company with effect from 29 January 2014.
Both Directors will stand for formal election by Shareholders at the AGM and their biographies can be found on page 20.
Julia is a chartered accountant and was formerly a tax partner at Deloitte.
She is an experienced investment trust director, sitting on three other trust Boards, and has also served for two terms on the AIC's technical committee.
Paula is also a chartered accountant and an accomplished main board director in the private, public and charitable sectors, with significant experience of pension funds, investment management, governance and risk.
All the current Directors are male, with two female Directors being appointed on 29 January 2014.
The Company has no employees.
Board performance and re-appointment of Directors The Board undertakes a formal annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Managers.
The Directors also evaluate the performance of the Board and the Audit Committee by way of an evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of this exercise, together with other relevant discussion areas.
The appraisal of the Chairman is led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board does not currently consider that the use of external consultants to facilitate this evaluation is likely to provide any meaningful benefit to the evaluation process, though the option to do so is kept under review.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the AGM to be held on 27 February 2014.
Professor Marsh and Messrs Jeffcoat, Trickett and Rae, whose biographical details are shown on page 20, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board believes that each Director continues to be effective, bringing a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Board and recommends the re-election of each Director to Shareholders.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
The Company has also entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
Training and Advice New Directors are provided with an induction programme that is tailored to the particular requirements of the appointee.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training when required and changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may also seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Secretaries, Aberforth Partners LLP, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Furthermore, appropriate induction training is arranged by the Secretaries for newly appointed directors.
Conflicts of Interest A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which they and connected persons have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has in place procedures for authorising any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest though no conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders and receives regular reports from the Managers on views and attitudes of Shareholders.
The Managers meet the larger Shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company are always available to meet with any Shareholder.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on the inside back cover or through the Chairmans email address which is paul.
In addition to the annual and half yearly reports, the Companys performance, daily 28 Governance Report 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 29 Corporate Governance Report Net Asset Values, monthly factsheets and other relevant information is published on the Managers website at www.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
Proxy voting figures are announced at the AGM and are available via the Managers website shortly thereafter.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company applies the revised guidance published in October 2005 by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, that proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information of the Company is reliable.
The Directors have an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and these are recorded in a risk matrix.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
The Directors regularly conduct a formal review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This process principally comprises the Audit Committee receiving and examining reports from Aberforth Partners LLP, TheNorthern Trust Company the Companys custodian and Capita Registrars the Companys registrar.
The Board then receives a detailed report from the AuditCommittee on its findings.
As a consequence the Directors have not identified any significant failures or weaknesses in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
Social, Environmental and Ethical Issues The Company is normally a shareholder in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is carried out by its Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP.
The Managers have a consistent and well-defined investment process based on fundamental analysis of the constituents of the investment universe.
The Managers Corporate Governance Statement incorporating the Stewardship Code is available from their website.
The Managers primary objective is to deliver investment returns greater than the return on the Companys benchmark index, the NSCI XIC, over the long term.
The Directors, through the Companys Managers, also encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Board and the Managers support the Statement of Principles of the Institutional Shareholders Committee, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Effective management of risks and opportunities posed by Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE issues is an important component of good corporate governance.
Companies that ignore significant corporate responsibilities risk serious damage to their reputation, brand and shareholder value, as well as litigation and operational risks.
The Managers believe that sound SEE policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on grounds of SEE concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
Voting Policy The Board has given discretionary voting powers to the Managers.
Aberforth Partners LLP exercises these voting rights on every resolution that is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the company concerned.
The Board receives from the Managers quarterly reports on governance issues including voting arising from investee companies and reviews, from time to time, the Managers voting guidelines and its stance towards SRI and SEE matters have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 29
