GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP The Role of the Board Succession plans for the Board and In addition to the regular consideration of The Board is the principal decision-making senior management financial and operating performance and forum for the Group providing entrepreneurial risk management and compliance, the Dividend policy and proposals for leadership, both directly and through its Board received presentations on a variety dividend payments committees, and delegating authority to oftopics including updates from the Major acquisitions, disposals, and other theExecutive team.
The Board is responsible management teams of each of the Groups transactions outside delegated limits for organising and directing the affairs of overseas businesses.
Several external The annual review of its own the Group in a manner that is most likely organisations were also invited to present performance and that of its Board topromote its success for the benefit of its their external perspectives on the Companys Committees members as a whole.
The Board is accountable activities in the context of the markets in to shareholders for setting and achieving which it operates.
The review of the Groups overall the Groups strategic objectives: for the corporate governance arrangements The Chairman seeks to visit each of the creation and delivery of strong sustainable Groups overseas operations every year financial and operational performance: for Board Activity During 2013 andNon-Executive Directors are invited ensuring that in carrying out its duties the At each scheduled meeting the Board tojoin either him or the Chief Executive Groups legal and regulatory obligations are receives updates from the Chief Executive, onone ormore of their overseas visits being met: and for ensuring that it operates Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial eachyear.
In addition, the Non-Executive within appropriately established risk Officer on the financial and operational Directors and the Chairman met during parameters.
The Groups UK regulated entities performance of the Group and any specific theyear without the Executive Directors are responsible to the Financial Conduct developments in their areas of the business being present.
In order to increase their Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulatory for which they are directly responsible and understanding of the operation of the Group Authority PRA for ensuring compliance of which the Board should be aware.
Items below Board level, the Non-Executive with the Groups UK regulatory obligations that are considered on an annual basis are Directors and the Chairman also attended and that dealings with the FCA and PRA included in an annual schedule of rolling two dinners with members of the Groups arehandled in a constructive, co-operative agenda items to ensure that they are senior management team without the and transparent manner.
Similar provisions considered at the appropriate point in the Executive Directors being present.
apply in respect of the Groups international financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are businesses with regard to the relevant structured so as to allow for consideration regulatory authorities in those overseas and debate of all matters.
Mindful of the jurisdictions in which the Group also operates.
need to ensure effective Director succession through senior managers below Board level The Board has adopted a formal schedule having exposure to and gaining experience ofmatters reserved for the Boards of the operation of the Board, the heads consideration.
This is monitored by the ofthe Groups Italian and Spanish direct Company Secretary and reviewed by the insurance businesses respectively Milena Board on an annual basis.
Specific matters Mondini and Cristina Nestares and the reserved to the Board include the approval of: Groups Deputy Chief Financial Officer The Groups long term objectives and Geraint Jones are invited toattend every corporate strategy Board meeting and Boarddinner.
Operating and capital budgets, financial The Board met on seven occasions in 2013 results, and any significant changes to with five of these meetings being held over accounting practices or policies two days.
The Groups capital structure Results and financial reporting The system of internal control and risk management The Groups overall risk appetite Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including newappointments Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 40 10 03 2014 11:25:25 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Meetings and Attendance Directors are expected to attend all Meetings and Attendance meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and to devote sufficient Scheduled Audit Group Risk Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee time to the Group to perform their duties.
meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Where Directors are unable to attend meetings they receive papers for that meeting giving Total meetings held 7 6 4 5 6 them the opportunity to raise any issues Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 5 with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Henry Engelhardt The number of scheduled Board meetings ChiefExecutive Officer 7 and Committee meetings of which they are a member attended by each Director during David Stevens 2013 is provided in the adjacent table.
ChiefOperating Officer 7 4 Kevin Chidwick Agendas and papers are circulated to the ChiefFinancial Officer 7 Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
The Board Roger Abravanel 6 4 agenda is carefully structured by the Chairman Manfred Aldag 7 in consultation with the Company Secretary Annette Court 7 6 4 and Chief Executive.
Thesepapers are supplemented by information specifically Colin Holmes 7 6 5 requested by the Directors from time to time.
Martin Jackson 7 4 5 All Board and Committee meetings during Margaret Johnson 7 6 6 the year were held in an open atmosphere conducive to robust and constructive Lucy Kellaway 7 5 challenge and debate.
All Directors have, John Sussens 7 4 6 therefore, been able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, risk management, performance, and resources.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is contact between meetings, where necessary, to progress theGroups business.
The Company Secretary All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Hehas responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 41 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 41 10 03 2014 11:25:25 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS Board Effectiveness Completion of the questionnaire by each The Roles of the Chairman and Although now a Code requirement that Director and attendee was followed by ChiefExecutive Officer FTSE 350 companies should carry out an one-to-one discussions with Karen where externally facilitated evaluation of the Board the Boards role and structure, process, at least every three years, the Group already relationships, and any emerging issues The Board has approved a had such a policy in place and having last andareas for improvement were discussed.
statement thatsets out the carried out an external evaluation in 2010 The results of the evaluation were considered cleardivision of responsibilities the Group underwent an externally by Karen and the Chairman, with Karen facilitated evaluation in 2013. presenting to the Board in January 2014 between the Chairman and the herexternal perspective on the Boards Chief Executive Officer The evaluation process was led by Karen strengths: future challenges: progress Walls, an independent external consultant against recommendations made in the with experience of evaluating and making lastreview: and areas for improvement.
recommendations to improve Board CHAIRMAN Overall the review found that the Board had effectiveness of a number of FTSE 100 mostly continued to work very effectively: The Chairman is primarily companies.
Karen has no connection with that each Director contributes effectively the Group.
The objectives of the evaluation responsible for the leadership and demonstrates full commitment to his were to build on the improvements made andworkings ofthe Board, her duties: that the Board was effectively since the last evaluation, thereby improving settingits agenda, and chaired: and that good progress had been both the collective contribution of the monitoringits effectiveness.
achieved in many of the areas identified for Board as a whole and also the behaviour, TheChairman is not involved action in the last independent review at the competence and effectiveness of each in the day-to-day management end of 2010.
In particular in the areas of individual Director.
of the business succession planning: risk management with Karen, in consultation with the Chairman the establishment of a Group Risk Committee: and supported by the Company Secretary increased Board exposure of senior managers compiled and circulated a comprehensive from the UK business through attendance questionnaire for completion by all Directors atdinners with Non-Executive Directors CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER and Board attendees, the aim of which was without Executive Directors being present to evaluate the performance and effectiveness and discussion at Board level of talent profiles Save for matters reserved for of the Board and its Committees.
of existing managers identified as having decision by the Board, the executive potential.
The questionnaire considered: ChiefExecutive, with the support Board processes and their effectiveness The particular themes and areas of focus of the other Executive Directors, identified during the 2013 review included: isresponsible for proposing Time management of Board meetings thestrategy to be adopted by Allow the new Chair of Risk to develop Board composition and dynamics theGroup: running the business the appropriate strategy to achieve the The effectiveness of the Board in requisite balance and focus between inaccordance with thestrategy considering the Groups risk management procedural and substantive aspects of agreed by the Board: and framework and internal controls risk and to create the most efficient and implementing specific Board Its strategic and operational oversight effective reporting materials decisions relating to the Succession planning Create a clear structure in presenting operationof the Group.
Priorities for change materials that shows the original forecast, agreed approach and any Board support assumptions made at the time and the Content of discussion and focus at bridge to the current position showing Board meetings changes to current forecast and Directors were also invited to indicate suggested approach where specific improvements could be Create an action list and tracker of made to improve the effectiveness of agreed recommendations in the Board the Board pack and review at each meeting to ensure progress is made The Board to set annually the key objectives of the Board On an annual basis review the calendarand location of meetings tooptimise balance Invite external experts to present on customers, competitors, and or social trends every one to two years to provoke thinking and debate in advance of likely changes in customer preferences and or competitor practices Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 42 10 03 2014 11:25:25 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION During the year and in order to provide regular with the support of the other Executive independent.
There is no requirement that feedback as to the effectiveness of each Directors, is responsible for proposing the significant shareholder has representation Board meeting, the Board continued with thestrategy to be adopted by the Group: on the Board and, accordingly, Mr Aldags the process of Directors providing feedback, running the business in accordance with appointment is subject to the same via the completion of an online questionnaire, thestrategy agreed by the Board: and appointment and removal process as the on such pertinent topics as the efficacy implementing specific Board decisions other Board Directors.
As can be seen from ofthe presentation of discussion topics: relating to the operation of the Group.
the Directors biographies on pages 38 to 39, whether time available for the meeting Thestatements of division of responsibilities the Directors have a broad range of skills wasused effectively: and what areas and matters reserved for decision by the and experience and can bring independent couldbe improved upon.
judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of The Chief Executive to whom they report, conduct which are integral to the success Board Balance and Independence appraises annually the performance of the ofthe Group.
The Board continues to give careful individual Executive Directors.
The Chairman, consideration to its structure and balance taking into account the views of the other As part of the ongoing review of the balance particularly given several Directors will reach Directors, reviews the performance of the and composition of the Board and in the nine years service in the next two to three Chief Executive.
The performance of the context of several of the Non-Executive years.
In this context the Group is mindful Chairman is reviewed by the Board led Directors reaching their maximum term ofthe need to refresh Board and committee bythe Senior Independent Director SID.
overthe next two years, the Nomination membership in an orderly manner so as to Following the latest review, the SID considered Committee initiated the process of recruiting maintain the continuity of Board process and discussed with the Chairman the a Non-Executive Director with experience of and the strength of personal interaction comments and feedback that had been managing risk in a financial services context which underlies the effectiveness of the received from the Directors as part of the and someone capable of taking over as Board as a team.
The Board remains Chairmans evaluation questionnaire, and Chair of the Group Risk Committee when satisfied that it has the appropriate balance was able to confirm that the performance Martin Jackson steps down from that role of skills, experience, independence and ofthe Chairman continues to be effective atthe AGM in April 2014.
Appointments knowledge of the Group to enable it and and that he continues to demonstrate tothe Board are the responsibility of the itsCommittees to discharge their duties appropriate commitment to his role.
Board as a whole, acting on the advice and responsibilities effectively, as required andrecommendations of the Nomination by the Code.
Appointments are made on The Roles of the Chairman merit and against objective criteria, having The table below details the length of service of andChiefExecutive due regard to the benefits of diversity, the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive The Board has approved a statement that including gender.
Following a formal, rigorous Directors and illustrates the balance of sets out the clear division of responsibilities and transparent process implemented and experience and fresh perspectives.
between the Chairman and the Chief led by the Nomination Committee the Board Executive.
The Chairman is primarily The Board currently comprises thirteen was delighted to appoint Jean Park as an responsible for the leadership and workings Directors, theChairman who was independent independent Non-Executive Director with ofthe Board, setting its agenda, and on appointment, three Executive Directors, effect from 17 January 2014.
Jean joined as monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman eight independent Non-Executive Directors, a member of the Risk and Remuneration is not involved in the day-to-day management and one Non-Executive Director, Manfred Committees on appointment and will be of the business.
Save for matters reserved for Aldag, who is employed by a significant subject to election by shareholders at the decision by the Board, the Chief Executive, shareholder and is not, therefore, considered forthcoming AGM.
Current length of service as Chairman or a Non-Executive Director at 31 December 2013 Director Date of Appointment Length of service as at 31 December 2013 13yrs 6mths Alastair Lyons Chairman 1 July 2000 10yrs 9mths Manfred Aldag 13 March 2003 9yrs 4mths John Sussens 19 August 2004 9yrs 4mths Martin Jackson 19 August 2004 7yrs 4mths Margaret Johnson 4 September 2006 7yrs 4mths Lucy Kellaway 4 September 2006 3yrs 1mth Colin Holmes 3 December 2010 1yr 10mths Roger Abravanel 6 March 2012 1yr 9mths Annette Court 21 March 2012 Jean Park 17 January 2014 n a Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 43 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 43 10 03 2014 11:25:25 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Board Balance and Independence continued smooth transition given Colins knowledge Although Colin Holmes holds, with and experience of the Group gained through AlastairLyons, a cross-directorship in his Board position and Chairmanship of the BovisHomes Group plc, the Board has Audit Committee.
From April, Annette The Company determined that Colin Holmes remains Court will replace John as Chair of the independent in character and judgement Remuneration Committee and Jean Park attaches and that his holding of a cross-directorship willreplace Martin Jackson asChair of the does not affect his ability to present an Group Risk Committee.
considerable objective, rigorous and constructive challenge In accordance with the requirement under importance to to the assumptions and viewpoints presented the Code for annual election of Directors, by management and the Board.
communications allDirectors will be submitting themselves The Board, having given thorough for re-election by shareholders at the with shareholders consideration to the matter, considers forthcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied eightof the Non-Executive Directors to that all are properly qualified for their and engages with beindependent and is not aware of any reappointment by virtue of their skills and relationships or circumstances which are them regularly.
experience and their contribution to the likely to affect, or could appear to affect, Board and its Committees.
the judgement of any of them.
It is the The Directors are given access to independent viewof the Board that the independent professional advice at the Groups expense, Non-Executive Directors are of sufficient should they deem it necessary to carry out calibre and number that their views carry their responsibilities.
significant weight in the Boards decisionmaking.
Professional Development Independent Non-Executive Directors On appointment, Directors take part in arecurrently appointed for fixed periods acomprehensive induction programme ofthreeyears, subject to election by whereby they receive financial and shareholders.
The initial three-year period operational information about the Group: may be extended for two further three-year details concerning their responsibilities periods subject tore-election by shareholders.
andduties: as well as an introduction to Their letters of appointment may be theGroups governance, regulatory and inspected at the Companys registered control environment.
office or can be obtained on request from This induction is supplemented by visits to the Company Secretary.
the Groups head office in Cardiff, overseas Although the Chairman has served in that offices, and meetings with members of role since July 2000 the Board remains of thesenior management team and their the view that he should continue in office.
Development and training The Chairman, along with all the Directors, ofDirectors is an ongoing process.
Throughout seeks election by shareholders annually.
their period in office the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business: legal The Chairman performs a number of other matters concerning their role and duties: non-executive roles outside the Group and the competitive environments in which the details of these are included in the Chairmans Group operates: and any other significant biography.
The Board continues to be changes affecting the Group andthe industry satisfied that these other commitments are of which it is a part.
All Board members are not such as to interfere with the performance also encouraged to attend relevant training of his duties within the Group and will not courses at the Companys expense.
impact on his ability to allocate sufficient time to discharge effectively his responsibilities The Board receives presentations from to the Group.
senior managers within the Group on a regular basis and Non-Executive Directors John Sussens is the Senior Independent are encouraged to make informal visits to Non-Executive Director SID.
He is available different parts of the Group to meet with to shareholders if they have concerns that local management.
contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive, or Chief Financial Engagement with Shareholders Officer has failed to resolve or for which The Company attaches considerable such contact is inappropriate.
importance to communications with He is also responsible for leading the Boards shareholders and engages with them discussion on the Chairmans performance regularly.
Open and frequent dialogue and the appointment of a new Chairman, withinvestors enables them to understand asand when appropriate.
fully the Groups strategy, objectives and governance.
The Investor Relations team John Sussens and Martin Jackson, both having has day-to-day primary responsibility for served for nine years as Non-Executive managing communications with institutional Directors, will be retiring from the Board at shareholders through a combination the forthcoming AGM in April 2014 and will ofbriefings to analysts and institutional not be submitting themselves for re-election shareholders, both at the half-year and by shareholders.
Colin Holmes will become fullyear results.
A number of analysts SID when John steps down at the AGM in andinvestors visited the Groups Cardiff April and it is anticipated that this will be a Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 44 10 03 2014 11:25:26 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION office during the year to meet with the Conflicts of Interest Executive Directors and senior management In compliance with the requirements of the inorder to get a better understanding of Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors how the Group operates and how it intends duties in relation to conflicts of interest, the All shareholders are to achieve its strategic and operational Groups Articles of Association allow the objectives.
Senior Executives from the Board to authorise potential conflicts of invited to attend the Groups overseas businesses also visit the interest that may arise and to impose such UK in order to present to, and meet with, limits as it thinks fit.
The Company has put in Companys Annual analysts and investors.
Site visits and place procedures to deal with conflicts of General Meeting individual discussions with the Executive interest.
These procedures include each Directors are also arranged throughout Board member completing, annually, a AGM.
The Chairs theyear with individual shareholders.
conflict of interest questionnaire that sets out any situation in which they, or their ofthe Audit, In addition the Chairman had individual connected persons have, or could have, meetings during the year with major Remuneration, adirect or indirect interest that could shareholders and reported to the Board conflict with the interests of the Company.
Nomination and Any current directorships that they, or their This is supplemented by feedback to the connected persons hold, any advisory roles Group Risk Board on meetings between management or trusteeships held, together with any Committees attend and investors.
External analysts reports are companies in which they hold more than circulated to all Directors by the Company 1%of the issued share capital are also the AGM along with Secretary.
In addition, the Investor Relations disclosed.
These procedures were reviewed team produces a quarterly Investor Relations by the Board in December 2013 and it the other Directors Report that is circulated to the Board.
The wasconcluded that they continued to and are available Report contains an analysis of share price operate effectively.
performance: a summary of analyst reports toanswer received during the month and of meetings Board Committees that have been held with investors and analysts: The Board has delegated authority to a shareholders together with details of any significant number of permanent committees to deal questions on the changes to the shareholders register.
with matters in accordance with written Terms of Reference.
The principal committees The Senior Independent Director has specific activities of the of the Board Audit, Remuneration, Risk responsibility to be available to investors andNomination all comply fully with the committees who have any issues or concerns, and in requirements of the Code.
cases where contact with the Chairman, theychair.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial All committees are chaired by an Independent Officer has either failed to resolve their Director, except the Nomination Committee concerns, or for where such contact is which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, inappropriate.
No such concerns have and comprise amajority of Independent beenraised in the year underreview.
Appointments to the committees are made on the recommendation of the All shareholders are invited to attend the Nomination Committee and are for a period Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
of up to three years, which may be extended The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, for twofurther three-year periods, provided Nomination and Group Risk Committees theDirector remains independent.
The attend the AGM along with the other Directors committees are constituted with written and are available to answer shareholders Terms of Reference that are reviewed annually questions on the activities of the committees to ensure that they remain appropriate and they chair.
Shareholders are also invited reflect any changes in good practice and toask questions during the meeting and governance.
These Termsof Reference are have an opportunity to meet with Directors available on requestfrom the Company after the formal business of the meeting has Secretary and can also be found on the been concluded.
Details ofproxy voting by Companys website: www.
shareholders, including votes withheld, are Directors are fully informed of all Committee made available on request and are placed matters by the committee Chairmen reporting on the Companys website following on the proceedings of their committee at themeeting.
Copies of committee minutes are also distributed to the Board.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Chairman of each committee attends the AGM to respond toany shareholder questions that might be raised onthe committees activities.
The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk containing a widerange of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The major shareholders of the Company are listed on page 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 45 x ADM ar13 middle.
