REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE STATEMENT FROM COLIN HOLMES CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committees Primary Responsibilities are to: Monitor the integrity of the Groups fi financial statements and any formal announcement relating to the Groups fi financial performance, reviewing any signifi cant fi financial reporting judgements which they contain Keep under review the effectiveness ofthe Companys internal fi financial controls, internal control and risk management systems Review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud Monitor and assess the role and Dear Shareholder, effectiveness of the Groups internal Im pleased to provide an update on the main activities of Admirals audit functions in the context of the Audit Committee during 2013.
Groups overall internal control and risk management systems The key focus of the Committees work has, as usual, been to support the Board in its oversight of fi financial reporting and the control Consider and make recommendations environment across the Group.
The key accounting judgement to the Board, to be put to shareholders inthe Groups fi financial statements continues to be the setting of for their approval at the AGM, in relation insurance claims reserves, and the Committee placed considerable to the appointment, reappointment and focus on reviewing the recommendations of management and removal of the Groups external auditor discussing the key reserving judgements with the Groups Review the external auditors independent actuaries and external auditor.
The Committee also independence and objectivity and the reviewed the Groups Reserving Policy which, with appropriate effectiveness of the audit process amendments, was subsequently approved by the Board.
Review the policy on the engagement The Committee studied a number of key control issues, highlighted ofthe external auditor to provide through a range of different sources including the risk register, non-audit services, considering the internal audit and the Committees previous work.
In each case the relevant regulatory guidance regarding Committee found the responses and action plans from management the provision of non-audit services by appropriate to the issues raised.
With the scale of the Groups the external auditor international activities increasing, the Committee also took the opportunity to more formally document the relationship between the Group Head of Internal Audit and the international subsidiaries.
The Committee also considered, with management and the Groups auditor, the matters raised in 2012 Annual Report and Accounts review letter received by the Group from the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Group was able to respond satisfactorily to each of the queries raised by the FRC, but as part of the review process agreed a revised disclosure on grossing up expenses within the income statement.
Additionally, the Committee received presentations from the Groups auditors on relevant accounting, regulatory and corporate governance changes, ensuring their impact had been fully considered by the Group.
I hope you fi nd the above summary, and the more detailed report, both useful and informative.
Colin Holmes Chairman of the Audit Committee 4 March 2014 A A A Ad d d dm m m miiiir r r ra a a al G l G l G l Gr r r ro o o ou u u up p p p p p p pllllc c c c A A An n nn n nu u ua a al R l R l Re e ep p po o or r rt a t a t an n nd A d A d Ac c cc c co o ou u un n nt t ts s s 2 2 20 0 01 1 13 3 3 46 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 46 10 03 2014 11:25:28 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Membership Membership of the Committee at the end of SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 the year was: Colin Holmes Chair, Margaret Johnson and Annette Court.
Composition of the Committee is well balanced, with During the Year the Committee Reviewed the Following: Committee members having a broad range of financial and business experience such The Annual Report and interim results that they are able to effectively analyse, challenge and debate the issues that fall Reports from the internal audit departments within the Group on the effectiveness within the Committees remit.
of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures, details of key The Company Secretary acts as secretary audit findings, and actions taken by management to manage and reduce the tothe Committee.
The Committee meets at impact of the risks identified least four times per year and has an agenda Reports from the external auditor on the principal findings from its review of the linked to events in the Companys financial Groups systems and controls, and on its key accounting and audit issues and calendar and other important issues that conclusions on the half and full year reporting arise throughout the year which fall for consideration by the Committee under Reports from the Chair of the Group Risk Committee on the principal risks faced itsremit.
by the Group and the work undertaken by the Committee to ensure risk is The Board considers that the members appropriatelymanaged ofthe Committee have the appropriate competence and experience necessary to Presentations from independent actuaries to assist the Committee in concluding contribute meaningfully to the Committees on the adequacy of the Groups reserves deliberations and further considers that Colin Holmes Committee Chair, as a The Groups Reserving Policy as drafted by management to develop a final Chartered Management Accountant, has version that was approved by the Board appropriate recent and relevant financial experience having previously been the Reports from the external auditor on its proposed audit scope, fees, audit UKFinance Director for Tesco plc.
findings, and auditor independence The Committee is kept up to date with Performance and effectiveness of the internal audit department including review changes to accounting standards and of the results of the external effectiveness review of internal audit relevant developments in financial reporting, company law, and the various regulatory All reports from internal audit including management responses to the frameworks through presentations from conclusions set out in the reports theGroups external auditor, Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
The recommendation to more formally describe the relationship between the Inaddition members attend relevant Group Head of Internal Audit and the international subsidiaries seminars and conferences provided by external bodies.
The Terms of Reference The effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy which sets out the ofthe Audit Committee include all the arrangements for raising and handling allegations from whistleblowers matters required under the Code.
Other individuals such as the Chief Financial The effectiveness of the procedures for detecting fraud Officer and his Deputy, Chief Operating The committee also had presentations and discussions on a range of important Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Chairman issues including the approach to reserving within the Group, a review of large ofthe Board, the Heads of Risk, Compliance claims and profit commission arrangements and Internal Audit, and representatives of different parts of the Group may be invited The 2012 Annual Report and Accounts review letter from the FRC and considered, to attend all or part of any meeting as and with external auditor, the response of management to the issues raised when appropriate.
The external auditor was invited to attend all of the Committees Its own Terms of Reference meetings held in 2013, excepting those agenda items when its own performance was to be Its own effectiveness reviewed and provision of non-audit services discussed.
In addition, anumber of private meetings were held between members of the Committee and the auditor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 47 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 47 10 03 2014 11:25:28 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Significant Issues Considered The Audit Committee also received an update Recognition of Intra-group Trading from the auditor regarding theprocedures it The Committee considered and reviewed bytheCommittee had used to test managements methodology the following unadjusted difference, reported After discussion with both management in setting bestestimates and considered the by the external auditor, relating to intra-group andthe external auditor, the Audit auditors assertion that it had challenged the trading which had not been eliminated Committee determined that the key risks reserving approach taken by management and onconsolidation.
ofmisstatement of the Groups financial was satisfied with managements assumptions statements related to: insurance liabilities: Management confirmed to the Committee and that the Groups approach to setting profit commissions: and both co-insurance thatalthough the auditors continued to reserves was in compliance with current and reinsurance contracts.
report an unadjusted difference in relation accounting standards.
tointra-group trading between Admiral and These issues were discussed with Confused.
com in the UK as a result of their management during the year and with the Profit Commission inclusion on the insurance panel, management auditor at the time the Committee reviewed The Committee considered the impact on had opted not to make the elimination and agreed the auditors Group audit plan: profit commission income of future changes adjustments as the effect would be misleading when the auditor reviewed the interim in claims reserves as the recognition of this on the key ratios used by the industry and financial statements in August 2013 and also income is dependent on the loss ratio also due to consistency with prior years.
at the conclusion of the audit of these full booked in the financial statements and KPMG confirmed that although this was an year financial statements.
cashreceivable is dependent on actuarial unadjusted difference, it was both immaterial projections of ultimate loss ratios.
Insurance Liabilities and consistent with prior years.
The Committee received a detailed paper The Audit Committee considered the The Committee fully considered and from the Deputy Chief Financial Officer which provision for claims outstanding comprising challenged management on the approach provided an analysis of profit commission, provisions for the estimated cost of setting they had taken not to make elimination its accounting treatment and the risks to this all claims incurred but unpaid as at the adjustments on the grounds of immateriality.
In addition, the Committee balance sheet date, whether reported or Following comprehensive review, the considered legal advice obtained on the not.
The Board has approved a Reserving Committee confirmed its acceptance of Groups reinsurance and co-insurance Policy that sets out the methodology by managements position on the basis that contracts and was able to gain assurance which management sets reserves in the accounting for intra-group trading in this that the profit commission clauses operated financial statements that are sufficient, to a way was acceptable given the immateriality effectively, that profit commission was correctly high degree of likelihood, to cover any of the sums involved and resulted in a better accounted for bythe Group, and that it liabilities that can be reasonably assumed to overall presentation of the financial statements.
wasin accordance with the contractual arise from business earned up to the arrangements that werein place.
The approach is to ensure Misstatements that an appropriate margin is provided The Audit Committee considered the auditors Aside from the intra-group trading issue noted above actuarial best estimates to allow for overall findings on this area which indicated above, no misstatements were reported by uncertainty and volatility.
that it considered the profit commission the auditor to the Committee and no material recognised was appropriate in the context The Audit Committee held separate amounts remain unadjusted.
TheCommittee of the financial statements as a whole.
meetings with the Groups external confirms that it is satisfied that the auditor actuaries at which there was challenge and has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence Co-insurance and Reinsurance debate of the methodology used and best and professional scepticism.
The Group has in place a number of estimates developed by the external proportional risk sharing agreements, where After reviewing the presentations and actuaries and recommended for adoption insurers outside the Group underwrite a reports from management and consulting by management and the Groups internal majority of the risk generated, either through where necessary with the auditors, the actuary.
At these meetings management co-insurance or reinsurance contracts.
There Committee is satisfied that the financial provided further information on the is judgement involved inthe assessment of statements appropriately address the reserving levels proposed and were whether significant risk has transferred which critical judgements and key estimates both challenged by the Committee as to their impacts on the appropriate accounting.
in respect to the amounts reported and the adequacy and level of inherent prudency.
The Committee is also satisfied The Committee considered key accounting Whilst acknowledging that the setting of that the significant assumptions used for judgements as part of its review and approval reserves to cover future claims is a complex determining the value of assets and of Group financial statements atinterim and and judgemental area and having had the liabilities have been appropriately year-end meetings.
The Committee received opportunity at the separate meetings scrutinised, challenged and are reporting from the Group Finance team that referred to above to consider and question sufficientlyrobust.
supported key accounting estimates and the recommended best estimates, the judgements and this formed the basis for the Committee is satisfied that an appropriate Committees discussion.
Risk transfer was process has been followed and that there considered on a periodic basis or more has been scrutiny, challenge and debate to frequently in the case of changes to contractual give confidence that the reserving levels set arrangements.
In the light of the information provide an appropriate margin above best received by the Committee, the Committee estimates and allowed for a level of prudency.
considered that the appropriate risk transfer had taken place.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 48 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 48 10 03 2014 11:25:28 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Non-Audit Fees Audit Tender Members of the Committee also receive During the year the Committee reviewed its The Committee has noted that the Code allissued audit reports, enabling them to policy on non-audit services that sets out the has introduced new recommendations that challenge the reports content and related procedure for approval, by the Committee, audits should be put out for tender at least recommendations.
The Committee of expenditure with the Groups auditor of every 10 years.
The last such tender was approves the internal audit programmes over 30,000, including the process where carried out by the Group in 2006.
In view atthe start of each calendar year whilst the itis necessary for approval of such work to ofthe high quality ofservice received by effectiveness and workload of the internal be given outside of the normal Committee theGroup from the auditor: and the fresh audit functions and the adequacy of meeting timetable.
Such circumstances will perspective provided by the recent rotation available resources are monitored require the approval ofthe Audit Committee of the audit engagement partner in 2011: the throughout the year.
Chair who will consider and approve such fees Committee recommended that a re-tender In accordance with agreed parameters, on behalf of the Committee and will ensure process should not be undertaken in 2013 but theoverseas operations in Spain, Italy that auditor independence and objectivity that the relationship with and effectiveness andthe USA have their own locally based are not compromised.
Such approval of fees of KPMG should be kept under review.
internal auditors, who report to their in excess of 30,000 will then be notified by Aresolution for the reappointment of KPMG respective country heads.
All reports the Committee Chair to the next Committee as auditor will, therefore, be proposed at the areevaluated bythe Group Head of meeting following approval.
There are no contractual InternalAudit to ensure the quality and auditor, KPMG Audit plc, provides some obligations that restrict the Groups choice effectiveness of thereported findings.
non-audit services, the majority of which of externalauditor.
Inaddition, the UK internal audit department comprise compliance and advisory services In line with the recent findings of the UK carries out high level governance reviews related to various taxation issues within the Competition Commission and the Guidance ofallforeign operations, assessing the Group, and which are not considered by the for Audit Committees issued by the FRC, it internalcontrol frameworks and system of risk Committee to compromise its independence is the Committees intention to put the audit management.
The overseas internal auditors and objectivity as auditor.
This decision is services contract out to tender at the end attend Committee meetings periodically.
typically based on the merit of using KPMGs ofthe five-year rotation of the current audit existing knowledge of the Groups business: engagement partner.
Therefore, the audit Committee Effectiveness Review its particular expertise inrelation to the for the year ending 31 December 2016 will As part of the Committees detailed annual advice sought on each relevant transaction be put out to tender in 2015.
The Committee review of its performance and processes, and the consequent value added and inherent continues to monitor the changes proposed each Committee member completed a saving of fees.
The level of non-audit fees is by the European Union and UK Competition comprehensive online questionnaire reviewed at each Committee meeting and Commission in respect of auditor services designed to provide objective assessment details are included in the Annual Report.
and re-tendering which remains a work of the Committees performance, including inprogress.
its effectiveness in monitoring internal and Effectiveness of the External AuditProcess external audit.
The Committee discussed The Committee undertakes an annual Internal Audit the results of the review and it was concluded review to assess the independence and The Group Head of Internal Audit attends that the Committee and the audit process objectivity of the external auditor and the all Audit Committee meetings and provides were effective: that the Committee had full effectiveness of the audit process, taking a range of presentations and papers to the access to all the information it required: that into consideration relevant professional Committee, through which the Committee the Committee had appropriate Terms of andregulatory requirements, the progress monitors the effectiveness of the Groups Reference: and that it was adequately achieved against the agreed audit plan, internal controls.
The Committee reviewed discharging its responsibilities.
andthe competence with which the auditor and approved the Group Internal Audit handled the key accounting and audit Terms of Reference which set out the role: judgements.
Following this review the objectives: reporting lines and accountability: Committee concluded that the auditor, authority: independence: and objectivity KPMG Audit plc, remained independent ofthe internal audit function.
The role and and provided a service that was robust competence of each internal audit function andfit for purpose.
across the Group wasalso assessed and considered by the Committee.
It was agreed that the Group Head of Internal Audit would have increased responsibility to ensure the quality of the internal audit activities in the Groups overseas locations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 49 x ADM ar13 middle.
