REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE STATEMENT FROM ALASTAIR LYONS CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The membership of the Committee at the year end was Alastair Lyons Chairman, ColinHolmes and Lucy Kellaway.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive to attend meetings when it deems appropriate.
The Committee met on fi five occasions during 2013.
The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board or where the appointee is likely to become a Board member.
The Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for theappointment of new Directors to the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience required of Directors.
The Committee also ensures Dear Shareholder, plans are in place for orderly succession As part of the Committees remit to review regularly the composition forappointments to the Board, and reviews and experience of the Board to ensure that the range of skills, breadth the succession plans for other senior of the experience and diversity are fully considered, the Committee management positions.
Responsibility undertook a thorough review of the Groups succession planning formaking senior management appointments requirements given a number of Directors were coming to the end rests with the Chief Executive.
of their nine-year terms in the next few years, and that Independent During 2013, as part of the Boards Non-Executive Directors would normally be regarded as having commitment to review the size of the lost their independence after nine years.
Boardand the balance of its composition It was agreed that given this degree of Board change, the Committee and having regard to the length of service should develop aclear structured succession plan that would ensure ofsome of the existing Board members, appropriate action was taken wellahead of the dates on which theBoard decided to initiate a search for individuals would be retiring in order to achieve their replacement, aNon-Executive Director.
The Group has if appropriate, with individuals of the appropriate skills, experience inplace a policy of recruiting well ahead and fi t tothe Board.
ofimpending retirements in order to ensure continuity of knowledge and Board dynamics.
The Nomination Committee led this process and assessed the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and experience Alastair Lyons onthe Board.
The Committee developed Chairman of the Nomination Committee anappropriate specifi cation for this role 4 March 2014 identifying the need for the successful candidate to have both risk management experience and insurance experience.
Following this process, the Committee identifi ed Jean Park, who has extensive knowledge of risk governance and risk management frameworks and was, until June 2013, Group Chief Risk Offi cer CRO for Phoenix Group, the UKs largest specialist closed life and pension fund consolidator.
Amember of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, she has previously been Head of Compliance and Audit for Scottish Widows and Risk Management Director of the Insurance and Investment Divisionfor Lloyds TSB.
Jean is currently Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 52 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 52 10 03 2014 11:25:32 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION aNon-Executive Director of Murray Income At this meeting the emerging talent across Trust plc and National House Building Council.
the Group was discussed in detail with the There are a very limited number ofindividuals Executive team identifying key individuals who have held the role of Chief Risk Officer within the organisation who had impressed The Group remains of major insurance companies, hence the in their current roles and who had the Nomination Committee took the opportunity potential to contribute to the business by committed to of Jeansretirement as CRO of the Phoenix working on projects in other areas of the Group to approach her to ascertain her Group.
Such exposure would also assist providing equal interest in joining the Board of Admiral.
withtheir development in order that, at the opportunities, Given her background, experience and appropriate time, they might be in a position competence, and the external references to succeed to senior management positions.
eliminating that were obtained, the Committee did not The Committee remains satisfied that consider iteither necessary or appropriate discrimination, succession plans for Directors and senior to undertake a full search led by an external management are in place to ensure the andencouraging recruitment consultancy.
continued ability of the Group to implement Each Committee member met separately strategy and compete effectively in the diversity amongst with Jean and agreed that, given the increasing markets in which it operates.
itsworkforce both focus on the governance of theGroups risk The Group remains strongly supportive management framework, Jeanwould bring inthe UK and ofthe principle of boardroom diversity, invaluable risk experience to the Board.
ofwhich gender is an important, but not TheBoard approved the Committees overseas.
What is important is recommendation and following regulatory diversity of thought, experience and approval Jean wasformally appointed to approach and each new appointment must theBoard with effect from 17 January 2014. complement what already exists at the In addition to the recruitment of Jean Park Board table.
Accordingly, appointments will and in order to strengthen the Groups risk always be made on merit against objective capability, the Committee initiated a search criteria, including diversity, and not just to for a Group Director of Risk a non-Board achieve an externally prescribed number.
External search consultants were Given women already constitute over 25% engaged and a shortlist ofcandidates ofour plc Board, the Group has already met identified.
James Armstrong emerged as the target set for 2015 by Lord Davies in astrong candidate given his experience in hisreport, Women on Boards.
The Group this area whilst working for Lloyds Banking remains committed to providing equal Group and Deloitte.
TheCommittee met opportunities, eliminating discrimination, with James and recommended that he should and encouraging diversity amongst its be appointed as Director of Risk.
The Board workforce both in the UK and overseas.
approved the recommendation and James Abreakdown of the gender of Company will join the Group in March 2014.
Directors and senior employees at the end of the financial year together with details of The Board, at its meeting in January 2013, the Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity considered the Groups current succession at Work Policy are set out in the Strategic plan which considered the senior roles Report at page 15. within the Group and identified whether there was emergency short term cover in Full details of the membership, responsibilities place in the event that an individual left and activities of the Remuneration Committee theorganisation, and whether there was a can be found in the Directors Remuneration permanent replacement available within the Report set out on pages 55 to 64. organisation, or whether the position would need to be filled externally.
It also identified where there were individuals who, with further experience and guidance, would becapable of moving into particular senior management roles.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 53 x ADM ar13 middle.
