BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 NC 2 Alastair Lyons, CBE 60 1 Non-Executive Chairman, appointed July 2000 Non-Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc Non-Executive Chairman of the Towergate InsuranceGroup Group Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes Group plc In his executive career Alastair has been Chief Alastair Lyons, CBE Henry Engelhardt, CBE Executive Offi cer CEO of the National Provident Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Offi cer Institution and of the National & Provincial Building Society, Managing Director of the Insurance Division of Abbey National plc and Director of Corporate 3 GRC 4 Projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
He has held numerous non-executive roles, having most recently stepped down as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at the Phoenix Group.
Hehas also been a Non-Executive Director of boththe Department for Transport DfT and the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, as well as of its predecessor, the Department of Health David Stevens, CBE Kevin Chidwick andSocial Security DHSS.
Chief Operating Offi cer Chief Financial Offi cer A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded a CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours 5 6 RC for services to social security.
GRC SID Manfred Aldag 63 5 Non-Executive Director, appointed in March 2003 Chief Executive Manager of Munich Re, Manfred Aldag John Sussens responsible for UK and Ireland Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Manfred graduated from University of Essen with adegree in economics and business management.
Since 1981, Manfred has been working for Munich Re.
7 RC 8 RC GRC AC Martin Jackson Margaret Johnson, OBE Lucy Kellaway 54 9 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, appointed in September 2006 Lucy is a management columnist on the NC AC 9 10 FinancialTimes NC In her 20 years at the Financial Times Lucy has been an oil correspondent, a Lex columnist and Brussels correspondent.
Lucy has authored various books.
Lucy Kellaway Colin Holmes Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 11 RC 12 GRC AC Jean Park 59 13 3 Non-Executive Director, appointed inJanuary2014 Non-Executive Director of Murray Income Trust plc Non-Executive Director of the National House Roger Abravanel Annette Court Building Council Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jean was Group Chief RiskOffi cer at the Phoenix Group from 2009 until June 2013, during which time 13 she held responsibility for the Groups relationship with the regulator and founded the Board Risk Committee.
Previously, she was Risk Management Director of the Insurance and Investments division of Lloyds TSB and, before that, Head of Compliance and Audit at Scottish Widows.
Jean is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Jean Park Non-Executive Director Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 38 10 03 2014 11:25:25 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Henry Engelhardt, CBE 56 Kevin Chidwick 50 David Stevens, CBE 51 2 3 4 Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, appointed in October 1999 appointed in September 2006 appointed in October 1999 Trustee of the Wales Millennium Centre WMC Kevin is responsible for finance, compliance and Trustee of the Waterloo Foundation investments, as well as the subsidiary Elephant Auto.
Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was David is a founder Director of Admiral and was Kevin joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Chief recruited by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set up recruited in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
Prior to Admiral the Admiral business.
Prior to joining Admiral, Henry Prior to joining Admiral David worked at McKinsey Kevin worked in UK financial services for over 25years was the original Marketing and Sales Manager for &Co, in the Financial Interest Group, and Cadbury and he held a number of senior roles in other Churchill Insurance.
Henry has an MBA from INSEAD, Schweppes in the UK and the USA.
David has an insurance organisations, including being the Finance a BA from the University of Michigan and was MBA from INSEAD and he was awarded a CBE Director of Engage Mutual Assurance and Cigna UK.
awarded an honorary CBE in 2008 for services in2010 for service to business and the community Kevin is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of tobusiness in Wales.
Certified Accountants and has an MBA from LondonBusiness School.
John Sussens 68 Martin Jackson 65 Margaret Johnson, OBE 55 6 7 8 1 2 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, appointed in August 2004 appointed in August 2004 appointed in September 2006 John was a Non-Executive Director of Cookson Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Group Chief Executive Officer of Leagas Delaney Group plc from 2004.
He remained with Vesuvius Committee of IG Group Holdings plc Margaret has worked for the international advertising post the Cookson split as Senior Independent Martin was Chairman of the Admiral Group Audit agency Leagas Delaney for the past 15 years.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Committee from August 2004 until January 2012, Margaret was awarded an OBE in 2013 in recognition Remuneration Committee before retiring from the when he became Chairman of the newly formed of her services to the creative industries and her Vesuvius Board in June 2013.
Prior to this he Group Risk Committee GRC.
Martin was the Group voluntary work for charities.
wasthe Group Managing Director ofMisys plc Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between between 1998 and 2004, having been onthe 20012003 and Friends Provident Life Office between Board of the Company since 1989.
Prior to this he was the Group Finance previously served as Manufacturing Director Director at London & Manchester Group plc from ofJCBamford Excavators Ltd, and as a 1992, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends Non-Executive Director of Chubb plc.
Martin is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Colin Holmes 48 Roger Abravanel 67 Annette Court 51 10 11 12 Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director, appointed in December 2010 appointed in March 2012 appointed in March2012 Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director serving on, amongst Non-Executive Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Remuneration Committee of Bovis Homes Group plc others, the Boards of: Luxottica Group S. p. A: Teva Group plc, Foxtons plc and Workshare Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd: Banca Nazionale del Chairman of GO Outdoors Ltd Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was CEO of Europe Lavoro S. p. A. and COFIDE S. p. A.
General Insurance for Zurich Financial Services and a Colin was formerly a member of the Executive Board member of the Italian Institute of Technology member of the Group Executive Committee.
Annette Committee of Tesco plc and during his 22 year is former CEO of the Direct Line Group formerly career at Tesco he held a wide range of positions, Chairman of the INSEAD Advisory Group in Italy known as RBS Insurance.
In this role Annette was also including UK Finance Director and CEO of Roger has significant international consulting a member of the RBS Group Executive Management TescoExpress.
Colin is a Chartered experience having been with McKinsey and Co. from Committee.
Annette has previously served as a ManagementAccountant.
1972 until his retirement as Director Emeritus in 2006. member on the Board of the Association of British Roger holds an MBA from INSEAD.
authored several books and currently writes for anItalian daily newspaper.
Changes to the Admiral Group Board in 2014 1 John Sussens will retire as a Director immediately following Admiral Groups 2014 AGM.
COMMITTEE KEY 2 Martin Jackson will retire as a Director immediately following Admiral Groups 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
RC Remuneration Committee member 3 Following receipt of regulatory approval, Jean Park was appointed to the Board with effect from 17January 2014.
AC Audit Committee member Following the departure of Martin Jackson and John Sussens, the Board Committees will undergo the NC Nomination Committee member following compositional changes: GRC Colin Holmes will replace John Sussens as Senior Independent Director SID Group Risk Committee member AnnetteCourt will replace John Sussens in the role of Remuneration Committee Chairman Jean Park will replace Martin Jackson as Group Risk Committee Chairman, in addition to joining the Committee Chairman  Thank you SID Senior Independent Director The Board would like to thank all of the staff and the management team at Admiral Group for everything they have done this year to help build such a successful and sustainably different business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 39 x ADM ar13 middle.
