REPORT OF THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE STATEMENT FROM MARTIN JACKSON CHAIRMAN OF THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE The work of the Committee is supported by more detailed work undertaken by Executive Risk Management Committees in each of the Groups operational entities.
The membership of the UK Risk Management Committee includes the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Offi cer.
Membership of the other UK and overseas Committees includes the Managing Director of the operation.
At each meeting, the Risk Management Committees consider signifi cant movements in the operations risk profi le, any risks that have arisen and any emerging risks.
Risk Management Committees also assess and monitor any regulatory issues, ensuring that their resolution and the action taken are appropriately recorded.
Inthe UK, the Risk Management Committee receives Dear Shareholder, regular information on conduct risk, such During the year the focus of the Committee remained on ensuring ascomplaint handling reports and other that the Group is able to operate within the Boards approved strategy management information.
and stated risk appetite and that the Groups risk management framework is appropriately structured and effectively implemented.
The Committee Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each The Committee is pleased to welcome Jean Park who joined the meeting on all matters within its duties and Committee on appointment in January 2014.
Jean brings a wealth responsibilities, as set out in previously of risk governance experience to the Committee gained during her circulated minutes to the Board.
The time as Group Chief Risk Offi cer for Phoenix Group.
Jean will take Committee Chairman also reports on the over from me as Chair of the Committee when I step down in April 2014. activities of the Committee in a formal Mindful of the need to keep under review and strengthen where written report that is submitted to and necessary the risk capability within the Group, James Armstrong discussed by the Board every six months.
has been appointed as Director of Risk.
Given his experience in this area, I am sure that James will be a valuable addition to the risk team.
In December 2013 the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness.
The process was led by the Chair of the Committee, with support from the Company Secretary, and consisted of each Committee member completing a questionnaire in which they Martin Jackson were asked to evaluate the performance Chairman of the Group Risk Committee ofthe Committee against set criteria that included time management and Committee 4 March 2014 composition: Committee processes and support: and priorities for change.
The results of the evaluation were discussed atthe Committee meeting in January 2014 and it was concluded that overall the M Me em mb be er rs sh hiip a p at t t th he e e en nd o d of t f th he y e ye ea ar w r wa as s: : r re eq qu uir ire em me en nt ts s, in inc clu lud din ing g o ov five er rs se eein eing g a an nd d Committee was operating effectively and A An nn ne et tt te C e Co ou ur rt t, M, Ma ar rt tiin J n Ja ac ck ks so on n C Ch ha aiir r, , c ch ha alllle en ng giin ng t g th he d e fide es siig gn a n an nd e d ex xe ec cu ut tiio on o n of f within its remit.
However, there were some David Stevens and John Sussens.
the Groups stress and scenario testing areas that were identifi ed for improvement, Ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness The Company Secretary acts as secretary including reducing the length of meetings of the Groups systems and controls tothe Committee.
The Committee met to improve the effectiveness of the Committee, forthe prevention of fi financial crime, fourtimes during the year.
with greater focus on the main risks affecting including prevention of bribery and the business and less time spent on The duties and responsibilities of the adequacy of anti-money laundering operational detail, which will continue Committee are set out in Terms of anddata protection systems and controls tobemonitored by the Risk department.
Reference that were approved by the Board Monitoring the adequacy and in January 2013 and updated and approved effectiveness of the Groups Internal Control and Risk Management in January 2014.
The responsibilities of the compliancefunctions The Board is ultimately responsible for Committee can be summarised as: theGroups system of internal control and, Reviewing the Groups progress towards Agreeing the Groups risk management through the Audit Committee, has reviewed achieving Solvency II compliance framework, including the remits of Risk the effectiveness of these systems.
The Reviewing compliance with Group Management Committees that are systems of internal control over business, policies, including the established established within each of the Groups operational, fi financial, and compliance risks Reserving Policy and process operational entities and overseeing the are designed to manage rather than eliminate Considering and recommending to risk management functions the risk of failure to achieve business objectives theBoard for approval the Groups risk and can only provide reasonable and not Monitoring the Groups prudential risk appetite, including any changes to the absolute assurance against material exposure, which includes ensuring that appetite for each material type of risk misstatement or loss.
the Groups capital resources and liquidity faced by the Group profi le are appropriate to its needs whilst meeting minimum regulatory Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 50 x ADM ar13 middle.
indd 50 10 03 2014 11:25:30 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION their risk management obligations, providing them with support and advice, and ensuring SUMMARY OF KEY ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 that the risk management strategy is properly communicated.
Reports are produced showing the most significant risks identified During the Year the Committee Reviewed the Following: and the controls in place.
Internal Audit uses the risk registers to plan and inform their programme of audits around the most significant risks to the Group to ensure that Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and profile of material risks the prescribed controls are in place and are operating effectively.
Considered the adequacy of risk mitigation measures and contingency plans The GRC, UK RMC and other UK and overseas Reviewed the Groups risk strategy in the context of the Groups agreed committees receive reports setting out key strategicobjectives performance and risk indicators and consider possible control issues brought to their Monitored the Groups progress towards implementation of Solvency II and plans attention by early warning mechanisms that for compliance with the EIOPA interim guidelines are embedded within the operational units.
They, together with the Audit Committee, Recommended to the Board approval ofthe Group Individual Capital Assessment also receive regular reports from the relevant internal audit functions, which include Approved the design and reviewed the results of the stress and scenario recommendations for improvement of the testingprogramme control and operational environment.
Twice a year the Chairman of the Group Risk Reviewed in-depth analysis of a number of the Groups most significant risk areas, Committee provides a comprehensive written including insurance risk in the UKCar Insurance operation report to the Board on the Groups risk appetite, risk strategy and risk management Monitored key risk indicators within the overall risk management framework policy with focus on a consideration of the principal assessed exposures and the Reviewed management information on conduct risk and complaints within the effectiveness of the mitigation strategies Group.
From January 2014 the Committee Chairman provides a quarterly written adopted.
In addition, the Board receives report to the Group Board on conduct risk and complaints reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee as to its activities, together with Reviewed its own Terms of Reference copies of the minutes of the UK RMC and the GRC and Audit Committees.
Approved a number of new revised key risk management policies The Audit Committees ability to provide the Received internal presentations on a number of key risk areas including appropriate assurance to the Board depends reinsurance, investment strategy and IT on the provision of periodic and independent confirmation, primarily by internal audit, that Reviewed its own effectiveness and sought to identify potential improvements that the controls established by management are could be made to the Committees oversight of risk management in the Group operating effectively and where appropriate provides a high-level challenge to the steps being taken by the GRC to implement the risk The Board is of the view that there is an of the policy by the UK Risk Management management strategy.
The internal audit ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Committee and the Groups other UK and functions undertake regular reviews of internal and managing the Groups internal controls: overseas entities through the application of control systems and business processes, that it has been in place for the year ended the Groups systems of internal control and identifying control weaknesses and making 31 December 2013: and that, up to the date risk management: and the overall assurance recommendations to management on of approval of the Annual Report and provided to the Audit Committee by internal improvements where necessary.
Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the audit that the systems operate effectively.
In March 2014 the Board carried out the Board and accords with the internal control The Board recognises that the day-to-day annual review of the effectiveness of the guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
responsibility for implementing these policies Groups system of internal controls for the must lie with the senior management whose A key element of the control system is that the 2013 year, also taking account of events operational decisions must take into account Board meets regularly with a formal schedule since 31 December 2013, by considering risk and how this can be controlled effectively.
of matters reserved to it for decision and has documentation from the Audit Committee The GRC reports on its activities to the put in place an organisational structure with including the Internal Audit Annual Report Audit Committee in support of the overall clearly defined lines of responsibility.
As prepared by the Groups Head of Internal Audit.
assurance provided by the Audit Committee described above, in order to ensure these that the Groups risk management and The Board confirms that there were no responsibilities are properly discharged, the compliance systems operate effectively.
significant issues arising during the year under Board has delegated the task of supervision review.
However, the Board continues to review of risk management to the Group Risk The Risk Department defines and prescribes the adequacy of the risk management and Committee GRC and of internal control the financial and operational risk assessment control framework.
As the Groups operations tothe Audit Committee.
processes for the business: maintains the risk grow, the Board looks for opportunities to registers: undertakes regular reviews of these There are several key elements to the risk make improvements and add appropriate risks in conjunction with line management: management environment throughout the resources when necessary.
and records any actual losses or near misses Group.
These include the setting of risk that occur as a consequence of the realisation management strategy, risk appetite and of risk.
The Head of Risk has responsibility riskpolicy by the GRC: dissemination of for ensuring that managers are aware of thatpolicy by the Chief Executive: delivery Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 51 x ADM ar13 middle.
