52 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE Board Evaluation It is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation of the Board, DrLongis independent.
Heronly connection with BG Group itsCommittees and the role of individual Directors in alternate years.
is her work with the Board onevaluation.
The 2013 Board evaluation process was facilitated by the Senior The results of the evaluation concluded that, overall, the Board Independent Director and the Committee Chairmen and covered operateseffectively within an environment that is both collegiate anumber of areas including: Board structure: Committees and their andchallenging.
In addition, the Committee structure in place, operation: shareholder andstakeholder communication: induction togetherwith theorderly and thoughtful refreshment of the Board anddevelopment: and risk management and internal control.
inrecent years, has ensured that an appropriate level of specialist DrTracyLong of Boardroom Review, who has conducted the past supportand assurance is available to the main Board.
twoexternal evaluation exercises, supported the Senior Independent Director in the review of prior feedback, the framing of the A review of the progress of the 2012 13 objectives, together conversations with fellow Directors and collating feedback.
withasummary of findings and proposed initiatives relating , is set out below: Evaluation summary 2012 Evaluation rECommEndations 2013 aCtions takEn Greater visibility andanalysis ofthe competitive landscape.
Industry and competitor trends were presented at the2013Board Planning Conference, with particular focus on theimplications for BG Group and itspeer groupcompanies.
Enhancements have also been made to the monthly Financial & Business Review provided to the Board, including information regarding analysts ratings andresearch report analysis.
Tailored induction and development programmes .
All Non-Executive Directors met with the Chairman andthe Company Secretary during the year to discuss theirdevelopment requirements andaformal andtailored training anddevelopment programme was puttotheSeptember Boardmeeting which will be administered .
In November, the Board visited the QCLNG project inBrisbane, Australia forthe 2013 overseas Board visit.
Teach-ins on crisis management preparedness to beincluded in the Crisis management preparedness was a Board discussion point throughout forwardagenda.
2013, with particular reference to the developing position in Egypt.
In addition, the Audit Committee received ongoing updates on business continuity andresilience during the year.
A crisis management exercise involving Board members isplanned for 2014.
To engender a more structured and integrated discussion onrisk Through the development of the Enterprise RiskManagement Framework, andriskmanagement atBoard level.
the Chairman, Chief Executive and Interim Chief Financial Officer worked toachieve amore integrated risk dialogue at the Board.
It is recognised that further focus isrequired to develop and embed integrated risk assessment techniques, however, and this is a clear priority for the new Chief Financial Officer and the Board in 2014.
To review the Groups organisational structure and corporate culture The Chief Executive and Executive Vice President, Human Resources HR as part of the wider review of the Groups long-term strategy.
provided theBoard with an HRstrategy update outlining the implications forBG Groups organisational structure andcorporate culture following the May 2013 strategy update.
Astrategic resourcing plan will be presented to the Board in 2014 and the Board will review in 2014 the results of an employee survey conducted in late2013 that addresses corporate culture and the employee value proposition.
rECommEndations for 2014 Further promotion of a more holistic, integrated and quantifiable discussion on risk and risk management at Board level.
Regular review of, and consideration oflearnings from, past investments and projects.
Development of a rolling agenda for Board dinners, with specific topics nominated for each, while leaving the Chairman and Chief Executive time to share early thinking or concerns informally.
Continued focus on macroeconomic and market developments and theimpact on the competitive landscape.
Further direct engagement between Board members and the business through tailored site visits, and smaller group engagements.
Targeted use ofexternal speakers to complement current Boarddebate.
Focus on executive succession planning.
Further work to ensure timely delivery of Board papers that highlight issues for debate.
In advance of the scheduled external evaluation of the Board in 2014, a tender process will be carried out for Board evaluation services to support continued transparency and best practice.
Details of the tender process will be included within the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 53 EnGaGEmEnt WitH sHarEHoldErs The Board supports the UK Stewardship Code andcontinues to make considerableefforts inestablishing and maintaining strong, purposeful relationships with all of our shareholders.
Following the announcement ofthe appointment of Chris Finlayson to the role ofChief Executive, Chris held a series of meetings with the Groups major shareholders to discuss his initial thoughts on the Groups strategy andto canvass their views.
The newstrategy was subsequently presented tothemarket in May.
Independent Audit, Retail Shareholder Briefing, London, November 2013. anindependent consultancy, fed back on the matters they might have in aconstructive strategy and this was followed by aprogramme manner in the spirit ofthe UKStewardship Code.
ofover 300 investor meetings held by senior management during the course of the year.
The next Annual General Meeting AGM is Board PlanninG ConfErEnCE due to be held in May 2014 and shareholders In addition, to deepen the markets are invited to engage with the Board ahead In June 2013, the Board held a two-day understanding of the two key pillars of the ofthe meeting and to attend where possible.
BoardPlanning Conference to discuss the Groups strategy its world class exploration and Full details of the business to be considered changing business environment for the unique LNG business a presentation on each atthe meeting can be found on page 150.
Group and the implications of the May 2013 component was held in September by the strategy for the Groups management month Event senior management of these functions, and structure and growth plans.
January New Chief Executive engagement was followed by a series ofinvestor meetings.
 The Board considered the global economic February Q4 results To reflect the Groups commitment to our andenergy market outlook, industry Investor roadshows with strongretail shareholder base, members of andcompetitor trends, and the growth executive management management and the investor relations team, opportunities and challenges in BG Groups May Q1 results together with the Company Secretary, also strategic business plan.
AGM metwith members of the UK Shareholders Investor roadshows with Association and ShareAction during the year.
TheBoard also discussed in detail the Groups executive management BG Group strategy presentation businesses in Egypt, witha detailed evaluation The Board regularly monitors the views of ofthe ongoing risks arising fromthe June Oil & Gas conferences shareholders and considers reports from investor Independent Audit feedback continuing unrest inthe country.
Asession onthenew strategy relations advisers with regard to institutional was also held on China, focusing on changes shareholder feedback.
During January 2014, July Q2 results to the macroeconomic development within the Chairman and Senior Independent Director the country and the continuing demand August Shareholder consultation regarding invited consultation with institutional andsupply dynamic oftheir gas market.
Long-Term Incentive Plan shareholders in relation to the proposed September Exploration & LNG Capital Markets Day Directors Remuneration Policy.
Thequality Andrew Hopkins, Emeritus Professor Oil & Gas conferences ofresponse from shareholders oncorporate ofSociology at the Australian National October Q3 results governance matters continues tovary widely University, presented on the organisational November Retail shareholder briefing and investors are encouraged toraise any andcultural causes of major accidents.
Board triP to australia The Board received a guided tour of the facilityfrom the QGC management team Site visits are a key part of the ongoing andsurveyed the gas compression station, development and training of all Directors, and theLNGstorage tanks and the pipeline terminal.
Australia is a key growth asset and central tothe Groups LNG strategy.
The visit also included a trip to see the construction of production facilities at the InNovember 2013, the Board visited Australia Ruby Jo Central Processing Plant.
The Directors to assess the progress of the Groups QCLNG travelled toone of the well sites to witness project inQueensland.
first-hand the process of extracting natural gas from coalseams.
Following this, the Directors During their visit, the Chairman and some visitedthe Groups first water treatment Board members, Patrick Thomas, Chris Finlayson and MarkSeligman on a tour of the QCLNG plant site, CurtisIsland members of the Sustainability Committee met plantat theKenya facility, west of Chinchilla, with Mitch Ingram, Managing Director, QGC.
with members of the new Federal Government, which began operating mid-year.
This was including the new Prime Minister and the particularly interesting for members of the Minister for Federal Resources.
The Board also Sustainability Committee who had been For 2014, the Company Secretary has agreed a met informally with members of the Queensland monitoring progress towards completion programme of site visits for each Non-Executive Government Cabinet.
A number of Directors ofthe Kenya facility during 2013.
Director tailored to their individual expertise flew to Gladstone to visit Curtis Island and anddevelopment needs.
This will also provide sawthe progress being made in preparing Meetings of the Board, Audit and Sustainability greater coverage for Non-Executive Director forthe commissioning of the first train Committees were held, with all Directors who engagement across the Groupsportfolio attheLNGplant.
Corporate governanCe 54 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE Board induCtion Board and BG Groups Board and On joining BG Group, all Directors receive a governance Committeestructure, matters full, formal induction programme, tailored reserved for the Board, and totheir specific requirements and delivered I found the induction wellCommittee terms of reference over a number of months.
An overview of the UK corporate Myinitial meetings with senior The Groups aim is to provide a deep governance landscape and the management were bolstered understanding of the BG Group business Groups approach to compliance byanumber of site visits to key andorganisation, the Groupsoperations Group locations and discussions Audit Committee induction andthegovernance environment.
with staff at various levels andmeetings with the Chairman withinthe organisation.
of the Audit Committee, the In 2013, the Group provided aprogramme external auditors and the Head forSimon Lowth, ournew ChiefFinancial My first impressions were of ofGroup Audit Officer, and a tailoredprogramme for ahigh-quality team working LimHaw-Kuang, a Non-Executive Director Restrictions and processes for inanopen and collaborative andAudit Committee member.
dealing in BG Group shares environment.
BG Group An overview of the Groups A summary of the induction programme LIM Haw-KuanG approach to integrated assurance provided to Haw-Kuang issetout to nOn-EXECuTIVE DIRECTOR theright.
New Directors are encouraged An overview of the Groups toaccelerate their knowledge of the Group strategy and an introduction byvisiting key assets during their first tothe views of keyinvestors yearand Haw-Kuang visited the following Technical Introductory meetings with key aspartofhis induction process: input members of the Group Executive and senior management team, Australia: including those charged with Brazil: delivery of the exploration and Houston: LNG strategic agendas Tanzania: and Trinidad and Tobago.
traininG and dEvEloPmEnt BG Group Directors are expected to The programme is split into the following The Executive Directors also receive committocontinuing their development fourareas to provide Non-Executive Directors thebenefit offormal teach-ins provided during theirtenure, and theChairman and with a flexible, rather than a mandatory, atscheduled Board meetings throughout Company Secretary meet annually with schedule, from which they may select theyear which aim to ensure the full Board eachNon-Executive Director todiscuss toattend events andmeetings that build remainsuptodate with key developments theirworkwith the Board and agree ontheirown areas ofexpertise and interest, inthebusiness environment in which the individual development goals.
and that meet theiragreed development aims: Group operates.
Topics considered during 2013 included theGroups approach to In response to a recommendation arising informal discussion groups and meetings, crisismanagement, the new remuneration outof the 2012 Board evaluation process, tomeet senior management and operational, landscape focusing on trends ofthe aformalNon-Executive Director training and technical or functionalheads: shareholder vote on pay policy in 2014, development programme was introduced andteach-ins for theBoard on Group formal teach-ins at scheduled meetings, in2013.
The programme has brought together technology, information technology, atleast four each year at Board meetings avariety of informal briefings, technical globalshipping and environmental and andatleast two Audit and Remuneration updates and external programmes to support socialand governance matters ESG, as Committee briefings: the ongoing development of each Nonwellasinvestor relations andHRupdates.
Executive Director in a structured manner.
asset site visits, Directors are encouraged Theprogramme is intended to inform proactively to make visit suggestions to In addition, theCompany Secretary theChairmans annual conversation with theChairman and Company Secretary and providedthe Board withregular updates eachDirector regarding their development.
mayalsoelect to accompany Executive in2013 ontheoverall regulatory and TheCompany Secretary facilitates this Directorsorsenior management on corporate governance landscape and programme and maintains individual training scheduledvisits: and specificdevelopments relevant tothe and development logs for each Non-Executive Group, the Board and itsCommittees.
external training programmes, such as Director, to which the Chairman has access.
theacademies facilitated by a number oflargeaccountancy firms, and aimed at  population.
Australasia Australasia Asia Asia 9 Africa & 9 Africa & Industry years Middle East Industry years Middle East Diplomatic & Diplomatic & 6-9 6-9 The The Government years Government years Americas Americas 3-6 3-6 Finance years Finance years Europe Europe 0-3 0-3 Extractive Extractive years International years International BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 55 divErsity Board divErsity Diversity at Board level Gender diversity disclosure a The Board recognises that diversity is the key By sector experience by number IGender diversity within BG Group n accordance with the new Compa % nies foundation for introducing different perspectives Act2006 the Act reporting requirements, Female into Board debate and for better anticipating the disclosure isprovided below in respect Male risks and opportunities in building a long-term, ofgender diversity at Board level, senior 83 17 sustainable business.
Gender remains an important management including diBoard rectors of aspect of the overall diversity to which chairmen subsidiary companies and in the organisation should have regard in establishing optimal Board asa whole, as at 31 December 2013. balance and composition.
The Nominations 6 8 7 9 a Committee supports the Board in this regard and By sector experience by number Gender diversity within BG Group % further details are set out in the Nominations Female Committee report on page 61.
Male 83 17 The BG Group Diversity Statement Board In January 2013, the GEC endorsed a Group b By tenure by number Diversity Statement to underscore the commitment todiversity at senior management 6 8 7 9 c level and tointroduce a number of initiatives 79 21 72 28 Senior Organisation topromote diversity, particularly gender, within management as a whole theGroups organisation as a whole.
At that time, theGEC and Board also endorsed the setting ofatarget against which, over time, the impact 7 4 2 1 of those initiatives could be assessed.
b By tenure by number We believe that we will deliver better and c 79 21 72 28 moresustainable results if we have a culture Senior Organisation where different perspectives are encouraged a management as a whole By geographical experience by number and considered.
To achieve this, we aim to c BG Group considers that a more meaningful measure build a workforce that is diverse in ethnicity, of senior management than that defined by the Act gender, background and approach.
7 4 2 1 is employees in leadership positions, in line with the definition used within the Groups Diversity Statement.
We aspire to increase the proportion of At31December 2013, 13% of employees in leadership positions were female.
The figures for the Board, women in leadership positions to an overall followingchanges that took place on 1 January 2014, 20% by 2020. aremale 79% and female 21%.
a By geographical experience by number Group diversity statement, January 2013.
Board EnGaGEmEnt on GEndEr divErsity 14 11 5 5 4 3 In December 2013, the Board re-confirmed itscommitment to the January 2013 statement butalso agreed to extend its policy on diversity to set ameasurable objective at Board level.
At 31 December 2013 TheBGGroup Board aspires to increase the Additional Directors from 1 January 2014 onwards proportion of women on the Board to 25% by2015.
14 11 5 5 4 3 a Where a Director is considered to have experience in either Board diversity statement, december 2013. multiple sectors or geographies, they have been recognised inallrelevant areas.
b I ncludes both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Initiatives in diversity Vivienne Cox speaking at the Womens Network event Calculated in full years from date of appointment during the Boards visit toAustralia in November 2013.
During the year, the Group has made progress to31December 2013. against these statements and, in particular, At 31 December 2013 Additional Directors from 1 January 2014 onwards itachieved the following: the appointment of a new Head of Diversity initiative and ensuring itreaches a diverse provision of global support and funding and Inclusion: population of students: totheWomens Network, including the expansion of the EarlyCareer Professionals development of a Diversity and Inclusion a research programme that captured, on an Network Australia andUSA andthe Strategy to achieve the aims of the Group anonymous basis, the views of the Chairman, introduction of aBGPride network from Diversity Statement: GEC members, and asample of male and 2014:and female employees insenior and middle a global review of BG Groups science, management, to understand better the factors the piloting of programmes aimed at providing technology, engineering and mathematics limiting progression forwomen in the Group: targeted support to BG Group employees, STEM initiatives, to consider the difference including support for dual career couples, inimpact on female andmale participants: introduction of a Diversity Code of Conduct suchas for atrailing partner on arrivalin forsearch firms to adopt when supporting research into the barriers andopportunities for anewlocation underway in USA, Egypt, BGGroups recruitment efforts atall levels: women through STEM education.
The Group andUK and a working parents programme remains committed toits STEM agenda inAustralia and theUK.
Corporate governanCe 56 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE audit CommittEE members appointed attendance Last year brought the February 2010 needto reach balanced Mark Seligman Chairman 8 8 December 2010 judgements on impairments Baroness Hogg January 2005 8 8 in Egypt and the USA.
Risk Dr John Hood July 2007 8 8 management, business Caio Koch-Weser April 2012 8 8 Lim Haw-Kuang April 2013 5 5 planning and forecasting are Patrick Thomas February 2011 7 8 areas of extra focus in 2014.
The Audit Committee plays a pivotal role in tax assets and uncertain tax positions: and and performance ofthe Groups external thereview of the effectiveness of BG Groups themethodology involved in the estimation auditors: and the independence and financial reporting and internal control processes oftheGroups reserves.
and, for this reason, comprises only independent Relationship with the external auditors Non-Executive Directors.
Ernst& Young LLP EY undertook their first Details of the work carried out by the Committee quarterly review on behalf of the Group in the inaccordance with its terms of reference and in There are specific duties attributed to the first quarter of 2013.
TheCommittee is satisfied addressing significant issues arereported to the Committee which areset out in its terms that theyhave beeneffective throughout the Board as a matter of courseby the Chairman of ofreference, mirroring the recommendations year, andwe have welcomed the new challenge the Committee andare described in this report.
ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
and fresh perspective that the change in The terms ofreference for the Committee can be Through the effective discharge of this role, auditor has brought to the Committees found atwww.
com auditcommittee the Committee seeks to reassure shareholders considerations.
that their interests are properly protected Committee membership inrespect ofthe Companys Internal Control In addition to its routine business, I have In April, Lim Haw-Kuang was appointed as a member Framework and risk management processes.
agreed with the Chairman and management of theCommittee and, on 1 January 2014, Baroness that there will be several key focus areas for Hogg retired as a member of the Committee There are a number of key elements to this, starting the Committee during 2014.
Firstly, we will following the completion ofnine yearsofservice with assessing whether the Group has robust continue to support, review and challenge, on with the Board.
Mark Seligman, achartered systems and procedures for recognising assets and amore regular basis, financial and production accountant, has been determined bythe Board as liabilities whose value is recorded accurately data, and the assurance processes that support the member ofthe Committee having recent and and fairly.
The Group must have suitable that data provision.
In particular, the Committee relevant financial experience, asrequired by the accounting policies and practices, supported will continue to support the Board with Code.
Allmembers of the Committee are deemed by responsible exercise of judgement, so that thein-depth review of internal controls tobeindependent andthe Committee has the financial statements produced arereliable and underpinning managements business planning concluded that its membership meets the give the true and fair view expected.
In support and forecasting processes.
Secondly, the requirements of the Code.
Meetings are normally ofall of this are the Groups risk management Committee willfocus on supporting Simon attended by theChairman, theChief Executive, processes and associated internal controls that are Lowth in reviewing and challenging the the Chief FinancialOfficer, theGroup Financial monitored and assured through the Integrated management and reporting of risk aspart of Controller, theHead ofGroupAudit and Assurance Framework, in which the Internal theGroups Integrated Assurance Framework.
Control Framework, Group Audit and the Finally, theCommittee will monitor the external auditors allplay an important part.
Groups adoption of the SPE PRMS reserves Performance review and resources classification system and The Audit Committees performance was The Committee reviews all of these activities associated disclosures.
Detailed and regular assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness tosupport the production of that information review of the Groups going concern position, review.
It was concluded that the Committee whether in the quarterly financial statements with appraisal of forecast cash flows and operated effectively.
or in this report which shareholders can expect appropriate levels of stress testing will also toportray a fair, balanced and understandable remain priority areas for the Committee.
aCtivitiEs of tHE audit CommittEE assessment of the Companys position and durinG tHE yEar prospects and on which they can base any MaRK SELIGMan investment decisions.
CHaIRMan OF THE auDIT COMMITTEE The Committee has an annual forward agenda, developed from its terms of reference, with The Code invites the Committee to report onthe standing items that the Committee considers significant issues considered during the year.
Full Role of the Committee ateach meeting in addition to any specific details are contained on the opposite page, but The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling matters arising and topical business or financial from my perspective the most important were: its responsibilities in respect of: overseeing items on which the Committee has chosen BGGroups financial reporting processes: tofocus.
Thework of the Committee in 2013 Issues considered in relation to the financial reviewing, challenging and approving significant principally fell into three main areas: statements There were four key areas of accounting judgements proposed by management: judgement: the recoverability of the Groups theway in which management ensures and Accounting, tax and financial reporting assets in Egypt, including receivables: the monitors the adequacy of financial and reviewing the integrity of the quarterly, recoverable amount of the US Lower 48 assets: compliance controls and business risk half-year and annual financial statements and the recognition and measurement of deferred management andassurance processes: the theattendant significant financial reporting appointment, remuneration, independence judgements anddisclosures: Membership as at 31 December 2013.
For full biographies see pages 48 and 49.
Patrick Thomas was unable to attend the meeting of the Committee held in April due to a competing engagement with the board ofBayer MaterialScience AG where he is chief executive.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 57 kEy arEas of foCus Set out in the table below is a summary of key matters considered by the Committee during 2013.
Key issues covered by the Committee arereported the following day to the subsequent meeting of the Board, and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
issue key considerations the role of the Committee Conclusion Egypt Throughout 2013, the Group continued The Committee, supported by the challenge In January 2014, the Group confirmed that it had tomonitor the political and economic ofthe external auditors, considered on elected to issue Force Majeure notices under uncertainty inEgypt and the related risk anongoing basis the continuing impact its LNG agreements following higher than oftherecoverability of assets, including ofthepolitical and economic uncertainty expected diversions to the domestic market theposition on domestic receivables and andthe volume of diversions to the during 2013.
The position on domestic thediversion of gas to thedomestic market.
domesticmarket and whether it remained receivables marginally improved with the appropriate to continue torecord receivables year-end balance reduced to $1.2bn and fromtheEgyptian General Petroleum management continue to believe this is Corporation at full value and without recoverable.
The Committee will continue provision or discounting during 2013. toprovide robust challenge to management ontheir judgements in this regard.
Impairment The Groups procedures include performing The Committee reviewed and challenged As part of the Groups fourth quarter and indicators areview ofpotential impairment triggers.
assumptions made by management in full-year results process, the Group revised During2013, particular consideration was theirassessment of impairment indicators.
itsexpectations of the value of its US shale given to Egypt, the Lower 48 exploration They alsosought assurances from EYthat they gasinvestments and recorded a non-cash andproduction assets, offshore Europes concurred with assumptions underpinning post-tax impairment of $1.1bn.
A non-cash Bream assets following the agreement of managements judgement ineach case and post-tax impairment of $1.3bn was realised saleinthe second quarter and certain other that all judgements hadbeen undertaken inEgypt based on reserves revisions and upstream assets.
revised expectations of the value of the GroupsEgyptian operations.
Production Following the results announcement for The Committee held an ad hoc meeting Following the announcement inJanuary thethird quarter of 2012 and therevision of inJanuary 2013 to consider in detail the 2014concerning revisions to the Groups the Groups production outlook for2012 and processes in place to support the adequate outlook for 2014, the Committee will work 2013, and thesubsequent market reaction, consideration of production and reserves data.
withmanagement to continue toreview theCommittee reviewed theprocesses andchallenge the processes supporting supporting managements production and business planning and forecasting.
reserves forecasts and business planning.
Review of West The Reserves Committee approved the The Committee received regular reports from The conclusions from the M&L independent Delta Deep commissioning of an external reserves theReserves Committee on the progress review supported the Reserves Committees Marine WDDM reviewof WDDM by Miller & Lents M&L ofthe M&L review and, in the fourth quarter, approved reserves estimates used during the Reserves using both a probabilistic anddeterministic reviewed the results in detail with the Head Egypt impairment analysis.
ofthe Corporate Reserves Group and the Executive Vice President, BG Advance.
Deferred tax The Group regularly reviews the judgements The Committee reviewed managements As part of the Groups fourth quarter and assets and and assumptions associated with significant determinations in relation to the Groups fullyear results process, the Committee uncertain tax deferred tax asset positions.
Particular business forecasts in Australia and North made further challenges to management positions consideration was given to Australia and North America.
They also sought and received andalso considered reports from EY.
America following outcomes from business assurance from EY that they concurred planning processes in the fourth quarter.
withmanagements judgements regarding The Committee continued to support that deferred tax assets positions.
the judgements and assumptions made The Groups methodology for reviewing bymanagement in relation to deferred thelevel of provisions held in relation to key The Committee also reviewed managements taxassets and uncertain tax positions tax uncertainties was refined during 2013. assumptions and challenged the main arereasonable.
Themain areas of judgement are reviewed areasofjudgement relating to significant ona regular basis and adjustments made to uncertain tax positions and with support keep provisions within a reasonable range fromEY agreed that, whilethis remained ofpossible outcomes.
ajudgemental area, theview formed by management was considered reasonable.
considering the liquidity risk and the basis for the effectiveness of the disclosure controls reviewing matters reported to the external preparing the quarterly, half-year and annual and procedures designed to ensure the whistleblowing hotline and a report from financial statements on a going concern basis, Annual Report and Accounts complies theECCU: and andreviewing the related disclosures in the withall relevant legal and regulatory assessing the effectiveness of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts: requirements: and internalcontrol environment and making reviewing updates on accounting matters, the process designed to ensure the external recommendations to the Board.
including consideration of relevant accounting auditors are aware of all relevant audit standards and underlying assumptions: information, as required by Sections 418 External auditors reviewing the processes to assure the and419 of the Act.
monitoring the transition to EY as the Groups integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts, external auditors: in particular: Internal controls and risk considering and approving the audit approach the reserves and resources booking process: considering reports from Group Audit: andscope of the audit work to be undertaken by the management representation letter considering the level of alignment between EY as external auditors and thefees for thesame: tothe external auditors: theCompanys key risks and internal agreeing reporting materiality thresholds: the disclosures in relation to internal auditprogramme: reviewing reports on audit findings: controls, risk management, principal risks reviewing the resources of the Group Audit considering and approving letters of and the work of theCommittee: function and considering and approving representationissued to EY: and that the information presented in the report, thescope of the Group Audit programme: considering the independence of EY and when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and considering the effectiveness of Group Audit: theireffectiveness, taking into account: understandable and contains the information considering reports from the external non-audit work undertaken by the necessary for shareholders to assess the auditorson their assessment of the external auditors: Companys performance, business model controlenvironment: feedback from a survey targeted at and strategy: reviewing the Groups approach to cyber security: variousstakeholders: and the Committees own assessment.
Corporate governanCe 58 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE audit CommittEE ContinuEd intErnal Control BGGroup operates within a Governance Framework which encompasses three keyareas: 1 organisation and structure: 2 risk management and internal control: and 3 independent assurance.
The organisation and structure of risk management and internal control within BG Group BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reviews Internal Control Framework ICF integrity and suggests remediation plans Ensures an effective principal risk management process Annual review of the overall internal control environment Makes recommendations to the Board GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE GEC RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE RESERVES COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE RESERVES COMMITTEE Oversees Enterprise Risk Management Oversees operation of the ICF Manages reserves policy and process ERM Framework and Business Risk Reviews reports from Group Audit, Reviews and challenges the Groups Management Process BRMP Legal, Ethical Conduct Compliance Unit, reserves and resources estimates Indenties and reviews the Groups Speak Up and the Company Secretary Makes recommendations to the principal risks Audit Committee Makes recommendations to GEC and the Board The Disclosure Committee is also a sub-Committee of the GEC and reports on an annual basis to the Audit Committee regarding internal controls in relation to the Groups disclosure obligations.
See page 47 for more details.
Further detail on the Groups organisation and structure is set out on page47.
The terms of reference of each Board Committee are availableto download from www.
com governance Risk management and internal control with the Guidance, on an annual basis, Committee took account ofthefurther work The Board has overarching responsibility asdisclosed in the Directors disclosure being undertaken by the ChiefFinancial Officer forBGGroups risk management and internal statement on page 82. in 2014 to increase the scope and frequency control systems, in accordance with the ofplanning and forecast information to the guidance set out in the Code and Internal Based on its review, the Audit Committee Board, and to integrate, simplify and embed Control: Guidance to Directors formerly the reported to the Board that it was satisfied that the Group-wide ERM Framework and reporting.
Turnbull Guidance and is heavily influenced the Groups overall risk management and internal bythe Committee of Sponsoring Organizations control systems in place for the period 1 January BG Groups ability to assess, influence and ofthe Treadway Commission COSO framework 2013 to the date of this report were effective.
control the risk management and internal the Guidance.
Continued focus in 2014 will be given by the control environment within its joint ventures Audit Committee and the Board to the Groups varies and in some cases may be limited, as The Board assesses the effectiveness of planning and forecasting, and risk management, disclosed in the Principal risks and uncertainties theoverall internal control environment and systems and processes.
The Group endeavours to influence reports the Groups compliance, in accordance effectiveness report tothe Board, the joint ventures to adopt improved standards, controls and procedures where BG Group feelscurrent practices do not adequately addresssignificant risks, or may result in BUSINESS PRINCIPLES sub-optimal performance.
15 statements of values and behaviours BG Groups system of internal control provides reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance POLICIES against material loss or misstatement and define how BG Group operates and isdesigned to manage, rather than eliminate, the expectations for business delivery the risk of fraud or failure to achieve business objectives.
Projections of any evaluation of STANDARDS effectiveness to future periods are subject Group requirements for specic activities tothe risk that the system of internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance GUIDELINES with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Best practice implementation advice on Business Principles, Policies and Standards BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 59 BG Groups approach to risk assessment indEPEndEnt assuranCE ofEYin accordance with theauthority given andmanagement, and internal control, is toitby shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
The articulated and managed through the Groups Independent assurance augments the Groups Committee considered the proposed auditors ERM Framework.
Further details are set out governance.
There are three key pillars of remuneration to beappropriate.
independent assurance: Group audit, external audit and reserves and resources assurance.
It is proposed that EY be re-appointed as Internal Control Framework auditors of the Company at the next AGM in The ICF is a key element of the Groups overall Group Audit May 2014 and, if so re-appointed, that they will Governance Framework, and defines, in an Group Audit provides assurance to the Board, hold office until the conclusion of the next explicit hierarchy, the way in which the Group Audit Committee, GEC and management general meeting of the Company at which operates.
Compliance with Policies and Standards andin particular: accounts are laid.
Further details are set is mandatory to ensure that BG Group operates outinthe Notice of Meeting on page 150. inaccordance with itsBusiness Principles.
provides objective, independent assurance TheGovernance Committee oversees compliance andadvice to Group management and The Group will continue the practice of the with theBusiness Principles by ensuring the theAudit Committee on the effective rotation of the audit engagement partner at ICFcontainsthe appropriate Policies, Standards andefficient operation of the governance leastevery five years, and all other partners andGuidelines and during theyear introduced andinternal control processes in place and senior management will be required aStandards Charter toprovide enhanced toidentify and manage business risks: and torotate at least every seven years.
clarification on how Standards will be createdandapplied.
as part of BG Groups integrated approach The independent external auditors report torisk, assurance and audit, acts as a third toshareholders is set out on page 86.
The Boards conclusion on the effectiveness of lineof defence through its coordinating the Groups system of internal control is reached roleinmonitoring the effectiveness of both non-audit fees following completion of a robust tiered assurance management controls and other assurance The Committee believes that non-audit process which culminates in Governance activities in addressing business risk.
workmay only be undertaken by the Committee and Group Executive Committee externalauditors in limited circumstances.
GEC review and approval of the Letters of Group Audit gives particular regard to the TheCommittee monitors the target that Assurance LoAs.
LoAsare submitted by each ongoing evaluation of the efficacy of the ICF non-audit fees do not exceed 15% of the GEC member and the Company Secretary to ingoverning BG Groups financial reporting totalaudit fee in any year.
theChief Executive, inrelation tothe control and consolidation processes.
environment in their area ofresponsibility.
Focus is given to ensuring that engagement Each LoA is supported by the results of the External auditors fornon-audit services does not: i create Governance Self-Assessment GSA process, The Audit Committee manages the relationship aconflict of interest: ii place the auditors which requires management-level reporting to with the Groups external auditors, on behalf inaposition toaudit their own work: iii the GEC and Company Secretary to assess the of the Board.
The Company last undertook resultintheauditors acting as a manager effectiveness of the Standards within their areas atender for external audit services during oremployee: or iv put the auditors in the of responsibilities, and to report instances of 2012and, as detailed inthe 2012 Annual Report roleofadvocate forBG Group.
non-compliance, aswell as material weaknesses and Accounts, EYwere appointed asthe Groups or significant deficiencies.
EYs appointment was The Committee regularly reviews the nature approved byshareholders at the 2013 Annual ofnon-audit work performed by the auditors The Group operates a Speak Up Policy through General Meeting AGM.
and the volume of that work.
An analysis which it aims to create the climate and opportunity offees paid in respect of audit and non-audit for employees and third parties to voice genuinely During the year, the Committee carried out services provided by the external auditor held concerns about behaviour ordecisions itsannual assessment of the auditors and inposition at that time for the past two years that they perceive to be contrary tothe BG Group reported to the Board on its findings.
To support isdisclosed on page 102.
Having undertaken Business Principles or the mandatory elements this assessment, Committee members and areview of the non-audit services provided ofthe system of internal control.
relevant members of management were during the year, the Committee is satisfied invited to complete a questionnaire on their that these services were provided efficiently The Governance Committee also considers views about the auditors performance during by the external auditors as a result of their reports from Group Audit, theEthical Conduct the year.
The feedback received was reviewed by existing knowledge of the business and Compliance Unit and other assurance providers management and reported to the Committee.
didnotprejudice their independence across BG Group, and the results areformally In addition, the Committee reviewed the Audit orobjectivity.
reported to theGEC and Audit Committee Inspection Units public report on the 2012 13 forrecommendation to theBoard.
Aftertaking these reports Reserves and resources assurance into consideration, together with the auditors Degolyer and MacNaughton and Miller and During 2013, work continued on the Integrated report on their approach to audit quality and Lentsprovide independent assurance of the Assurance Framework IAF which aligns the transparency, the Committee concluded Groups estimates of its gas and oil reserves planned or completed internal and independent thattheauditors demonstrated appropriate and resources, including the resources profile assurance to risks reported through the BRMP.
qualifications andexpertise and remained ofcertain assets.
This assurance provides An integrated assurance plan for 2014 and independent ofBG Group, and that the akeybenchmark by which the Reserves beyond has been putin place and enhancements auditprocess waseffective.
Committee and the Audit Committee can were made tothe integrated scheduling and thenassess the validity of the judgements reporting ofaudit and assurance reviews.
Following the tender process and the made in the calculation of the Groups Thisinitiative has allowed BG Group to allocate appointment of EY, the Committee reviewed reservesand resources.
assurance resources in arisk-based manner.
theproposed engagement letter and determined the proposed remuneration Corporate governanCe 60 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CorPoratE GovErnanCE sustainaBility CommittEE members appointed attendance The Committee has spent Sir David Manning November 2008 5 5 asubstantial proportion Peter Backhouse December 2005 4 5 ofits time during 2013 Vivienne Cox April 2012 5 5 considering the Licence Chris Finlayson April 2013 4 4 toOperate risks inherent Andrew Gould September 2011 5 5 Dr John Hood July 2007 5 5 innew country entry.
Caio Koch-Weser December 2010 5 5 Safety remains paramount in the considerations The Committee also reviewed key developments aCtivitiEs of tHE sustainaBility of the Sustainability Committee.
As part of our in the management of ethical conduct.
In 2013, CommittEE durinG tHE yEar focus on safety, the Committee reviewed HSSE efforts to ensure continuing high standards During the year, the Committees key and asset integrity performance in BG Groups ofethical conduct included incorporating activitiesincluded: operations during the year.
In particular, the ethical conduct due diligence and risk considering the Groups HSSE and asset Committee was pleased to note the continued management into contract sourcing and integrity performance, including the progress improvement in QGCs total recordable case contract management processes.
ofthe Major Accident Hazard campaign: frequency TRCF and that, by the end of 2013, reviewing the Groups approach to human rights: QGC was considered a leading safety performer SIR DaVID MannInG considering the changing socio-political in the Australian coal seam gasindustry by CHaIRMan OF THE SuSTaInaBILITY COMMITTEE environment in key assets and in potential thismetric.
newcountry entry opportunities: reviewing the Groups social investment strategy: As part of the Committees focus on safety Role of the Committee reviewing progress to develop projects during the year, we reviewed progress on The Committee reviews and scrutinises tosupport the Group in meeting its target theenhanced asset integrity programme in BGGroups work in engaging with its stakeholders forGHG emissions to 2017: the North Sea and the successful shutdown in government, the political world, civil society, reviewing the Groups water management ofactivities at the Karachaganak field, which the media and the communities in areas where strategy in Australia ahead of the opening of wascompleted with no injuries and ahead the Group already operates, or may operate the first facility at the Kenya water treatment ofschedule.
In the summer, the Committee inthe future.
In this work, the Committee facility in mid 2013: and also placed a particular focus on the processes supports the establishment and maintenance reviewing the Groups management followed for the safe and successful evacuation ofthe Groups Business Principles and its ofethicalconduct.
of employees and their families from Egypt.
Detailed terms of TheCommittee was encouraged by the Groups reference for the Committee can be found at Visit to Australia continued prioritisation of safety in these very www.
com  In November 2013, members of the Committee different, but equally challenging, environments.
visited Australia as a part of the wider Board visit.
Relevant skills and experience The visit coincided with changes in the State During 2013, Chris Finlayson set out his strategy During 2013, the Committee comprised both andFederal governments in Queensland and forthe Group.
This included a keen focus on Executive and Non-Executive Directors who Australia.
The Chairman and other members early-stage origination, discovery and development.
brought a broad range of skills, experience and ofthe Committee attended meetings with the Insupport of this strategic aim, the Committee has knowledge in relation to international finance new Federal government in Canberra where they spent a substantial proportion of its time during andbusiness leadership, geopolitical and discussed QCLNG progress with Australias Prime 2013 considering the Licence to Operate risks socio-economic matters, and the extractive Minister, Tony Abbott, federal ministers and inherent in new country entry.
Following the results of the 2013 the opposition leadership team.
During these Chairman, Ihave also welcomed a regular report Committee evaluation process, the Board meetings, the Chairman emphasised the Groups from management providing a holistic overview of hasagreed that, owing to the Committees determination that the QCLNG project be new country entry opportunities being considered heavy focus on safety and Licence toOperate implemented in partnership with communities by the Group.
This report has allowed the matters, it would be prudent toreinforce and government such that it isenvironmentally Committee todraw out key themes for theindependence of the Committee.
As a acceptable and benefits as many stakeholders widerconsideration and also to consider the result, from 1 January 2014, the Committee as possible.
The Committee also met formally aggregate Licence toOperate risk of the membership does not include any Executive while in Brisbane todiscuss key Licence to combination ofthe potential opportunities.
Further details of the Board andBaroness Hogg joined the Committee visitcan be found on page 53.
In the last annual report, I was pleased to confirm on1January 2014. that the Group had achieved its greenhouse 2014 priorities and performance review gas GHG emissions reduction target for 2012.
Meetings of the Committee are normally The Sustainability Committees performance During 2013, the Committee has considered attended by the Executive Vice President, wasassessed as part of the Boards Annual the proposed introduction of a methane emissions Policy and Corporate Affairs and the Executive Effectiveness Review.
It was concluded that strategy and this work will continue into 2014 Vice President, BG Advance, together with theCommittee operated effectively.
under the new Head of Environment and other members of senior management Climate Change who will work closely with tosupport detailed discussion.
The Committee will continue to focus in theCommittee on this subject.
2014on evolving political, regulatory and environmental issues and risks.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Corporate governance 61 nominations CommittEE members appointed attendance The Committee undertook Andrew Gould May 2012 8 8 arigorous review of Baroness Hogg May 2005 8 8 theprocesses in place for Dr John Hood October 2011 7 8 theidentification and Sir David Manning December 2010 7 8 development of senior management with potential for Board and GEC positions.
During 2013, the Nominations Committee and Executive Director was discussed by the candidates for the Board.
Both JCA Group focused heavily on succession planning at Committee on two occasions during 2013, andKorn Ferry are independent and are both Board and senior management level.
A aheadof the announcement of the successful signatories to the VCC.
key part of this focus was the rigorous review candidate, Simon Lowth, in July.
The Board of the processes in place for the identification managed the rigorous and comprehensive Conflicts of interest and development of senior management succession process and, on the recommendation The Committee spent a notable proportion withpotential for Board and GEC positions.
ofthe Committee, Mr Lowths ultimate ofitstime during the year considering the external appointment.
The services of an external search commitments of existing and potential Directors Role of the Committee consultant, Egon Zehnder, were retained in relation to both the independence provisions The Committee reviews regularly and, where toassist inidentifying potential candidates.
set out in the Code and the requirements appropriate, makes recommendations to the EgonZehnder is independent and is asignatory inrelation to conflicts ofinterest, as set out in Board regarding the balance of skills, experience, tothe Voluntary Code of Conduct VCC on theCompanies Act the Act.
In line with the independence and knowledge of BG Group onthe gender diversity and bestpractice.
statement onpage 82, thereare no matters Board, and in its Committees.
The Committee inrelation to Directors independence required pays particular consideration to matters of Overall Board composition tobe disclosed in thisreport and, following diversity.
Onan annual basis, the Committee The Committee considered succession planning recommendations from the Committee, the considers the re-election of Directors prior to for the role of Chief Operating Officer, following Board has put in place appropriate procedures their recommended approval byshareholders.
notification that Martin Houston intended to manage any actual, potential or perceived tostepdown as an Executive Director and situational conflicts of interest that may arise.
During the year, the Committee invited a ChiefOperating Officer during November 2013. number of additional attendees to its meetings, TheCommittee agreed with management that Diversity including other Committee Chairmen and the Sami Iskander, theexisting Executive Vice The Committee considered diversity within Chief Executive, toprovide advice and enable President, Operations, possessed the appropriate theGroup as a whole, including gender, and theCommittee tomake informed decisions.
balance ofglobal market and operational inparticular the progress and effectiveness experience and specialised BGGroup knowledge ofthe initiatives implemented at a Group and aCtivitiEs of tHE nominations toassume therole.
The Committee endorsed their CommittEE durinG tHE yEar continued development and further details In addition, the Committee noted the decision of ofthese initiatives are set out on page 55.
New Senior Independent Director Peter Backhouse to retire from the Board atthe The Committee focused on the appointment conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, In addition, following the introduction of the ofthe Groups new Senior Independent in recognition of his near 14-year service on new reporting requirements under the Act Director following Baroness Hoggs decision theBoard.
relating to gender diversity, the Committee tostep down from the role at the end of 2013, chose to undertake a review of Group disclosure in recognition ofher nine-year service on the In light of these changes, the Committee inrelation to diversity, particularly gender.
TheCommittee discussed Baroness undertook a holistic review of the composition TheCommittee recommended to the Board an Hoggs successor and evaluated the defined ofthe Board and its Committees during December updated Group Diversity Policy and, in particular, requirements of the role, as set out in the 2013.
The Committee recommended the that the BGGroup Board should aspire to increase roleprofile at www.
com SID, on two appointments of Martin Ferguson and Pam Daley the proportion of women on the Board to occasions.
A key factor in their determination to the Board, and also proposed the appointment 25%by 2015, in line with the recommendations was to ensure that the successful candidate of Vivienne Cox and Caio Koch-Weser to the ofthe Davies Report.
The Board approved the had sufficient experience ofthe Group and of Nominations Committee and the appointment proposed Group Diversity Policy, set out in the Board and was able tooffer the necessary of Baroness Hogg and Martin Ferguson to the more detail on page 55. time commitment to continue the work of Sustainability Committee.
The Committee Baroness Hogg in this pivotal role.
After careful recommended that, inaccordance with best 2014 priorities and performance review consideration, the Committee recommended governance practice, Baroness Hogg should The Committees performance was assessed to the Board that DrJohn Hood should be step down from theAudit and Nominations as part of the Boards annual effectiveness appointed, based on these factors and noting, Committees.
Allchanges were agreed by the review.
It was concluded that the Committee inparticular, hiscontinued independence Board to take effect from 1January 2014. operated effectively.
External search consultants JCA Group, in the During 2014, the Committee will continue Appointment of new Chief Financial Officer UK, and Korn Ferry, in Australia, were engaged tofocus on succession planning and support The approach and progress of the Board in the to assist inthe identification and appointment the Board in the achievement of the Group appointment of the new Chief Financial Officer of PamDaley and Martin Ferguson as suitable Diversity Policy.
