50 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 groUp exeCUtive Committee and Company seCretary 8 4 5 10 6 7 9 2 1 3 The Group Executive Committee GEC is chaired by Chris Finlayson andcomprises the Executive Directors ofBG Group, together with the executives shown on these pages.
During the year, the GEC met 10 times.
The GEC is a sub-Committee of the Board and supports the ChiefExecutive in the general management ofthebusiness oftheGroup within agreedfinancial limits set by the Board, save for thosematters which arereserved forthe Board.
Thefull list ofthosematters which are reserved for the Board for decision is published at www.
com governance The following sub-Committees of the GEC focuson particular aspects of the Groupsbusiness: exploration & appraisal Committee Formulates the Groups exploration and appraisal strategy, is responsible for planning Chairman Chris Finlayson, andsetting objectives andpriorities to deliver that strategy and approves funding for Chief Executive exploration and appraisal.
governance Committee Oversees the effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk, internal controland Chairman Chris Finlayson, assuranceprocesses.
Chief Executive investment Committee Approves merger, acquisition and disposal transactions, and other investmentdecisions, Chairman Simon Lowth, withthe exception ofexploration and appraisal businessdevelopment transactions.
Chief Financial Officer risk management Committee Formulates managements approach to risk and risk management, andconsiders Chairman Simon Lowth, the Groups risk appetite and principal risks.
Chief Financial Officer speak Up & Fraud Monitors the effectiveness of the Speak Up Policy, oversees material investigations investigations Committee intoallegations made andadvisesthe business on remedialactions and lessons learnt.
Chairman Graham Vinter, General Counsel There are two additional sub-Committees: the Disclosure and Reserves Committees.
These sub-Committees report intothe Audit Committee on an annual basis and further details are setout on page 47.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 51 1.
Simon Lowth, 52 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer andExecutive Director See full biography on page 48.
See full biography on page 48.
Sub-Committee membership: Sub-Committee membership: Disclosure: Exploration and Appraisal : Governance : Investment Disclosure : Investment : Reserves: Risk Management 3.
Chris Cox, 53 Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, HumanResources Exploration BGAdvance Expertise and focus: Sami has extensive Expertise and focus: Robert brings Expertise and focus: Malcolm is a Expertise and focus: Chris has a longglobal oil and gas expertise and is significant human resources HR expertise petroleumgeologist with global exploration established knowledge of the global oil and responsible for BG Groups operations andis responsible for all matters relating expertise and is responsible for BG Groups gas industry and is currently responsible across Africa, Australia, the Caribbean, toHR strategy and policy.
for BG Advance, which incorporates Europe, North America, SouthAmerica developments, operations, capital Prior to joining BG Group in 2006, Robert Malcolm has worked in the oil and gas andAsia.
projects, well engineering, HSSE, climate worked as a senior HR consultant for Ernst industry for 36 years.
He joined British change, IT, contracts and procurement, Prior to joining the Group in 2008, Sami & Young and Mercer Human Resource Gas in 1982 and has been responsible for and technology, providing BG Group held a number of key leadership roles with Consulting in the UK andCanada.
He is worldwide exploration in the Group for 14 with technical and commercial assurance Schlumberger, undertaking assignments a chartered accountant and an elected of the last 18 years.
He joined theGEC in and services, including resourcing and inLatin America, the USA, Africa, Europe William Pitt Fellow of Pembroke College, 2013, having previously been Senior Vice development of staff capabilities.
Chris also andthe Middle East.
He joined the GEC in Cambridge.
He joined the GEC in 2009, President, Exploration.
He is a fellow of the oversees the Corporate Reserves Group.
2009 and was appointed Chief Operating having previously been General Manager, Geological Society of London andcurrently Officer in November 2013.
Sami was Performance and Reward.
Robert is also ischairman of itsPetroleumGroup.
Prior to joining the Group in 2006, Chris previously Executive Vice President, a trustee of Sparks, a childrens medical spent 22 years with Chevron Corporation Sub-Committee membership: Operations and Executive Vice President research charity.
and two years with Amerada Hess in senior Exploration and Appraisal: and Managing Director, Africa, Central roles in a number of international settings.
Sub-Committee membership: RiskManagement andSouth Asia.
He is also an independent He joined the GEC in 2013, having previously Governance: Risk Management: board member of Pacific Drilling S. A. been Senior Vice President, Developments, Speak Up and Fraud Investigations Operations and Well Engineering in Sub-Committee membership: BGAdvance.
Exploration and Appraisal: Investment: RiskManagement Sub-Committee membership: Exploration and Appraisal: Investment: Reserves 7.
Steve Allen, 42 Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, General Counsel Company Secretary PolicyandCorporate Affairs GlobalEnergy Marketing and Shipping Expertise and focus: Graham is a lawyer Expertise and focus: Steve is an Expertise and focus: John brings a Expertise and focus: Matt brings extensive with a wealth of experience of global experiencedlawyer with an established number of years global mining and marketing and risk management experience energytransactions and is responsible knowledge ofBG Group and its corporate petroleum experience and is responsible in LNG, gas and oil and is responsible for forthe legal affairs of BG Group.
AsCompany Secretary, Steve is for government and public affairs, energy marketing, trading and shipping responsible for advising the Board, through Prior to joining the Group in 2007, Graham communications, social performance activities across BG Group.
the Chairman, on all governance matters.
spent 27 years with Allen & Overy, where andBG Groups Business Principles.
Prior to joining the Group in 2007, Matt AllDirectors have access to the advice hewas a partner for just under 20years Before joining the Group in 2009, John worked at Dynegy, latterly as president and services of the Company Secretary, andwas global head of projects from hadbeen president of BHP Billiton Europe andchief executive officer of Dynegys who is responsible for ensuring that Board 1996to2007.
Prior to that he had been a energy marketing and power generation procedures are complied with.
Sub-Committee membership: member of the Diplomatic Service from businesses.
He joined the GEC in 2012, Prior to joining the Group in 2005, Steve Disclosure: Governance: Investment: 1976 to 2007, holding posts inStockholm, having previously been Senior Vice was a corporate lawyer for Herbert Smith.
Reserves: Speak Up andFraud Moscow and Brussels, where he was the PresidentEnergy Marketing, BGAmericas He was appointed Company Secretary in Investigations UKs Permanent Representative to the and Global LNG.
2011, having previously been Chief Counsel, European Union from 2003 to 2007.
Sub-Committee membership: Corporate, leading the team providing Sub-Committee membership: Risk Management legalsupport for corporate functions.
Exploration and Appraisal: Speak Up Sub-Committee membership: andFraud Investigations Governance: Risk Management Sub-Committee Chairman Corporate governanCe
