48 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board oF direCtors Andrew Gould, 67 Chris Finlayson, 57 Simon Lowth, 52 Dr John Hood, 62 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director and Appointed in 2011: Appointed in 2011: Appointed in December 2013 Chairman of the Remuneration elected Chairman in 2012 Chief Executive in 2013 Committee.
Appointed in 2007 Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Andrew brings to the Board his exceptional Chris provides strong and committed Simon provides significant expertise in John provides the Board and four Committees knowledge of the upstream oil and gas leadership to the Group gained through finance, capital allocation, value-based with expertise from his knowledge anddeep industry and a wealth of experience more than 35 years experience in the oil planning, portfolio management and experience of international business, and gainedon the boards of a number of listed and gas industry, including significant strategy gained through roles in a number with analytical rigour arising from his global companies.
He has an of listed companies.
Simon has relevant leadership roles in higher education and impressive track record of delivering largeexperience of the gas and power industry research.
BG Groups sustainability activities A chartered accountant, Andrew was scale projects and has worked successfully and a background in engineering.
also benefit from Johns philanthropic work chairman and chief executive officer of with joint venture partners, national withinternational, non-governmental Schlumberger from 2003 to 2011, during Before joining BG Group, Simon was chief oil companies and governments at the organisations.
which time he led successfully a major financial officer and executive director highest levels.
restructuring of the group, retiring of AstraZeneca for six years during John was formerly vice chancellor of the aschiefexecutive in 2011 and chairman Before joining BG Group, Chris held which time he notably helped improve universities of Oxford and Auckland.
Until May 2012, Andrew key positions with Royal Dutch Shell, productivity, cash management and heldadvisory roles for the New Zealand and wassenior independent director of where latterly he was a member of the capital allocation during complex times.
British governments and has served as a RioTinto plc.
exploration and production leadership directorof New Zealand-based enterprises, Prior to that, Simon was corporate team, serving in Russia, Nigeria, Brunei including ABS Bank, Fonterra Cooperative Committee membership: strategydirector at Scottish Power following andthe North Sea.
Chairmans : Finance : Nominations : a number of roles with McKinsey & Remuneration Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive, Company, ultimately as director of the UK Committee membership: Chris was responsible for BG Advance, Industrial Practice focusing on business Audit: Nominations: Remuneration : Other appointments: including BG Groups exploration team strategy, mergers and acquisitions, Sustainability King Abdullah University of Science andthe major capital projects programme.
capital management and operational andTechnology Other appointments: performance improvement.
King Fahd University of Petroleum Committee membership: Robertson Foundation &Minerals Chairmans: Finance: Group Executive Committee membership: Study Group Pty Ltd Royal Academy of Engineering Chairmans: Finance: Group Executive Rhodes Trustees Other appointments: Development advisory board URENCO Ltd Lloyds Register Group Limited Other appointments: L1 Energy Fund WPP plc Standard Chartered plc Saudi Aramco Sir David Manning GCMG CVO, 64 Mark Seligman, 58 Chairman of the Sustainability Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee and Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2008 Appointed in 2009 Expertise: Expertise: David provides the Board with insight into Mark provides the Board and Audit international relations, gained through Committee with relevant financial his career as a senior diplomat, and plays expertise, gained through a distinguished an important role as Chairman of the career in the UK investment banking Sustainability Committee.
Martin Houston His work with the Regional Growth David was a member of the Foreign Martin stepped down as Chief Fund and as an alternate member of andCommonwealth Office for 35 years, OperatingOfficer and Executive theTakeover Panel provides the Board serving in Warsaw, New Delhi, Paris, Director on 13 November 2013. withinvaluable insight into the wider Moscow, Tel Aviv and Brussels.
He retired corporate governance landscape.
from the Diplomatic Service in 2008 Fabio Barbosa afterfour years as British ambassador Mark held senior roles at Barclays fide Fabio stepped down as Chief tothe USA.
Zoete Wedd and SG Warburg & Co, and FinancialOfficer and Executive is a former chairman of UK Investment Committee membership: Director on 15February 2013.
Banking at Credit Suisse and a former Nominations: Sustainability member of the banks Global Investment Other appointments: Banking Executive Board.
Den Jones Lockheed Martin UK Holdings Ltd Committee membership: Den stepped down as Interim The Royal Institute of International Audit : Remuneration Chief Financial Officer and Executive Affairs Chatham House Director on2 December 2013.
Gatehouse Advisory Partners Other appointments: Council of Lloyds of London G4S plc Philippe Varin London School of Economics The Takeover Panel Philippe stepped down as a IDEASadvisory board Regional Growth Fund advisory panel Non-Executive Director on Kingfisher plc 11February2013.
Committee Chairman BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Board of Directors 49 Peter Backhouse, 62 Vivienne Cox, 54 Pam Daley, 61 Martin Ferguson, 60 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2000 Appointed in 2012 Appointed in January 2014 Appointed in January 2014 Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Peters experience in the offshore oil and Vivienne has extensive experience as an Pams experience from her distinguished Martin brings with him international gas sector and his extensive commitment executive in the energy sector, and also career in North America and internationally expertise, particularly in the resources to BG Group have proved invaluable to works as a non-executive director with will bring new insight and perspective and energy sector.
Peter will step down from companies from a variety of industries, to the Board.
Her renowned expertise and experience in the development of theBoardat the 2014 AGM.
as well as with a number of philanthropic in finance and law especially mergers, Australias natural gas industry and the organisations.
She provides valuable acquisitions, joint ventures and business growing LNG market in Asia will prove Peter is a former executive vice president perspective to Board debates, and development arrangements will be invaluable to the Board, with BG Group ofrefining and marketing at BP.
Prior contributes constructively to the Groups a valuable addition to BG Group as it setto deliver the worlds first coal seam to this, he was chief executive of BP Oil strategic and sustainability discussions.
continues to pursue its strategy of more gasto LNG project in Queensland in 2014.
Europe and head of UK North Sea oil Vivienne has participated in eventsorganised active portfolio management, capital development.
He gained considerable Martin is a former Australian federal by the BG Group Womens Network.
discipline and monetisation of the Groups experience in international LNG and minister for resources and energy with assets at different stages of their life-cycles.
natural gas development, latterly as Vivienne worked for BP in the UK and acareer in politics spanning 18 years.
continental Europe from 1981 to 2009, Pam joined General Electric Company GE Priorto his election to the Australian latterly as executive vice president of gas, in 1989 as tax counsel and held a variety Houseof Representatives in 1996, Committee membership: power and renewables.
She was also of senior legal and business roles, latterly Martinwas president of the Australian Sustainability chiefexecutive of BP Alternative Energy.
as senior vice president for corporate Council of Trade Unions.
Pam retired from Committee membership: Committee membership: Carlyle Riverstone Energy Partners GE on 1 January 2014.
She was formerly a Nominations: Remuneration: Sustainability Hestya Energy B. V. tax partner of the international law firm, Sustainability Clarkson plc Other appointments: Morgan, Lewis & Bockius.
Other appointments: Seven Group Holdings Committee membership: Pearson plc Australian Petroleum Production None Rio Tinto plc andExploration Association Vallourec SA Other appointments: Royal Academy of Engineering BlackRock, Inc. Development advisory board The Juilliard School Ministerial board of the Department for University of Pennsylvania Law School International Development DFID Baroness Hogg, 67 Caio Koch-Weser, 69 Lim Haw-Kuang, 60 Patrick Thomas, 56 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2005 Appointed in 2010 Appointed in 2013 Appointed in 2010 Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Expertise: Sarahs extensive career in government Caios global financial, diplomatic and Haw-Kuang has a wealth of expertise Patrick brings global executive and with prominent regulatory bodies political experience is of significant value inthe Southeast Asian markets, as well experience, including more than 30 years and major UK companies brings a highly to the Board and he brings an in-depth asin-depth knowledge of the Chinese in the chemical industry, providing a valuedcontribution to the Board and knowledge of South America and Brazil oil and gas sector, an area of growing widerperspective and increased balance itscorporate governance.
Patrick has extensive experience of working in Asia Pacific.
Sarah is a former head of the Prime Caio was German deputy minister of Haw-Kuang is the former executive Ministers Policy Unit and second finance from 1999 to 2005, responsible chairman of Shell China.
He joined Royal Prior to joining the Bayer Group, Patrick permanent secretary from 1990 to 1995. for international finance G7 Deputy, Dutch Shell in Malaysia in 1978 and became spent seven years with the Huntsman Until 2010, she was chairman of 3i Group European economic and financial affairs, executive chairman in 2005.
Prior roles Corporation, a US chemicals company, and has been a non-executive director as well as capital markets, banking and with Shell included business development latterly as corporate executive vice ofseveral other FTSE 100 companies.
He was also chairman of the manager for the former Soviet Union president of Huntsman Matlin Patterson.
supervisory board of the German Federal and Sakhalin: chairman and managing Patrick held a number of positions with Sarah was Senior Independent Director Financial Supervisory Authority BaFin.
director Malaysia: president, oil products ICI Pharmaceuticals and Agrochemicals, ofBG Group from 2009 to 2013.
From 1973 to 1999, Caio was with the World Asia Pacific and Middle East: and Shell including regional director for Europe, Committee membership: Bank where he worked on Latin America, International vice president of corporate Africa and the Middle East, and was Sustainability China, the Middle East and Africa.
also global chief executive officer ofICIPolyurethanes.
Other appointments: Committee membership: In 2011, he was honoured with the Great Financial Reporting Council Audit: Nominations: Sustainability Wall Friendship Award, recognising his Committee membership: until 1 May 2014 contribution to the city of Beijing.
Audit: Remuneration Other appointments: The Takeover Panel Deutsche Bank Group Committee membership: Other appointments: HM Treasury The Royal Institute of International Audit Bayer MaterialScience AG John Lewis Partnership Affairs Chatham House Oxford University Business Other appointments: Peterson Institute for International EconomicsProgramme Board ENN Energy Economics European Institutefor Industrial Sime Darby Bhd.
European Climate Foundation Leadership advisory board Ranhill Energy & Resources Bhd.
Centre for European Reform PlasticsEurope China Council for International Cooperation on Environment andDevelopment Corporate governanCe
