68 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Other governance matters Directors and Officers indemnification The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22m in aggregate for legal action brought against its Directors as Statement of a consequence of their position.
In addition separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each Director Investment indemnifying them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance does not extend to cover claims Objective and Policy brought by the Company itself which are upheld by the Courts, nor to criminal fines or penalties.
Alliance Trust is a self-managed Access to advice investment company with investment All Directors have access to independent professional trust status.
Our objective is to be a advice if necessary.
core investment for investors seeking increasing value over the long term.
We Relationship with shareholders have no fixed asset allocation benchmark All Directors attend the AGM where they have the and we invest in a wide range of asset opportunity to meet shareholders.
Meetings also take classes throughout the world to achieve place throughout the year with major and institutional shareholders, such meetings normally being attended by our objective.
Our focus is to generate the Chair or Chief Executive.
a real return for shareholders over the In addition to these meetings, the Company hosted two medium to long term by a combination investor forums during the year where individual shareholders of capital growth and a rising dividend.
had the opportunity to meet Directors and senior managers.
Almost 500 shareholders, customers of Alliance Trust Savings and their guests attended these meetings.
We pursue our objective by: Investing in both quoted and unquoted equities Investment Trust Status across the globe in different sectors and industries: HM Revenue and Customs have confirmed that Alliance Investing internationally in fixed income securities: Trust has investment trust status for all financial periods Investing in other asset classes and financial from 1 January 2012. instruments, either directly or through investment vehicles: and Conflicts of interest Investing in subsidiaries and associated businesses which allow us to expand into other related activities.
The Directors have previously provided details of all interests which potentially could cause a conflict of interest We are prepared to invest any proportion of the total to arise.
The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the corporate capital in any of the above asset classes, declarations by the Directors of their other interests and subject only to the restrictions imposed on us by the confirmed that at that time none of the interests disclosed regulatory or fiscal regime within which we operate.
were reasonably likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual However, we would expect equities to comprise at least review of all interests was undertaken as part of the year 50% of our portfolio.
Changes to the asset allocation end process and this was considered by the Board in will be dependent upon attractive investment February 2014.
Procedures are in place to allow Directors to opportunities being available.
request authority should it be required outwith the normal Where market conditions permit, we will use gearing of Board meeting schedule.
not more than 30% of our net assets at any given time.
We can use derivative instruments to hedge, enhance Director development and protect positions, including currency exposures.
Every new director receives an individually tailored induction.
The Board as a whole received updates on corporate governance, risk and business issues during the year.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 69 Re-election of Directors Share capital and waiver of dividends Details of the current Directors can be found on pages The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 40 and 41.
2013 comprised 560,094,146 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 1,338,233 have been acquired by the Trustee of an The Board has decided that in line with the UK Corporate Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by Governance Code all of the Directors will be subject to the Company in connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in The individual performance of each Director and their respect of those shares.
Each Ordinary share of the Company ongoing suitability for re-election was considered is entitled to one vote but the Trustee does not vote in and endorsed by the Nomination Committee.
All are respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
recommended for re-election at the forthcoming Annual In the course of the year the Company acquired and General Meeting.
Each of our Directors has confirmed that they remain committed to their role and have sufficient cancelled 1,485,000 shares at a total consideration, before time available to meet what is expected of them.
Name Designation Appointed There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
Karin Forseke Chair 01 03 12 Katherine Garrett-Cox Chief Executive 01 05 07 Agreement in respect of voting rights John Hylands Non-Executive Director 22 02 08 Alastair Kerr Non-Executive Director 01 10 12 There are no agreements in respect of voting rights.
Susan Noble Non-Executive Director 11 07 12 Win Robbins Non-Executive Director 14 02 13 Alan Trotter Executive Director 01 02 10 Major shareholders As at 6 March 2014 the Company had received notifications from shareholders holding an interest in more than 3% of the voting rights of the ordinary shares in issue of the Company.
The disclosures, updated to reflect known changes in holdings, are: Shareholder Nature of interest Number of shares DC Thomson & Company Limited and John Leng Shares 33,150,000 5.92% & Company Limited Elliott International, LP, Liverpool Limited Partnership Shares 28,051,891 5.01% Contract for difference over shares 28,072,107 5.01% The largest shareholder in the Company is the nominee company for Alliance Trust Savings which holds its shares on behalf of around 24,000 clients.
Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 141,246,020 25.22% Board and Committee attendances In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meeting below, the Board and Committees met on a number of other occasions to consider matters arising between the scheduled meetings.
Meeting attendances Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Risk Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Karin Forseke 6 6 - - - - 2 2 - - Katherine Garrett-Cox 6 6 - - - - - - - - John Hylands 6 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 3 3 Alastair Kerr 6 6 2 2 4 4 2 2 3 3 Susan Noble 6 6 4 4 4 4 - - 3 3 Win Robbins 4 5 2 3 2 3 - - - - Alan Trotter 6 6 - - - - - - - - John Hylands was co-opted onto the Remuneration Committee for a meeting that took place before the appointment of Win Robbins, a meeting that took place when Win Robbins could not attend due to a commitment entered into prior to her appointment and another meeting to allow for continuity of discussion of members for a particular item of business.
No additional fees were paid on these occasions.
Alastair Kerr was co-opted onto the Audit Committee that took place before the appointment of Win Robbins and a meeting that took place when Win Robbins could not attend due to a commitment entered into prior to her appointment.
70 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions Mandatory disclosure of total GHG emissions data for the year ended 31 December 2013 Operational Scope Source of GHG emissions GHG emissions in 2013 Unit Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Air Conditioning refrigerant loss Scope 1 direct emissions Company vehicle use 215 Tonnes CO2e Scope 2 indirect emissions Electricity purchased for own use 489 Tonnes CO2e Business Travel Scope 3 indirect emissions Downstream leased assets 627 Tonnes CO2e Total 1,332 Tonnes CO2e Key Performance Scope 1 2 normalised to per fullIndicator KPI time employee equivalent FTE 2.77 Tonnes CO2 per FTE We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Report of Directors and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall Responsibility Statement within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not The Report of the Directors, including the Directors included in our consolidated financial statements.
responsibility and going concern statements, on pages 42 to 51 and 68 to 70 of this Annual Report and We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Accounts has been approved by the Board.
and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: for Company Reporting 2014.
The emissions reported the financial statements, prepared in accordance here have been verified by Carbon Action.
Please find with International Financial Reporting Standards, details of our verification statements on our website at give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, www.
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Share buyback authority the Directors report and the Strategic report At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority include a fair review of the development and for the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares.
performance of the business and the position of This authority falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
The the Company and the undertakings included in Company made use of this provision during the course of the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a the year as detailed above.
The Company will, as part of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties it authority being sought, declare its intention that any shares faces: and bought back under the authority will be cancelled.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Annual General Meeting the information necessary for shareholders to assess In addition to formal business, the Chief Executive will the performance, strategy and business model of present on business developments and there will be the the Company.
opportunity for questions to be put to the other Directors.
This year, in addition to the normal business there will Karin Forseke Katherine Garrett-Cox be proposals to confirm the notice period for convening Chair Chief Executive general meetings other than Annual General Meetings and to renew the share buy back authority.
