42 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance In this section of the report we describe the arrangements which are in place to ensure that Alliance Trust adopts high standards of corporate governance across all of its activities and businesses.
Good corporate governance is not about box-ticking it requires every board to consider the processes, controls and limits within which their own company should operate taking account of its own specific characteristics.
Boards then need to define and work within a framework which is clear and understandable to everyone involved in the management of the company.
The following pages describe the work of the Board This year the Board performance evaluation was facilitated internally, with all directors and members of the Executive and also of its various committees during 2013, with Committee completing questionnaires.
These covered commentary from the Chair of each committee.
the key themes of strategy, the governance structure, In addition, both the management team and our regulated information and decision-making, the relationship subsidiaries, Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust with committees and subsidiaries, board composition Investments operate within parameters set by the Board.
and interaction between the Board and management.
This ensures that the Board retains control over key strategic Responses were then collated and discussed in individual decisions and has control of the risk profile of the business.
structured interviews led by myself and the Company These are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that Secretary which focused on changes we could make for they remain appropriate, giving the Chief Executive and the future based on our experience in 2013. her management team, who also act as the Boards of the At the same time the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration regulated subsidiaries, the freedom to develop the business and Board Risk Committees each undertook their and respond quickly to emerging opportunities while not own, questionnaire-based review.
I discussed directors exposing shareholders to excessive risk.
contribution with each individually, while my own performance evaluation was led by the Senior Independent At each Board meeting, the Board scrutinises KPI reports Director and discussed by my non-executive colleagues.
I covering all aspects of the business, including investment did not attend that meeting, but the Senior Independent and operational performance and customer outcomes.
Director provided feedback to me following the meeting.
This enables the Board to satisfy itself that good progress is being made against the agreed business plan and allows it The conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board was operating effectively and that the current governance to take early corrective action where required.
In addition framework was satisfactory.
In discussion of the report, the Board receives in-depth presentations on a twice yearly the Board agreed a number of changes related to the basis from the Heads of Equities, Fixed Income and SRI, executive succession process and enhancements to the and also from the Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust existing KPI reports.
The Board also discussed ways in Investments management teams.
These presentations give which the Board programme could be adjusted to make the Board the opportunity to provide both support and best use of directors time.
challenge to management across all areas of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors hold regular private sessions.
Compliance with UK Corporate Some of these are also attended by the Chief Executive.
Governance Code I am pleased to confirm that we have complied with the Board effectiveness UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2012 Boards need to regularly review both their own throughout the period covered by this report.
We also performance and that of their committees and individual comply with the principles of the AIC Code of Corporate directors to ensure that all make an effective contribution.
Periodic  evaluations are an essential part of this process and we have used external facilitators on three previous occasions, most recently Independent Audit in 2012.
Independent Audit have no other connection with the Company.
Karin Forseke Chair Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 43 Board Committees The four committees reporting to the Board during the The Terms of Reference of each of these Committees have year were: been reviewed and updated in the course of the year.
Copies of the Terms of Reference of the Committees can Audit Committee be found on our website www.
Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board Risk Committee Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee The members are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The members are shown on page 40.
The work of the Committee during the year is The work of the Committee during the year is explained on page 46 and 49. explained on page 47.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The members are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The members are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The work of the Committee during the year is The work of the Committee during the year is explained on pages 48 to 50. explained in the Directors Remuneration section of the report on pages 52 to 67.
Management Committees In addition there are other committees which include Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Asset Allocation Executive Committee This Committee comprises the Chief Investment This Committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Head of Global Equities and the Head and senior management and is the main executive of Fixed Income.
The Chief Financial Officer also committee providing leadership, oversight and attends its meetings.
Risk Management Committee Authorisation Committee This Committee comprises the Chief Financial This Committee comprises the Executive Directors Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Director of Risk and and other senior managers.
It considers and approves Compliance and the senior managers who oversee and changes to signing authorities, approval of banking review the control, monitoring and reporting framework arrangements, appointment of brokers and approval and related procedures for risk management.
The work of other administrative arrangements.
of the Committee is covered on pages 36 to 39.
Portfolio Oversight Committee Investment Operations Committee This Committee comprises the Chief Investment This Committee comprises the Director of Investment Officer, Head of Performance and Risk and other Operations and other senior managers.
It overseas performance and oversight of investment operational processes investment risk within the Group.
procedures, systems and controls within the Group.
