48 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Audit Committee In this section we provide information on the main areas of focus of the Audit Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in ensuring that the Companys financial statements and those of other companies in the Group are properly prepared and that the systems of controls that are in place are effective and appropriate.
We provide more detail on these matters on the next pages but the key areas of focus and the decisions taken are summarised in the table below.
This year, following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, we were required specifically to consider whether our Company accounts were, taken as a whole, fair, balanced and understandable.
We also had to address whether they provide the information that a shareholder needs to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
After consideration, the Audit Committee agreed that they did and recommended their approval to the Board.
John Hylands Chair, Audit Committee Key area of focus Decision taken The Committee considered the content of the Report and Accounts of the Company, Review of Annual and the Reports and Accounts of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments and recommended their approval to the respective company boards.
Interim Accounts The Committee considered and approved the planned activities of the Internal Audit Internal Audit, and Compliance functions along with the scope of the External Audit for the year.
External Audit and Compliance Plans The Committee approved the appointment, after a tender exercise, of an external firm Use of co-sourced  to provide additional specialist resource to supplement the Internal Audit and Compliance Teams.
The external resource focuses on areas of the partner for Compliance business where benefit can be obtained from using individuals with extensive experience and Internal Audit across the industry.
In making the appointment the Committee approved additional controls to avoid any conflict of interest arising.
Following a management request to extend the use of derivative instruments the Use of derivatives Committee undertook a review of the existing investment risk management process to satisfy itself that operational processes and controls were in place for the enhanced use of derivatives.
The Committee considered reports produced over the year and at the year end Effectiveness of Risk before arriving at the conclusions provided on page 49.
Management and Internal Control Systems The Committee considered the basis of valuing its subsidiary businesses and other Significant unlisted investments and approved the methodology which is described in more detail on pages 107 to 110.
The Committee also approved the accounting treatment for the accounting matters acquisition of the SRI funds from Aviva which is disclosed in note 2 on page 82.
The Committee considered the independence and performance of the External External Auditor Auditor before arriving at the conclusions provided on page 50.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 49 Audit and Compliance to ensure that they are providing the Internal controls level of scrutiny expected by the Audit Committee and the The Group has a clear organisational structure for the Board.
In arriving at their conclusions, and to allow reports control and monitoring of its business, including defined to be made to them without management presence, the lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group Audit Committee have private sessions with each of the has a comprehensive system for reviewing, monitoring and Head of Internal Audit, Director of Compliance and the reporting performance to the Board, including a detailed External Auditor during the year.
As a result of the annual financial review against forecast.
review and the ongoing processes for review, monitoring and reporting of internal control, the Board did not identify The Board is responsible for determining the nature and any significant weaknesses or failings and remains satisfied extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving with the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and its strategic objectives and for the Groups risk management internal control systems.
The Audit and the Board Risk Committees assist the Board in fulfilling this responsibility.
The Groups system of internal control is designed Internal controls over to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to financial reporting ensure the assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper One of the risks to the Group is Financial and Prudential accounting records are maintained, and the financial Reporting the risk of adopting inappropriate accounting information used within the business and for reporting to policies and ineffective controls over financial and regulatory stakeholders is reliable.
The Group has a Financial Accounting Policy and Any system of risk management and internal control is an Accounting Manual to enable the Group to comply with designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of all relevant accounting standards to ensure that the financial failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide statements provide a true and fair view.
reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against This risk and the mitigating controls are assessed regularly material misstatement or loss.
Controls over the preparation of the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk consolidated accounts include but are not limited to: management and internal control systems but relies on A formal review and sign-off of the annual accounts both the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee by management including verification of any to regularly review their effectiveness, including all material statements made: financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Audit Committee has also performed an assessment for Adoption of appropriate accounting policies by the purpose of this annual report, which considered all the Board: significant aspects of risk management and internal control Review and approval of accounting estimates by arising during the period of the report, including the work the Board.
of the Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit functions.
The Audit Committee then reported its findings to the Board.
This year the Audit Committee also took account of the requirement that the Annual Report should, taken as a The Board has established an ongoing process for the whole, be fair, balanced and understandable, and provide identification, evaluation and management of the significant the information necessary for shareholders to assess the risks faced by the Group.
The Board Risk Committee Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In regularly reviews this process, which is in accordance with arriving at their conclusion that the Annual Report satisfied the Internal Control - Revised Guidance for Directors on the requirement the Committee took into account the the Combined Code published in October 2005. process adopted in the preparation of the document The Board Risk Committee also reviews the effectiveness of which included: the Groups Risk Management Framework and reviews and The involvement of Executive Committee members, challenges the results of the Groups Risk and Control Self the Company Secretary, the Head of Performance Assessment process which considers the effectiveness of and Risk and the Head of Investor Relations in regular internal control in managing the significant risks to which the drafting meetings: Group is exposed.
All Executive Committee members provide sign-off on The Audit Committee regularly receives reports from the the draft issued to the Board for approval: Groups Compliance and Internal Audit functions and from the External Auditor which include details of all significant Verification of all factual statements contained within internal control issues that have been identified.
The Audit the narrative section of the Annual Report, with Committee provides independent oversight of Internal evidence required from the author: 50 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Statements which cannot be verified typically opinions Head of Internal Audit and was conducted by way of a or forward-looking statements specifically brought to survey, completed by Audit Committee members and the Audit Committees attention.
members of management within the businesses and the control functions.
The survey assessed the External Auditors The Audit Committee considered the steps outlined performance against the following criteria: independence above and the content of the document.
After review the and objectivity, audit strategy, communication with Committee were satisfied, taking care to ensure that the management, and how the audit was finalised.
narrative parts of the Annual Report were consistent with the numerical disclosures in the audited accounts, that the The Audit Committee considered the results of the Annual Report satisfied the test and recommended evaluation at its July meeting and concluded that it approval to the Board.
was satisfied both with the performance and with the independence of the External Auditor.
No material issues were identified.
Significant accounting matters During the year the Audit Committee considered a number Tender of Auditor of significant accounting matters including: During 2010 the Board carried out a tender exercise for The valuation and ownership of listed investments: the role of Auditor.
This involved a rigorous selection The basis of calculating the fair value of our subsidiary process during which the Audit Committee considered businesses this is explained in more detail on page 109 : submissions made and received presentations from the short-listed firms.
The Committee decided that it would The valuation of other unlisted investments: be appropriate to change Auditor and recommended the The allocation of costs incurred within the Group appointment of Deloitte LLP to the Board who in turn between the Trust and the subsidiary businesses: recommended their appointment to the members at the 2011 AGM.
Deloitte LLP were subsequently reappointed The accounting treatment for the former Aviva SRI assets.
at the 2012 and 2013 AGMs and are proposed for reappointment in 2014.
Deloitte LLP will normally change the audit partner after they have been appointed for Independence of Auditor five years and the current partner, Calum Thomson, has The Committees policy is to allow the audit firm to be been in the role for three years.
The recommendation instructed to undertake non-audit work only where there to reappoint Deloitte LLP is not automatic.
In the course is no threat to independence.
Any assignment must be of the year the Chair of the Committee has met with approved on behalf of the Committee by its Chair.
Such the Auditor on a number occasions outwith the formal assignments are normally put out to tender.
Last year structure of Committee meetings.
The Committee has 32,000 was paid to the Auditor in respect of work on considered the performance of the Auditor and is satisfied regulatory services in relation to FATCA and the audit with the rigour that they apply to the audit process and of termination accounts for a number of Alliance Trust have recommended the reappointment of Deloitte LLP Investment funds.
Each year the Committee considers the for a further year.
It has done so this year and The Committee has decided that it will put the role of confirms the Auditors independence.
Auditor out to tender at least every 10 years.
Effectiveness of Auditor Disclosure of information to Auditor During the course of the year the audit engagement partner The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this and other members of the engagement team met on Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, several occasions with the Audit Committee Chair and the there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor Chief Financial Officer, both together and separately.
These is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps they ought meetings provide an opportunity for matters relating to to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any the conduct of the audit, including the performance of the relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditor External Auditor, to be raised and addressed at the time.
is aware of that information.
Following completion of the external audit of the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2012 a formal evaluation of the External Auditors effectiveness was undertaken.
The evaluation was facilitated by the Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 51 Directors responsibilities statement Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Groups business activities are set out on pages 3 to 7 financial statements in accordance with applicable law with the principal risks which could impact on performance and regulations.
The Groups financial position and cash flows are set out on pages 74 to 78 along with an Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial analysis of its borrowings in Note 15 on page 95.
As regards statements for each financial period.
By law, the Directors going concern the Directors have considered both liquidity are required to prepare the group financial statements in and solvency risks.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article Liquidity is concerned with our ability to liquidate assets or 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the access new sources of short-term funds in the time needed parent company financial statements under IFRSs as to meet our liabilities as they fall due.
The majority of the adopted by the EU.
Groups assets are in listed securities on recognised stock exchanges which are readily realisable even in volatile The financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as markets.
At 31 December 2013 we also had 70m of adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position unused committed funding lines.
of the Company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such financial Solvency is concerned with our ability to meet our liabilities statements, that references in the relevant part of that in full.
This involves managing our capital by maintaining Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are a business model which is capable of delivering over time references to their achieving a fair presentation.
a continuing economic return to our shareholders whilst absorbing the impact of any risks which crystallise.
As at 31 In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are December 2013 the Groups total net assets were 2.9bn.
required to: Our investment policy restricts gearing to 30% of net assets select suitable accounting policies and then apply them at any given time 11.6% at 31 December 2013. consistently: Sensitivities to market, credit, liquidity and gearing risk are make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and set out in Note 23 on pages 100 to 110.
The Directors, who prudent: have reviewed the budgets, forecasts and sensitivities for the coming year, consider that the Group has adequate financial state whether they have been prepared in accordance resources to enable it to continue in operational existence with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors believe prepare the financial statements on a going concern that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and a Strategic Report that complies with that law and those regulations.
