46 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Board Risk Committee We set out on pages 36 to 39 how the business manages the key risks that impact on the Company.
In this section we provide information on the main areas of focus of the Committee over the year.
The Committee plays a significant role in monitoring how effective management is in managing risk in the business and provides a layer of challenge above that provided by the senior managers who are members of the Risk Management Committee.
One of the main purposes of the Committee is to support initiatives intended to embed the Company risk culture within the group.
The Committee reviews and challenges the appropriateness of the Group Risk Appetite scorecards and managements assessment of the future Risk Outlook impacting the Company.
The table below summarises how the Committee has tackled this in the year highlighting both the key areas of focus and the decisions taken.
Susan Noble Chair, Board Risk Committee Key area of focus Decision taken New measures were recommended to the Board by the Committee and a Group Risk Risk appetite Appetite Scorecard, which now forms part of the regular reporting across the business to complement existing business unit scorecards, was approved.
The Committee supported the development and refinement of risk reporting and the Risk monitoring introduction of more concise management information including clearer reporting on conduct and customer treatment measures.
Improved tracking of movements in risk categories that allows enhanced trend analysis to take place has also been introduced.
The Committee has overseen significant improvements to the structure and content of Risk reporting the risk registers used by the business including the removal of duplication, improved definitions and evaluation of risks.
Scores attributed to identified risks have been challenged by the Committee and management have been challenged on the quality of their controls and mitigants.
The Committee recognised that how the investment managers operate their portfolio is Investment risk a key risk and accordingly devoted a full meeting to consideration and approval of the investment risk management process.
This included a review of the controls that are in place for the use of derivative instruments within the business.
The Committee considered and recommended to the Board a number of submissions that Regulatory were provided to the regulators.
These include an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process which involves analysing the risks to the business and the level of capital required compliance to reflect those risks, Recovery and Resolution Plan which involves approving a plan to be used should Alliance Trust Savings not be able to meet its obligations to its customers and an Individual Liquidity Systems Assessment which involves approving the means by which Alliance Trust Savings maintains adequate levels of liquidity.
The Committee requires an annual report on the effectiveness of the arrangements that are Business continuity in place to ensure that the business can continue to operate when faced with a number of challenging business issues.
In the course of the year call cascades, an onsite recovery test and a crisis scenario exercise have been held all of which, while identifying improvements that could be made, demonstrated that there were effective processes and procedures in place to minimise the risk of business interruption.
