Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 47 Nomination Committee We set out in this section the main areas of focus of the Committee over the year.
The Committees role is to assess the skills and experience of individual directors against the skillset required to ensure that the Board can provide effective direction and oversight of the Companys strategy and operations.
The Committee maintains a succession plan for future planned retirements and leads the search for replacements as and when necessary.
In the table below we summarise how the Committee has tackled its role in the year highlighting both the key areas of focus and the decisions taken.
Karin Forseke Chair, Nomination Committee Key area of focus Decision taken The Committee considered a number of candidates for the role of a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director against agreed criteria and approved the appointment of Win Robbins.
The Zygos Partnership, a firm specialising in board-level appointments, was used to conduct a search Director appointment for this appointment.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company.
The Committee considered and approved a change to the existing policy on the normal Non-Executive period of office of the Companys Non-Executive Directors and, recognising that a number of Directors had recently been appointed over a short period of time, agreed that a more retirement policy flexible policy was required.
They Committee therefore adopted a new policy aimed at ensuring that the Board would be regularly refreshed but without a large number of changes of Board members over a short period of time.
The Committee acknowledged that it is responsible for ensuring that there is planned Policy on succession, so far as possible, at Board level and for ensuring that the proper composition of the Board in terms of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity is maintained.
Taking that Board diversity responsibility into account the Committee considered and reaffirmed the existing policy that the Board should not adopt a target for gender diversity but will continue, as it has in the past, to appoint the best qualified person for the job regardless of their gender.
The Board decided in 2011 that each Director should stand for re-election each year.
Re-election of The Committee considered whether to recommend to the Annual General Meeting each of the Directors for election or re-election and concluded that, taking into account Directors the contribution and commitment of each individual, they all be recommended to the shareholders.
In the case of John Hylands, who has been a Director for six years, the recommendation for re-election was made after rigorous review under the Boards amended policy on Non-Executive Directors retirement.
Following the decision to form the Risk Committee it was agreed that Susan Noble Committee should be appointed as Chair and John Hylands and Alastair Kerr as members of the Board Risk Committee.
composition The Committee considered the skillsets of the current members of the Board and their Non-Executive current tenure as Non-Executive Directors and what action was required to ensure that the Board continued to have the appropriate mix of experience before agreeing a succession succession plan for the period to 2016.
