5 Corporate Governance Statement continued 5.18 Market disclosure continued 5.22 Conformance with corporate governance standards Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which we are listed, investor briefings, half-yearly financial statements, Our compliance with the governance standards in our home the Annual Report and other relevant information can be found jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom, and with on our website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
Any person wishing the governance requirements that apply to us as a result to receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe of our NYSE listing and our registration with the SEC in the at w w w. bhpbilliton.
United States, is summarised in this Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report and the financial statements.
5.19 Remuneration The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of Details of our remuneration policies and practices and the the UK Financial Conduct Authority require UK-listed companies remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive to report on the extent to which they comply with the Main Principles and members of the GMC are set out in the Remuneration Report and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, in section 6 of this Annual Report.
Shareholders will be invited and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The UK Code is to consider and to approve the Remuneration Report at the available online at w w w. fr c. org.
The Australian Corporations Act and the ASX Listing Rules prohibit Directors and members of the GMC from voting on The Listing Rules of the ASX require Australian-listed companies various resolutions relating to Key Management Personnel KMP to report on the extent to which they meet the Corporate Governance remuneration including, for example, the adoption of the Principles and Recommendations published by the ASX Corporate Remuneration Report, an increase in the maximum aggregate Governance Council ASX Principles and Recommendations and remuneration payable to the Non-executive Directors and the explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The ASX Principles and grant of equity to the Executive Director.
Recommendations are available online at w w w. asxgr oup.
Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations 5.20 Directors share ownership require the Board to consider the application of the relevant corporate Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent governance principles, while recognising that departures from those of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
We complied with they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years the provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ASX Principles remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level and Recommendations during the financial period and continue of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors to comply up to the date of this Annual Report.
are subject to the Groups Securities Dealing GLD and are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
Information on our policy governing the use of hedge arrangements A checklist summarising our compliance with the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members of the GMC is set out in section 6.2.
can be found on our website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 7.19 of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the SEC in the United States.
Both companies are classified 5.21 Company secretaries as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE.
Jane McAloon is the President, Governance and Group Company Secretary.
Ms McAloons qualifications and experience are set out We have reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable in section 4.1.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US, developing and maintaining the information systems and processes including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of the that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
The Group Company Secretary NYSE, and are satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Section 303A of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual contains a are complied with and advising the Board on governance matters.
broad regime of corporate governance requirements for NYSE-listed All Directors have access to the Group Company Secretary for advice companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such and services.
Independent advisory services are retained by the Group as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu Company Secretary at the request of the Board or Board committees.
of the requirements of Section 303A, except for the rule relating Ms McAloon is supported by Nicola Kleynhans, Deputy Company to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited, Nicole Duncan, Company Secretary of 1934 audit committee independence and certain notification BHP Billiton Limited, and Elizabeth Hobley and Geof Stapledon, who provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual.
are Deputy Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Plc.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, however, requires appoints and removes the Company Secretaries.
us to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance 154 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 5.22 Conformance with corporate governance standards continued practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
Following a comparison of our corporate governance practices with the requirements of Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, the following significant difference was identified: Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor unless the companys governing law or documents or other home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment and retention of the External Auditor rests with our shareholders, in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
While the Board is satisfied with its level of compliance with the governance requirements in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, it recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, and there is merit in continuously reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Boards program of review will continue throughout the year ahead.
5.23 Additional UK disclosure The information specified in the UK Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 7.2.
6, is located elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The Directors Report, at section 7.22, provides cross-references to where the information is located.
This Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the Board on 12 September 2013 and signed on its behalf by: Jac Nasser AO Chairman 12 September 2013 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 155
