STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nomination Committee report Committee membership Meetings attended Richard Davey Chairman 3 3 Julie Chakraverty 3 3 Sir Alan Collins 3 3 Marty Feinstein 3 3 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 3 3 Charles Philipps 3 3 Sir Mark Wrightson 3 3 Former members 1 Nigel Buchanan 1 1 1.
Nigel Buchanan retired from the Committee on 16 May 2013.
Richard Davey, Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Key items in Terms of Reference: Within the last 24 months, the Committee has recruited two independent Review annually the time required from each Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors, received an external evaluation of the Board and its of the Company: Committees, and appointed a new Chairman.
Following these events, 2013 was Review the leadership needs of the a year of more limited activity for the Committee.
organisation, both Executive and The Board spent the latter half of 2013 reviewing the Groups strategy for the next five years.
To Non-Executive: support that strategy, the Committee devoted some of its time to determining the skills, balance Take responsibility for regularly reviewing and diversity of the Board.
There is still much more to do in this area, which will be one of the the Boards structure: size: composition: Committees key focus points in 2014. and balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity based upon the The Committee will seek to appoint a further Non-Executive Director during 2014.
This follows annual performance evaluation: and the departure of Sir Alan Collins and addresses the Boards views regarding its desired balance Leading the process for appointments to of skills and experience in the medium term.
Finally, as the Board continues evolving, the Committee will also focus on executive succession The Board last reviewed the Terms of Reference on 13 November 2013, planning in the early part of 2014.
Our work will build on the efforts of the Talent Management which you can find on the Companys programme, detailed on page 38. website at www.
com.. Yours sincerely Richard Davey 28 February 2014 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 73 Nomination Committee report continued agreed the Committees recommendation and its Committees at the February 2014 Purpose and Terms of Reference that Marty Feinstein should be appointed meetings.
Plans to address means of The Nomination Committees purpose is to Senior Independent Director SID and improving certain aspects of the operation ensure the Board, its Committees and Shonaid Jemmett-Page should be appointed of the Board and its Committees have individuals who fill other leadership positions Audit Committee Chairman.
Upon their have the right balance of experience and been formulated.
appointment both received a briefing from qualities to deliver the strategic leadership, The Board concluded that it and the Committees the Company Secretary on their roles.
values, management and controls framework were effective and had a sufficient balance of required for the Groups success.
This In the latter stages of 2013, Brian Carpenter skills and experience to enable them to discharge purpose also includes overseeing succession indicated that he intended to retire as an their responsibilities appropriately.
It also planning for key executives and identifying Executive Director during 2014.
Following this concluded that there was an appropriate level of and nominating all candidates for Board indication, the Group Executive reviewed the challenge and discussion to enable the Board appointment for Board approval.
succession plans for Mr Carpenter and and its Committees to work effectively as a unit.
identified suitable individuals within Amlin Activities in 2013 Proposals for re-election to the Board at the to assume his day-to-day managerial Recruiting Non-Executive Directors 2014 AGM responsibilities.
The Board of Amlin The details of the appointment of Julie Having considered the results of the Board Underwriting Limited approved this plan.
Chakraverty, who was appointed to the Board evaluation, the Committee recommended to on 1 January 2013, are in the 2012 Annual The Board supported managements objective the Board that all Non-Executive Directors Report and Accounts.
The Committee used an to develop the Groups general management should be proposed for re-election for a external recruitment consultant, the Miles capability at a senior level.
This was further year at the 2014 AGM, with the Partnership, to help find Ms Chakraverty.
implemented through the development of exception of Sir Alan Collins, who would not talented individuals identified to participate in be seeking re-election.
In the latter stages of 2013, the Committee the Groups Talent Management programme.
instructed Ridgeway Partners Limited to help When reviewing the Non-Executive More information on this can be found on find a further individual, who matches the membership of the Board, the Committee page 38. skills identified to support the Groups noted that the Non-Executive Directors who strategy, taking into account the Boards Noting the comments from the 2012 Board wished to continue their tenure, including the policy on diversity.
evaluation, the Nomination Committee Chairman, demonstrate an appropriate mix of concluded that it would be desirable to recruit insurance and other financial sector Neither of the recruitment consultants an additional Non-Executive Director with knowledge to enable the Non-Executives mentioned above has any other connection specialist insurance experience during 2014. collectively to fulfil their challenge and with the Company.
Recruitment of such a person is underway.
Mrs Jemmett-Page, as a Succession planning Chartered Accountant, is considered by the In early 2014, Sir Alan Collins indicated that he In late 2012, Nigel Buchanan indicated he Committee, the Board and the Audit would not be seeking re-election at the Annual wished to retire as a Director of Amlin at the Committee to have recent and relevant General Meeting in May 2014 and would stand AGM in May 2013.
Given his knowledge of financial experience.
down as a Director with effect from 22 May.
Amlin and the sector, the Board of Amlin Ms Chakraverty is considered by the Underwriting Limited invited him to serve as Board and Committee evaluation Committee and the Board to enhance the risk its Non-Executive Chairman following his Following Independent Board Evaluations and remuneration discussions, having extensive retirement from the Amlin plc Board, which external evaluation in 2012, the Committee experience in these fields during her he subsequently accepted.
Following his agreed with the Chairmans view to conduct professional career in financial services and indication, the Chairman and Nomination an internal evaluation of the Board and its more recently as a non-executive director.
Committee reviewed who should succeed Committees in 2013.
This was conducted Mr Feinstein has over thirty years industry Mr Buchanan as Senior Independent Director through an online survey and the results of experience in the insurance sector and uses his and Audit Committee Chairman.
The Board the evaluations were presented to the Board 2013 Activities Area Comments Review future performance At the suggestion of the Chairman following an external evaluation in 2012, the Committee concluded that an evaluation arrangements.
internal review should be conducted in 2013.
The review focused on addressing the comments raised in the external evaluation.
A fuller internal evaluation will be conducted during 2014, with an external evaluation conducted in 2015.
Management The Committee reviewed the succession planning for the Chief Executive and, following an indication that he would succession planning.
On the Committees recommendation, the Board also reviewed, in conjunction with a review of the Companys Talent Management programme, succession planning for the key executives.
Board recruitment and The Committee considered the balance of skills on the Board, recognising the need to replace certain Directors who succession planning.
would reach their maximum nine-year tenure in the next two years and approved a brief for the commencement recruiting a further Non-Executive Director.
74 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS experience as a former CEO to challenge and complementary to each other and those of the By Order of the Board, on the encourage management as well as acting as a Non-Executive Directors, and recommended recommendation of the sounding board for the Chairman when to the Board that each Executive Director Nomination Committee required.
Sir Mark Wrightson has an extensive should be proposed for re-election at the knowledge of the financial services sector and 2014 AGM for a further full year.
of the remuneration arrangements of Amlin No member of the Committee or Director and informs the Boards debates accordingly.
participated in any decision regarding his or After reviewing the Boards executive her own position.
membership, the Committee concluded that You can find biographical details of each the Executive Directors bring skills and M P D Stevens Director on pages 64 to 65. experience to the Board that are Group Company Secretary 28 February 2014 Internal Board evaluation process Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013 Q1 2014 Results of prior-year evaluation reviewed, action Draft questionnaires agreed Company Secretary Board taken identified and key with evaluators and method Questionnaires returned Chairman and Chairmen of themes for forthcoming of delivery confirmed Committees discuss results evaluation set out One to one interview Board & Committees review Terms of Reference agreed SID discusses Chairman regarding the Chairman results of evaluation and with Committee and evaluation results conducted with Board actions to be taken agreed Board Chairman with Chairman members by the SID and monitored Board policy on diversity Amlin remains committed to its policy of diversity, including diverse skills, experience, nationality and gender, in its appointments to the Board and within the Executive.
The diversity policy sets out the criteria for recruitment: recruiting individuals on merit and their suitability for the role, and cognisant of the skills and experience of the other Directors and senior management.
In 2011, the Board agreed an aspiration that, by the end of 2015, 20% of the Board should comprise women.
The Board achieved this target in May 2013.
Age diversity on Amlin plc Age diversity on Amlin plc Board diversity Board diversity Executive Non-Executive split Executive Non-Executive split Board of Directors Board of Directors 41 50 20% 61 65 40% Male 80% Female 20% Executive 40% Non-Executive Data to be updated including 51 60 40% Chairman 60% Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 75
