STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk & Solvency Committee report Committee membership Meetings attended Marty Feinstein Chairman 5 5 1 Julie Chakraverty 4 5 Sir Alan Collins 5 5 Richard Davey 5 5 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 5 5 2 Former Members Nigel Buchanan 2 2 Note: 1.
Julie Chakraverty was unable to attend the April meeting due to a commitment made before her appointment to the Committee.
Nigel Buchanan retired from the Committee on 16 May 2013.
Marty Feinstein, Committee Chairman To date, Lloyds has pushed the London market hard on Solvency II Dear Shareholder and Amlin remains rated green for full Model Approval.
This means we are meeting the principles of Lloyds tests and standards.
Via the In 2013, I completed my first full year as Chairman of the Swiss Solvency Test, the Swiss regulator, FINMA, has confirmed it has Committee.
I am ably assisted and supported in my role by my no concerns over the Amlin AG Internal Model.
fellow Committee members, Sir Alan Collins, Julie Chakraverty, Richard Davey, and Shonaid Jemmett-Page.
Each offers a variety Amlin has invested significantly in exposure management, catastrophe of experience from their respective business backgrounds, as modelling capabilities, and systems for capturing investment data and measuring investment risk.
We have advanced our risk management described in the biographical information on pages 64 to 65. and governance capabilities.
The risk management framework is now We operate in a challenging regulatory environment and the Committees fully in place across the Group, with all insurer entities producing understanding of the complexities of risk and its mitigation evolves with quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA reports for their those changes.
The Committee is ably supported in this area by executive risk committees.
Additionally, Standard and Poors has recognised our management.
The Chief Risk Officer, James Illingworth, and the Chief Enterprise Risk Management ERM capability by upgrading our ERM Executive, Charles Philipps, attend every meeting.
rating from Adequate to Strong.
The Risk & Solvency Committee oversees validating the model, and challenges the Group on We also call on other technical areas to present as necessary.
For management assumptions regarding risk.
The Internal Model is now example, in our August meeting, we asked some of the Groups used throughout the Group, challenging business plans and reinsurance actuarial team to present on the technical pricing programme and how arrangements, and measuring risk against pre-defined tolerances.
the Internal Model is used to help deliver risk-based technical pricing benchmarks.
It is important that we retain our primary role: challenging The Internal Model has developed to become a key tool in assessing risk executive management effectively and robustly on evaluating and and solvency for the Group and its subsidiaries.
It is therefore important controlling the key current and emerging risks facing the business.
We that management, overseen by the Risk & Solvency Committee, operate put these matters at the forefront of all our discussions.
a good framework for validating the model.
Having used external actuarial review in previous years, the risk function developed an internal Following the announcement that the European Parliaments trilogue programme performed by experts in the business.
This has led to discussions on the Omnibus Directive had reached agreement, the improvements to the validation framework and some requirements for future of the Solvency II directive is more certain, with a proposed our actuarial team to develop and enhance the model.
We are now working towards completing our Solvency II preparations by the end of 2015.
While there has been much progress to date, regulators must clarify their interpretation of the legislation and how it will affect Amlin.
There is We first established our Solvency II preparations as part of our TOMCaT still some additional work to do, particularly regarding the Pillar III programme, which concluded in June 2012.
The programme ensured external reporting.
However, the foundations we are laying, and the we were at the forefront of adopting the Solvency II proposals and one effective challenge from all Group Risk Committees under this of the first businesses to submit details of our Internal Model for Committees guidance, should ensure Amlin is fully prepared.
The Financial Services Authority FSA and, more recently, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, have reviewed our Yours sincerely Group Internal Model.
The Amlin Europe Internal Model has also been subject to review by the Dutch National Bank.
Amlin has intended to achieve Model Approval for all of its underwriting subsidiaries but we will continue to review the options for use of the Standard Formula for calculation of capital requirements for any part of the Groups business if it represents the most appropriate solution.
We are acting on Marty Feinstein feedback to ensure we will comply fully with Solvency II when the 28 February 2014 regulations come into force whether it be through full model approval or use of the Standard Formula.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 81 Risk & Solvency Committee report continued Key items in Terms of Reference: Lead the review of risk management, risk Review the adequacy, effectiveness and The Board last reviewed the Terms of appetite, and regulatory capital: governance of the Groups internal model: Reference on 13 November 2013, which and you can find on the Companys website Review and make recommendations to the at www.
Board regarding the ORSA: Review with the Audit Committee the effectiveness of internal controls and risk-management systems, and enable recommendation to the Board for approving the internal control statement.
2013 Activities Area Comments Ensure the Committee actively used the ORSA to The Committee reviewed the ORSA quarterly, with a focus on areas such as: risks outside of review and challenge the risk and solvency Group tolerance, weak controls and emerging risks.
Key factors impacting solvency, such as status of the Group and its regulated entities.
catastrophe risk and the reinsurance programme, received further attention.
Oversee and guide the Internal Model validation Internal Model validation reports were received, highlighting actions required to address items process and reporting, and ensure these meet raised by the DNB and PRA, or through the validation review process.
Periodically review aspects of the Risk The Committee reviewed the Risk Management Framework regularly through reports received Management Framework to ensure it remains from the Corporate Centre Risk function and Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee also reviewed effective and fit for purpose.
the Internal Control Statement with the Audit Committee to ensure that this adequately reflected the Risk Management Framework and the controls reported to the Committee.
Direct the nature of stress and reverse stress The Committee considered and approved the stress-testing scenarios used throughout the tests to apply to the organisations business Group and received a report on the outcomes.
The Committee draws on its wide and varied strategy and plans, and provide assurance that experience to provide the human element of challenge.
these are robust under a range of future scenarios.
Areas of concern raised by the Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee received regular reports on matters on which the Chief Risk Officer had specific concerns in addition to the reporting generated by the ORSA.
These included unmodelled catastrophe risk exposures and the strategic risk posed by changing market trading conditions.
The Committee received a detailed presentation on the application of, and risk attaching to, implementing technical pricing.
You can find further information on technical pricing in the underwriting report on page 22.
Governance The Committee meets at least five times a year.
The February meeting is usually joint with the Audit Committee to consider the Statement on Internal Controls and Principal Risks and Uncertainties for the business, both of which are contained in the Annual Report.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance & Operations Director, and the Chief Risk Officer are expected to attend all meetings.
The Committee meets wit h the Chief Risk Officer at least once a year without executive management being present.
The Committee has t he authority to engage its own independent external advice at the Companys expense, although no external advice was requested during 2013.
82 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Case study Validating the Internal Model The Risk & Solvency Committee played an important part in retaining oversight of the entire Internal Model validation process and its outcomes.
Earlier in 2013, the Committee reviewed the findings of the previous years Independent Validation reports.
The Committee noted that the independent reviewer could reaffirm that Amlins model was fit for purpose under Solvency II for Amlin Underwriting Limited and Amlin Europe.
However, a few issues were raised, relating particularly to the data quality issues surrounding catastrophe risk data and documenting the model itself.
The Committee reviewed Amlins response to these and monitored the programme for implementing remedial actions.
Further internal independent validation of the internal model took place in 2013 for the AE, AUL and AIUKL internal models Amlin AG and Group are working progress.
The completed reports were shared with relevant regulators and Amlin is working on addressing any improvement actions recommended.
Oversight activities during 2013 The main purpose of the Risk & Solvency Committee is to effectively and robustly challenge executive managements assumptions concerning the key and emerging risks facing the business.
The main oversight areas of focus are set out below.
Significant Issues Area of Focus Action ORSA The ORSA is now used to a greater extent to consider and challenge Group risk and solvency strategy.
All major risks within the categories of market, underwriting, credit and operational risk are reviewed and challenged.
This is particularly important in the business planning process, where levels of risk and reward are articulated and modelled output is used, for instance, to ensure understanding of the reinsurance programmes value.
Internal Model The Committee plays an important role in challenging data quality and validating the Internal Model.
Major model changes are brought to the Committee for approval.
It is also important that the limitations of any model are recognised.
Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework is well developed.
You can find more details on pages 42 to 43.
The Committee reviews it regularly to ensure it remains effective.
Key and emerging risks The Committee undertakes more detailed analysis of key and emerging risks.
During 2013, the Committee considered and challenged on a broad range of emerging and ongoing risks outside the modelling and solvency areas.
The Committee reviewed the mitigation in place for IT & cyber risk, strategic risk for example capital market developments and conduct & reputational risk for example sanctions policy adherence, reviewing industry practices towards counterparties and potential areas of business exposure as the geo-political environment changes in Asia and the Middle East.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of the Risk & Solvency Committee M P D Stevens Group Company Secretary 28 February 2014 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 83
