Audit Committee report Committee membership Meetings attended 1 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 4 4 Chairman Sir Alan Collins 4 4 Marty Feinstein 4 4 2 Former Members Nigel Buchanan 2 2 Notes: 1.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page was appointed Chairman on 16 May 2013.
Nigel Buchanan retired from the Committee on 16 May 2013.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page, Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Last year saw legislative changes and new guidance relating to the Following the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2013, I Audit Committees role.
These include: was delighted to take up the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I would like to thank Nigel Buchanan for his Advising the Board on whether the process for the preparation of the strong leadership of the Committee over the previous eight Annual Report and Accounts ensures this document, taken as a years.
Sir Alan Collins is due to retire from the Board in whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the May 2014 and I thank him for his guidance during his time information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Reporting on review and challenge of the significant accounting As part of my induction to the role as Committee Chairman during judgements made in drawing up the financial statements.
2013, I attended the Audit Committees of Amlin Europe AE and The assessment of the external auditors effectiveness and Amlin Underwriting Limited AUL, and a board meeting of independence: and Amlin AG AAG.
This gave me a good insight into how each forum oversees the audit and compliance elements of their respective The assessment of the Internal Audit functions effectiveness.
It also enabled me to review how each meeting operated Additionally, the Committee monitored a number of compliance and assess whether the relevant issues were being examined robustly matters that arose within AUL and AUK.
We held discussions with at a local level.
I was pleased to conclude that AUL and AAG are executives, risk managers and compliance officers aimed to reassure addressing audit issues effectively.
the Committee that AUL and AUK were progressing appropriately in addressing these issues and that the businesses have a robust The AE Audit Committee progressed significantly in 2013. AEs control operational framework going into 2014.
You can find further environment improved during the year and we will monitor this to information regarding these matters on page 79. ensure satisfactory progress continues.
However, there are areas for improvement, including ensuring management completes remedial The Committee reviewed the Groups cyber-security risks and actions within the timelines agreed with Internal Audit, and ensuring responded to a survey issued by the Department of Business the Committee engages more with the external auditors, Innovation and Skills BIS.
The Committee also received an update on  LLP PwC.
Project Nexus at each meeting.
This ensured the Committee monitored potential risks arising from the project.
Please see page 9 for further details on Nexus.
In the following pages, you can read more about the Committees work in 2013 and our key focus areas for the coming year.
Yours sincerely Shonaid Jemmett-Page 28 February 2014 76 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key items in Terms of Reference: Monitor the integrity of the Companys Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Lead the review process and make financial statements and any formal Groups Internal Audit function, and agree an recommendations to the Board regarding the announcements relating to the Companys effective Group internal audit programme with appointment of external auditors: financial performance.
This includes advising the Head of Internal Audit: Approve the external auditors remuneration: on the integrity of the financial statements Monitor and review the Group Compliance and and whether the process behind the functions effectiveness, and agree an effective Review the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
production of the Annual Report and Group Compliance programme with the Head Accounts leads to a document that is fair, The Board last reviewed the Terms of of Group Compliance: balanced and understandable: Reference on 13 November 2013.
You Review the effectiveness of the system of can find them on the Companys website internal control: at www.
2013 Activities Area Comments Review the effectiveness of the Groups current The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of internal control and compliance regimes in internal control and compliance regimes.
The Committee paid particular attention to Amlin UK, ensuring it was making appropriate progress to address a number of compliance matters raised by AUL Compliance.
Review and approve the Companys interim The Committee focused particularly on the significant areas of material accounting financial results statements, and Annual Report subjectivity.
These included reserving and revisions to income estimates and the consolidation and Accounts.
of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Leadenhall.
See Significant Issues on page 78 for more details.
Recommend the appointment of auditors The Committee reviewed the independence of PwC as the Companys auditors and considered and approval of audit fees.
This included the balance between audit and non-audit fees, and the nature of non-audit services provided.
Review and approve the Internal Audit and The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit and Compliance plans for 2014, and the process Compliance plans for 2014. behind the formulation of both plans.
The Committee highlighted several areas of work it felt should be prioritised, including controls relating to the FCAs conduct rules and anti-bribery controls.
Monitor progress on the 2013 plans for Internal The Committee received updates at each meeting from the Head of Internal Audit and the Audit and Compliance.
Group Head of Compliance on the Internal Audit and Compliance plans respectively.
These updates ensured the Committee was informed of Internal Audit activity over the previous quarter, and compliance matters across the Group were reported by exception.
The Committee monitored progress against plan and challenged time frames as appropriate.
Effect a successful handover to a new A full handover and induction programme was provided to the new Committee Chairman.
Additionally, the Committee evaluation confirmed the successful transition to a new Chairman.
Governance The Committee meets at least four times a year.
The February The Committee meets separately with PwC, the Head of Internal meeting is usually held with the Risk & Solvency Committee to Audit and Head of Group Compliance without executive management consider the Statement on Internal Controls and Principal Risks and being present.
Uncertainties for the Group, which are contained within this The Committee has the authority to engage its own independent Annual Report.
external advice at the Companys expense.
During 2013, no external The Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, Group Finance & advice was requested.
Operations Director, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Head of Group Compliance usually attend all meetings.
PwC, the Companys external auditor, is invited to every meeting.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 77 Audit Committee report continued Financial reporting The Committees main financial reporting focus was on the integrity of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and its Interim Management Statements.
The Committee paid particular attention to the significant assumptions supporting the reported figures to ensure these were justified and that there was appropriate disclosure of the key judgements and estimates supporting these assumptions.
The significant issues considered for 2013, were: Significant issues Area of focus Action Reserving risk Insurance business is inherently uncertain and much of Amlins business is large commercial insurance or reinsurance, claims from which can be volatile and difficult to estimate.
There is a risk that the reserves carried are not sufficient to meet insurance claims liabilities reported or paid in future years on policy periods which have expired.
The Group adopts a rigorous process in the calculation of an adequate provision for insurance claim liabilities.
The overriding aim is to establish prudent reserves.
Therefore, the level of reserves are set at a level above the actuarial best estimate position and consistency of reserving strength is an important objective.
The reserve margin over actuarial best estimate is a key measure for Group management.
The reserve margin has remained broadly consistent year on year both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the underlying reserves, despite prior period reserve releases of 133.5 2012: 94.2m.
This provides comfort that the reserving methodology has an element of prudence incorporated.
There are also qualitative factors that provide additional comfort on reserve strength including catastrophe claims across 2011 and 2012 that are more mature, with limited development, and reduced volatility of Amlin Europes reserves following recent re-underwriting and resolution of a number of material claims issues.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and challenged key reserving judgements and accepted managements position that the reserves are appropriate.
Income Revenue recognised on policies written through third parties, such as binding authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be written in estimation full at the inception of the contract and an estimate of likely gross written premium is made at this stage.
There is a risk that the estimate and actual premium realised are materially different.
Income estimates are reviewed on a quarterly basis using underwriter estimates and actuarial projections.
Gross written premium for 2013 of 2,467.4m is impacted by a reduction of 42.2m to income estimates on binding authorities written by Amlin UK, mainly relating to the 2012 underwriting year.
This portfolio has expanded rapidly in recent years, with material new business, making the income estimation process inherently more difficult.
While income estimation processes are inherently subjective, the quality of the estimate will be influenced by the nature and maturity of the portfolio, availability of timely data, relevant underwriting input to the estimating process and management review.
Estimations for the majority of Amlins business have proven to be robust over time.
Estimation for Amlin UKs binders is expected to improve further as portfolio growth stabilises and new business matures.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the controls operated by management in this area and the income recognition judgements made and has accepted that the outcomes in relation to the financial statements are appropriate.
Leadenhall The Group holds a 40% interest in Leadenhall with the remainder held by management.
Under the partnership agreement, there option valuation exist a number of options which allow either the Group or management to purchase the remaining shares and voting rights of Leadenhall.
The options are accounted for as derivative instruments held at fair value note 18.
The valuation of these options is highly judgemental as i no liquid market exists, ii the partnership is relatively young and iii the partnership is growing quickly in a rapidly developing market.
Consequently, the estimation of future cash flows is highly subjective.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the approach taken to the valuations of each of the options and has concluded the option exercise prices are at a level that they do not have material value at 31 December 2013.
This conclusion was reached having considered a number of valuation techniques, including value in use and estimated open market fair value, incorporating both quantitative and qualitative factors.
Leadenhall As described above, the Group has the option to acquire the remaining 60% share of the partnership and the associated voting consolidation rights that it currently does not hold.
This is exercisable within one month of the delivery of the partnerships audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Given the close proximity of the option exercise date, the Group has reassessed whether it controls Leadenhall and should consolidate Leadenhall in its 2013 financial statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed this assessment and concluded the Group does not have control of Leadenhall and should continue to account for it using the equity method, as set out in note 4.
The Groups call option is considered to be out of the money and as such the Group continues to have insufficient voting rights to direct the relevant activities of Leadenhall, and the other partners continue to act independently in exercising their rights and powers under the terms of the partnership agreement.
78 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal control and compliance Internal audit The Committee reviews the effectiveness The Committees role relating to internal The Committee reviews the work undertaken of the external audit process and the control is set out in the Boards internal by Internal Audit at each meeting.
The report independence of the external auditor control statement page 71 within the from the Head of Internal Audit includes an throughout the year, and undertook and Corporate governance statement.
update on the current Internal Audit plan, the discussed a formal internal assessment findings of all internal audit reports and during 2013.
The review concluded that The Committee receives a report from the consequent actions agreed with management.
the external auditor is effective and Head of Group Compliance at each meeting.
In accordance with section Issues covered during 2013 included UK The Committee held two private sessions with 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a regulation updates, Solvency II the Head of Internal Audit during the year resolution proposing the reappointment of implementation, anti-bribery and corruption and was able to question the outcome of any PwC as Group auditor will be put to the measures, and entity-specific updates.
Furthermore, the Committee closely shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Committee also approves the annual monitored managements progress in compliance plan.
addressing the actions resulting from internal Non-audit services audit reports.
We continue to monitor the use of the The Committee monitored the Groups external auditors for non-audit services to compliance with the PRA Prudential An assessment of the effectiveness of internal ensure compliance with policy.
The policy Regulation Authority, the FCA, Lloyds audit was undertaken in the latter half of the details the circumstances in which the and other regulatory requirements and year.
It concluded that the Internal Audit auditors may be permitted to undertake nonrecommendations.
It also reviewed the function was effective, noting areas for audit work for the Group.
Non-audit services Groups whistleblowing process and development and areas of strength.
A may be approved in specific areas such as, challenged whether the Groups wider development plan to address the areas but not limited to, transaction due diligence, grievance process was working effectively.
requiring improvement will be implemented accountancy training and providing bespoke Further work on the Groups grievance and in 2014, along with a co-ordinated plan to software.
Services prohibited in the policy whistleblowing process is planned for 2014. ensure compliance with the CIIA Guidance on include preparing statutory accounts, This will ensure it remains fit for purpose Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Sector selecting accounting policies: designing and and effective.
by the end of 2014. implementing internal controls or processes, During 2013, the Committee reviewed, inter and financial information systems: valuation External audit alia, expert reports, commissioned by Amlin, services: tax compliance and advice on PwC was appointed as Amlins external relating to aspects of Amlin UKs compliance tax structures.
auditors in 2009, following a comprehensive with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA competitive tender process.
The Committee rules and principles, and the management will monitor the development of the new response thereto.
The reports covered requirements on audit tendering from compliance with specific rules as well as the Competition Commission and the wider cultural and operational aspects.
agreed remediation plan should put Amlin UK It is an Auditing Practices Board requirement in a good position to demonstrate that it is that the external auditor rotates the audit meeting expectations regarding the fair partner for the Group every five years.
The Committee current lead audit partner will have been in ensured that the management response was place for five years in 2014 and a new lead robust, and addressed operational and audit partner will be appointed in line with the organisational weaknesses in a single project, requirement.
The Audit Committee Chairman alongside the compliance issues.
The met with the proposed new audit partner in Committee will continue to receive updates 2013 to discuss the appointment.
One of the on remediation activities relating to these Committees key objectives in 2014 will be reports during 2014, and will ensure that the monitoring the transition from one partner necessary enhancements will be deployed to to the other.
other parts of the Group as appropriate.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 79 Audit Committee report continued The authorisation limits for non-audit services allowed by the policy are: Chief Executive or Chief Financial & Operations Officer 50,000 Audit Committee Chairman 50,000 250,000 Audit Committee 250,000 500,000 This includes where the aggregate of all annual non-audit fees is above 500,000.
The policy aims to ensure the independence of the external auditors is maintained and that Amlin complies with all legislation relating to non-audit services in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In 2013, legislation was introduced in the Netherlands which restricted non-audit services to Dutch public-interest entities, which we believe includes Amlin Europe N. V.. No material changes to the policy were made during the year.
However, the executive and Audit Committee reviewed the procedure for appointing PwC for non-audit work and supported the proposal that all such work was robustly challenged.
In addition to Amlins policy, PwC completed its own independence procedures before commencing each piece of work.
During the year, the auditors undertook the following significant non-audit work: Area of non-audit work Area Details Project on casualty exposure monitoring.
Due to its expertise in this area, PwC was engaged to assist in developing a robust framework for monitoring and managing aggregate exposures across the Casualty classes.
This will become more important as business in this area expands across the Group.
Auditing Capital Builder calculations and review.
PwCs knowledge of the Capital Builder scheme meant ensuring scheme rules were applied accurately was a natural extension of this work.
Benchmarking annual compensation in Bermuda.
PwC is a leading provider of benchmarking data in Bermuda.
Due diligence work relating to acquiring RaetsMarine B. V. Given PwCs knowledge of the Group, it was engaged to undertake financial due diligence work for the acquisition.
You can find a detailed breakdown of fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work in note 14 to the accounts.
In 2013, 261,600 was spent on non-audit and assurance services.
2012: 846,100 Committee evaluation A formal review of the Committees effectiveness is conducted annually.
In 2013, the Committee evaluation concluded that the Committee was effective.
You can find further details of the Board and Committee evaluation process, and the outcome of the review undertaken during the year, in the Nomination Committee Report on page 73.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee M P D Stevens Group Company Secretary 28 February 2014 80 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report
