Corporate governance report At a glance Board and Committee reporting structure Amlin plc Board Richard Davey Chief Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk & Solvency Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Charles Philipps Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Davey Sir Mark Wrightson Marty Feinstein Group Management Committee Charles Philipps Investment Group Executive Risk Corporate Centre Group Underwriting Management Executive Committee Operations Committee Review Board Jayne Styles Charles Philipps Richard Hextall Charles Philipps Director attendance at Board meetings in 2013 Board and Board Committee attendance % 2013 Meetings attended Amlin plc Board 98% Richard Davey 6 6 Simon Beale 6 6 Audit Committee 100% 1 Brian Carpenter 5 6 Nomination Committee 100% Julie Chakraverty 6 6 Remuneration Committee 95% Sir Alan Collins 6 6 Marty Feinstein 6 6 Risk & Solvency Committee 96% Richard Hextall 6 6 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 6 6 2012 Charles Philipps 6 6 Amlin plc Board 100% Sir Mark Wrightson 6 6 Former members Audit Committee 100% 2 Nigel Buchanan 2 2 Nomination Committee 100% Notes: 1.
Brian Carpenter did not attend the meeting in October 2013 as he was on sabbatical.
Nigel Buchanan retired from the Board on 16 May 2013.
Risk & Solvency Committee 100% 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 68 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Activities Area Comments 2013 strategic and Strategy was discussed at each Board meeting, in addition to the annual strategy away day, to ensure the operational objectives.
Board was fully involved in formulating the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
Talent management and The Board received two updates during the year.
These updates covered the Groups talent management and succession planning.
graduate recruitment programmes, international mobility, leadership development and succession planning.
The Board discussed and approved the acquisition of RaetsMarine Insurance B. V and subsequent integration into the Group.
A review of Insurance Conduct of Business compliance and wider provisions relating to Treating Customers Fairly within Amlin UK was instigated and an action plan implemented following the results.
A review of Amlin Europes strategy for the development of its business, the opening of a Hamburg branch and of its programme for reducing its expense ratio over the next two years was undertaken.
The Board reviewed the Groups marketing strategy and discussed plans to develop greater client intimacy throughout the organisation.
The Board has worked with external advisers Board Intelligence to undertake a comprehensive review of Board reporting, ensuring clear, concise and consistent reports.
Review of Leadenhall Capital The Board reviewed the influx of ILS insurance-linked securities capital into the market and considered how Partners LLP Leadenhall.
synergies could be created between Leadenhall and Amlins traditional reinsurance businesses, mindful of potential conflicts of interest.
It also reviewed the call option to purchase the remaining shares in Leadenhall in 2014, and supported managements proposals to commence negotiations in late 2013.
Implement conclusions from See the Nomination Committee report page 73.
The Boards role and responsibilities The Chairmans role The Company Secretarys role The Board is responsible for setting the Group The Group Chairman is responsible for In addition to acting as Secretary to the strategy and maintaining high corporate leading the Board and ensuring its Board, the Company Secretary helps the governance standards throughout the Group.
The Chairman sets the agenda: Chairman ensure the Board receives The Board is also responsible for the overall ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely accurate, timely and clear information: supervision and leadership of the Company, and clear information: and sets the tone for organises induction programmes and training and works with, and monitors, the executive Board discussions.
for the Board: and ensures the Board follows in areas of strategy, risk and performance.
Board procedures, including the procedure The Non-Executive Directors for obtaining external advice.
The Company The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters The Non-Executive Directors are all Secretary, or a member of his team, also Reserved for its decision.
This is reviewed independent and, in accordance with the supports each Board Committee.
annually and is available on our website at Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by www.
It was last reviewed in the Companys Articles of Association, the Board effectiveness May 2013.
At this time, no amendments Board has authorised any potential Every year, we evaluate the performance of were required.
the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
You can find further details about You can find details regarding the The Senior Independent Director SID acts this in the Nomination Committee report on responsibilities delegated to the Board as a sounding board for the Chairman and page 73.
Additionally, we undertake an Committees on pages 73 to 105. serves as an intermediary for the other external evaluation every three years.
The last Directors as necessary.
He is also available to At the date of this report, the Board external evaluation took place in 2012. shareholders should they have concerns not comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, five resolved through other channels.
independent Non-Executive Directors, and Executive Committees four Executive Directors.
The Chairman was Executive oversight is conducted through five The Chief Executives role independent on his appointment as a principal management committees.
You can The Chief Executive is responsible for Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Following his find details on page 12. managing the Group and implementing the appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2012, strategy, once it has been set by the Board.
he is not classed as independent.
At the Additionally, the Chief Executive chairs the forthcoming AGM, all the Directors will offer Group Management Committee, the Group themselves for re-election, except for Executive Risk Committee and the Sir Alan Collins who will retire from the Underwriting Review Board.
You can find Board at the AGM.
further details regarding these committees on page 12.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 69 Corporate governance report continued Our Control Framework Subsidiary management including main subsidiary light of the proposed changes to the strategy and to ensure the boards and our Control Framework Boards focus reflects the ongoing development of the business.
The Groups organisational and governance arrangements continue to We have established a framework of Group policies and standards, evolve, and we implemented some changes in 2013.
The relationship and key internal controls, and expect each business to comply between the main Board, its Committees and the main subsidiary with them.
boards and their committees is set out in the diagram below.
Each business or functional unit has clear responsibilities for Each regulated subsidiary has its own executive management and ensuring they have appropriate controls at an operational level, has clear delegation of authority, with Group Executives sitting including those regarding financial reporting processes and risk alongside the relevant business executive management on the management.
The various executive governance bodies discussed boards of each entity.
earlier in this statement are key elements of the overall control During 2013, the Board reviewed the information it receives at a environment.
These bodies receive oral and written reports from consolidated Group level.
The Board agreed a mandate of items it Amlins businesses and support departments.
wished to review over the course of 18 months and, by the end of 2013, had developed a series of reports and key performance indicators KPIs, which will be measured throughout 2014.
The Board agreed to review the mandate again during 2014.
This is in Board and Board Committee structure Amlin plc Board Principal plc Committees Remuneration Nomination Risk & Solvency Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Amlin AG Amlin Underwriting Amlin Europe N. V. Key subsidiary Boards Board Ltd Board Supervisory Board AUL Amlin AG AE Subsidiary Committees Amlin AG Risk Nomination & AUL Risk AUL Audit AE Risk AE Audit Remuneration Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 70 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board internal control statement Risk assessment The Board recognises its responsibility for the Amlins Risk Assessment Process includes Groups risk management and internal control using an Enterprise Risk Management ERM systems.
It has complied with principle C. 2 system.
The ERM system reports on every of the Code by establishing a continuous significant identified risk to achieving Group process for identifying, evaluating and objectives, the nature and effectiveness of managing the significant risks facing the controls, and other management processes to Group.
This process has been in place from manage these risks.
We set risk tolerances for the start of 2013 to the approval date of this key risk categories, for example, catastrophe, report, and includes risks arising from social, reserving, investment and operational risk.
environmental and ethical matters, in The risk management framework accordance with the Turnbull Report.
encompasses self-assessment of controls by Directors are aware that any internal control risk owners throughout the business, coupled system is designed to manage, rather than with the CCRF independently challenging eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve their assertions.
The Internal Audit function business objectives.
They know that the regularly reviews the risks identified by risk systems can only provide reasonable, and owners and the effectiveness of their controls not absolute, assurance against material and operation.
In the The Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Strategic Report on strategy and principal ORSA brings together key metrics on risks on pages 16 to 17 and 44 to 47, you Amlins risk and solvency performance.
Amlin can find further information on how the operates an internal model that captures the Company has maintained a sound system of key economic and risk factors that could internal controls to safeguard shareholders impact the Groups performance.
The ORSA investment and the Companys assets.
is produced quarterly and used to escalate The Risk & Solvency Committee regularly significant risks, their potential impact on the reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Groups financial position, any variations from risk-management system on the Boards the agreed risk appetites, and the actions to behalf.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews manage those risks.
The Group Executive Risk the Groups financial reports, financial Committee and the Risk & Solvency reporting process, regulatory, and compliance Committee review the ORSA.
If significant control failings or Internal audit and compliance weaknesses are identified, they are reported The Groups Internal Audit and Compliance by management, the risk and compliance departments perform our internal audits and function or Internal Audit to the relevant compliance monitoring respectively.
The relevant Committee also departments have a reporting line to the receives regular reports on remediation work Audit Committee.
Internal Audit also reports and discussions with other interested parties, to the Chief Executive, while the Compliance such as regulators.
Department reports to the Chief Risk Officer.
Risk management The Group has established risk-based audit Managed by the Groups Chief Risk Officer, and compliance programmes for reviewing our dedicated Corporate Centre Risk and evaluating the internal controls and Function CCRF oversees the management compliance procedures used to manage risk.
of risk, ensuring each operating entity manages its risk in accordance with Group policies and allocated risk tolerances.
The Group Executive Risk Committee reviews reports from the CCRF and considers appropriate executive actions.
Additionally, each regulated subsidiarys board is responsible for overseeing its risk, supported by executive risk committees for each principal subsidiary.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 71 Corporate governance report continued Assessing our processes Reserving The Board receives regular reports from the Responsibility for reserving rests with the Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency boards of regulated subsidiaries and, at Committee.
The reports review the Groups Group consolidated level, the Board.
The main processes, including matters that are Board recognises that it is important that the the regulatory responsibility of the regulated processes executive management use to subsidiary boards.
These Committees met reach their reserving decisions are objective jointly to perform a specific assessment for and robust.
This role is performed in quarterly this Annual Report.
This assessment reserving meetings, which review and considers all significant aspects of internal propose required reserving levels for each control arising during the period covered by business, subsidiary and for the Group.
the report, including the work of Internal Reserving is agreed at subsidiary board level Audit.
The findings are used to help the each quarter and reviewed twice yearly as a Board discharge its review responsibilities.
whole by the Audit Committee.
Quarterly review meetings receive actuarial During 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed, assessments and risk function challenge, inter alia, expert reports, commissioned by reviewing the consistency and prudence of Amlin, relating to aspects of Amlin UKs the key reserving judgements.
compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules and principles, and the Investments management response thereto.
The reports The setting and execution of the Groups covered compliance with specific rules and investment strategy has its own hierarchy of wider cultural and operational aspects.
The relevant boards are agreed remediation plan should put Amlin UK responsible for setting their Investment in a good position to demonstrate that it is Frameworks that control the practices and meeting expectations regarding the fair procedures governing the management of the treatment of customers.
Within this framework, the Board sets an overall investment risk appetite The Audit Committee also reviewed the and the subsidiary boards agree the Group whistleblowing process and challenged allocation of this risk appetite.
The Investment whether the Groups wider grievance process Management Executive approves the strategic was working effectively.
Further work on the asset allocations and tactical ranges with Groups whistleblowing process in planned day-to-day management responsibility for 2014 to ensure it remains fit for purpose delegated to Group Investments or the and effective.
The aim is Business planning to optimise the returns for the risk being The Group has developed a formal structured taken by adopting a multi-asset, multibusiness planning process for all businesses, manager approach.
Proposed plans are Share capital presented to and agreed by the Group For information concerning the share capital Management Committee and relevant of the Company in accordance with subsidiary boards, consolidated, and then DTR 7.2.
6, see page 106. considered and approved by the Board.
Board reporting of performance against plan By order of the Board operates quarterly, with monthly monitoring at management level.
M P D Stevens Group Company Secretary 28 February 2014 72 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report
