Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Audit and Risk Committee report The composition and summary terms of reference v Share-based payments of the Audit and Risk Committee are set out on It is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee pages 42 and 43. to address, and report upon, compensation matters including share-based payments made to directors The principal activities of the Audit and Risk and employees of the Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee through the year, and the manner in which Committee considers in its review of the financial it discharged its responsibilities, were as follows: statements and receives a report from the external auditors on the quantification and accounting Financial statements treatment related to such payments which are The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the explained in note 10 of the accounts.
FY2012 13 Annual Report, Interim Results, Preliminary Results and reports from the external vi Future IFRS and UK GAAP auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome of their developments reviews and audits in2013.
The Committee has received a report from management and discussed future accounting Significant accounting matters developments likely to affect the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
During the year the Committee considered key accounting issues matters and judgements in vii Revenue recognition relation to the Groups financial statements and During the year the Committee received a disclosures relating to: management report from the external auditors regarding the processing of fee rebates and its i The carrying value of goodwill and treatment on revenue recognition.
The method of intangible assets.
accounting for revenue recognition is described more As more fully explained in note 15 on page 91 fully on pages 81 and 83 in the notes to the accounts.
the goodwill balance within the Group relates principally to the acquisition of Emerging Markets viii Other accounting matters Management LLC EMM in May 2011.
During the During the year, the Committee received year ended 30 June 2013 the Committee critically communications from management and from reviewed the analyses performed by management the external auditor on other accounting matters on goodwill and intangibles and agreed with the including tax strategy, revenue recognition and adjustments made to intangibles and that no overseas reporting.
impairment to goodwill was necessary.
UK Corporate Governance Code ii Assessment of contingent Following the early adoption by the Company consideration in relation to EMM.
of the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Ashmore acquired a 62.94% equity stake in EMM Code, which applies to financial years commencing in May 2011 for which initial and future consideration on or after 1 October 2012, the Board requested that was payable under an earnout provision contingent the Committee advise them on whether it believes on the achievement of agreed milestone targets.
The the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, Committee has reviewed the accounting valuations is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the of the contingent consideration and assessed it to information necessary for shareholders to assess the be nil as measured at 31 May 2013.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
iii The accounting treatment relating to the External auditor acquisition of a minority interest in China Following the acquisition of a 49% stake in AshmoreThe external auditors attend all meetings of the CCSC Fund Management based in China, the Committee.
It is the responsibility of the Committee Committee considered IAS 28 Investments in to monitor the performance, objectivity and Associates and Joint Ventures and determined that independence of the external auditor.
The Committee the newly formed entity would be treated as a joint discusses and agrees the scope of the audit plan venture using the equity method of accounting.
for the full year and the review plan for the interim statement with the auditors.
iv Seed capital investments The Committee reviewed and considered a report The external auditors provide reports at each from management on the change in treatment of Committee meeting on topics such as the seed capital classified as held-for-sale investments control environment, key accounting matters and as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: mandatory communications.
The Committee also Recognition and Measurement.
Gains and losses received a comprehensive presentation from the associated with seed capital classified as held for auditor demonstrating to its satisfaction how their sale are reflected in the Consolidated Statement independence and objectivity is maintained when of Comprehensive Income.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Audit and Risk Committee report continued The Committee has agreed the types of permitted Committee recognises the new requirement in the Code that the external audit contract be put out to tender at and non-permitted non-audit services and those least every ten years.
The Committee continues to be which require explicit prior approval.
All contracts satisfied with the work of KPMG and that they continue for non-audit services in excess of 25,000 must to remain objective and independent.
The Committee has be notified to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk therefore recommended to the Board that a resolution be Committee and approved by him.
put to shareholders for the re-appointment of the auditor, During the year the value of non-audit services and their remuneration and terms of engagement, at the provided by KPMG amounted to 0.6 million Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Whilst non-audit services as a proportion of audit services amount to Internal controls and risk management approximately 120%, the overall quantum of non-audit The Group Head of Risk Management and Control services is not considered to be material given that attends each meeting of the Committee and provides Ashmore operates within a highly regulated market reports to each.
These reports have addressed a and that a significant proportion of the non-audit number of risk related topics and have demonstrated services provided relate to the following matters: how the output of the different Investment, Risk & reporting on our half-year financial statements: Compliance and Pricing and Valuation Methodology Committee discussions throughout the period have providing regular assurance reports to the FCA been effective in highlighting, tracking and contributing as the regulator of Ashmore Investment towards managing key market, counterparty risk and Management Limited : operational risk.
In particular, in relation to operational the provision of tax compliance services: risk, the Committee has also reviewed and discussed acting as reporting accountant in appropriate the Groups Top Risk Matrix which continues to serve circumstances provided there is no element as an effective tool to highlight and monitor the principal of valuation work involved: risks of the Group and its continued evolution, and reporting on internal controls as required under reflects changes in the business profile of the Group ISAE 3402 pursuant to investment management and the corresponding impact to internal controls and industry standards: related processes.
auditing the controls and procedures employed by The Committee also received an interim report on, and the Company relating to the production of investment conducted a review and evaluation of, the system of performance figures over one, three and five year internal controls and risk management operated within periods to conform to the investment management the Company pursuant to the Financial Reporting Council industrys Global Investment Performance Standards.
guidance, Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code formerly the Turnbull The assurance provided by the Group auditor on the Guidance, prior to review by the Board.
items listed above are considered by the Committee to be strictly necessary in the interests of the business Internal audit and, by their nature, these services could not easily Ernst & Young have acted as internal auditor since be provided by another professional auditing firm.
1 July 2009 reporting directly to the Committee.
The The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence Committee has received reports on its findings and transaction services and litigation services may be programme of reviews at each of its meetings during permitted with the Committees prior approval.
The the course of the year.
During the year the Committee provision of internal audit services, valuation work and decided to move to an internally resourced Internal any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of Audit function and this was completed in July 2013 self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
with a handover process and timetable agreed with During the year there were no circumstances where Ernst & Y oung.
KPMG Audit Plc was engaged to provide services Audit and Risk Committee effectiveness which might have led to a conflict of interests.
The members of the Committee conducted a review From time to time during the year the Non-executives of its effectiveness and concluded that it was working met with the external and internal auditors without effectively.
In FY2011 12 an independently facilitated the Executive Directors being present so as to provide review of the effectiveness of the Board, its a forum to raise any matters of concern in confidence.
Committees and the Directors was conducted in The Committee also received a report from the accordance with provision B.
independent KPMG team responsible for the audits of the Ashmore publicly traded funds.
Nick Land KPMG have acted as the auditor to the Company since Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the IPO in October 2006 and the lead audit partner rotates every five years to assure independence.
The 9 September 2013 48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
