Corporate Governance Directors The Board of Directors comprises two Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
The two Chairmans introduction Executive Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief In May 2010 the FRC published a new edition of the UK Executive Officer, and Graeme Dell, the Group Corporate Governance Code which applies to financial Finance Director.
The Non-executive Directors years beginning on or after 29 June 2010. are Michael Benson, Chairman: Nick Land, Senior Independent Director: Melda Donnelly, Simon Fraser, The Group has been in compliance with the Code and Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle.
With its predecessor versions since Admission to listing the exception of Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne on the London Stock Exchange on 17 October 2006, Pringle, who both joined the Board on 19 February except where the Directors consider that in particular 2013, all Directors served throughout the year.
limited circumstances, departure may be justified andexplained.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and approval, which include, No departures from the Code occurred during the year but are not limited to: under review.
the Groups long-term commercial objectives A new edition of the Code was published in September andstrategy: 2012 and applies to reporting periods beginning on or major acquisitions, disposals and investments: after 1 October 2012. the Groups annual and interim reports and financial The Group has chosen to adopt the new provisions statements: in the revised Code for the year under review and interim dividend and recommendation references to the Code in this Annual Report are to the of finaldividend: 2012 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
annual budgets and forecast updates: This report describes the Groups corporate governance significant capital expenditure: and arrangements, explaining how it has applied the principles of the Code.
the effectiveness of internal controls.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly defined and have been approved Michael Benson by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the Chairman effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy and for the day-to-day management of the Group.
Our governance framework PLC Board of Directors PLC Remuneration Committee PLC Executive Directors PLC Audit and Risk Committee Specialised Committees Investment Committee Global Investment Performance Pricing Methodology and Standards Committee Valuation Committee Risk and Compliance Committee Product Committee Foreign Exchange Management Internal auditors External auditors Committee IT Steering Group Independent assurance Independent assurance via audit directed at specific via audit of Group Financial departmental control procedures Statements and audit of internal Senior management control procedures 40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements In considering Non-executive Director independence, appointed by the Board must offer himself herself the Board has taken into consideration the guidance for election at the next Annual General Meeting of provided by the Code.
The Board considers Michael the Company following his appointment but he is not Benson, Nick Land, Melda Donnelly, Simon Fraser, taken into account in determining the Directors or Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle to the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation be independent.
Nick Land is the Senior at that meeting.
The Directors to retire by rotation must be those During the year under review the Group complied who held office at the time of the two preceding with the Code requirement that at least half of the Annual General Meetings and did not retire at either Board consist of independent Directors excluding of them or if they have held office with the Company the Chairman.
for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The office Biographical details of the Directors are given of Director shall be vacated in other circumstances, on page 39. including where i that Director resigns or is asked The Board meets a minimum of six times during to resign: ii they are or have been suffering from the year to review financial performance and strategy mental ill health: iii they are absent without and to follow the formal schedule of matters permission of the Board from meetings of the reserved for its decision.
Comprehensive Board Board for six consecutive months: iv they become papers, comprising an agenda and formal reports bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance or v they are prohibited by law from being a of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office, Director.
Notwithstanding these provisions the Directors are continually updated by means of Board has adopted provision B.
7.1 of the Code and written and verbal reports from senior executives therefore all Directors will retire and seek re-election and external advisers on the Groups business, at the Annual General Meeting on 30 October 2013. and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, corporate Powers of the Directors governance, corporate social responsibility and other Subject to the Companys Articles, the Companies relevant matters.
Acts and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company In addition to its formal business, the Board received is managed by the Board, who may exercise all a number of briefings and presentations from powers of the Company, whether relating to the executive management during the year covering a management of the business of the Company or not.
wide range of topics across the range of the Groups business.
All Directors have access to independent Annual performance evaluation professional advice, if required, at the Companys The Code recommends that the Board should expense as well as to the advice and services of undertake a formal annual evaluation of its own the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed performance and that of its committees and to the Board will receive advice as to the legal and individual Directors and that an externally facilitated other duties and obligations arising from the role evaluation should be undertaken at least once every of a director of a UK listed company within a full, three years.
An independent externally facilitated formal and tailored induction programme.
The evaluation was undertaken by Condign Board Company Secretary, under the direction of the Consulting which has no other connection with the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining an adequate Company in the reporting year FY2011 12.
For the continuing education programme, reminding the year under review the Board conducted an internal Directors of their duties and obligations on a regular evaluation of its own performance and that of its basis, ensuring good information flows between committees and individual Directors led by the the Board, its committees and management and Chairman and assisted by the Company Secretary.
assisting with Directors continuing professional Meetings were held between each Director and developmentneeds.
the Chairman in which issues and developments The Companys Nominations Committee over the year were discussed and performance was considers the appointment and replacement considered by reference to the objectives of the of Directors subject to the rules set out in the Board and its committees.
The issues raised during Articles, a summary of which is set out below.
this process were discussed by the Board together.
Under the Articles, the minimum number of The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Directors shall be two and the maximum shall be Independent Non-executive Director also evaluated nine.
Directors may be appointed by the Company the performance of the Chairman and gave feedback by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director which was also reflected in the Board discussion.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 Corporate Governance continued Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Board and committee attendance Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of scheduled meetings between 1 July 2012 and 30 June 2013 6 2 4 4 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 1 Mark Coombs 100% 1 Graeme Dell 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% 2 Melda Donnelly 100% 100% 100% 3 Simon Fraser 83% 100% 100% 100% 4 Charles Outhwaite 100% 4 Dame Anne Pringle 100% 1.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board Committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
Melda Donnelly was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 31 October 2012.
Simon Fraser was appointed to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees on 31 October 2012.
Charles Outhwaite and Dame Anne Pringle joined the Board on 19 February 2013 and have attended all Board meetings since that date.
The Board believes that, following the completion Audit and Risk Committee of the performance evaluation, the performance of During the year under review the Audit and Risk the Directors continues to be effective and that they Committee comprised the following Non-executive continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Directors and was fully compliant with the Code: Nick Land Chairman Any Directors who are not members of Board Melda Donnelly Committees are also invited to attend meetings Simon Fraser of such Committees as necessary.
The Board is satisfied that for the year under review Board committees and thereafter Nick Land, Melda Donnelly and Simon The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, Fraser had and have recent and relevant commercial Remuneration and Nominations Committees and financial knowledge and experience to satisfy to assist in the execution of its duties.
the provisions of the Code.
Nick Land and Melda Donnelly are Chartered Accountants and Simon All of these committees operate within written terms Fraser has previously served as Global Chief of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The terms Investment Officer with Fidelity International.
of reference of the committees are reviewed annually consistent with changes in legislation A report on the activities of the Audit and and best practice.
Risk Committee is set out below.
The terms of reference for the committee take into account The chairman of each committee reports regularly the requirements of the Code and are available to the Board.
for inspection at the registered office and at the Each of the committees is authorised, at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on Companys expense, to obtain external legal or other the Company website at www.
professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Only the members of each committee are entitled Committee include: to attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and external advisors, may be invited monitoring the integrity of the financial statements to attend as appropriate.
of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance Current membership of the committees is shown and any significant financial issues and in the relevant sections below.
The composition judgements contained in them: of these committees is reviewed annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the reviewing the Groups draft annual financial Nominations Committee.
statements and interim results statement prior to 42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements discussion and approval by the Board and reviewing Remuneration Committee the external auditors detailed reports thereon: The Group complied during the year with the Code requirement that the Remuneration Committee should reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit consist of at least three independent Non-executive of the Groups financial statements, receiving and Directors.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired reviewing confirmations of auditor independence until 10 September 2012 by Jonathan Asquith with and approving the terms of engagement and Michael Benson and Nick Land as members, Michael proposed fees for the audit: Benson and Nick Land served on the Remuneration making recommendations to the Board for a Committee throughout the year.
Nick Land assumed resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the role of the Chairman of the Remuneration the re-appointment of the external auditor: Committee on 10 September 2012 and Simon Fraser reviewing the level and amount of external auditor joined the Committee on 31 October 2012. non-audit services: A report on the activities of the Remuneration reviewing the Groups internal control and risk Committee is included in the Remuneration report management systems, reporting to the Board on pages 56 to 66.
The terms of reference for the on the results of this review and receiving updates Remuneration Committee take into account the on key risks and controls: requirements of the Code and are available for overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk inspection at the registered office, at the Annual management and oversight arrangements of the General Meeting and can also be found on the executive and the design and execution of stress Company website at www.
and scenario testing: The terms of reference for the Remuneration overseeing and challenging due diligence on risk Committee include: issues relating to material transactions and strategic reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and proposals that are subject to approval by the Board: relevance of the remuneration policy: considering and approving the remit of the risk reviewing the design of all share incentive plans management function and ensuring that it has for approval by the Board and shareholders: adequate independence: ensuring that members of the executive reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees terms management of the Company are provided with of reference, carrying out an annual performance appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory performance and that remuneration incentives operation of the Committee: and are compatible with the Companys risk policies reporting to the Board on how it has discharged and systems: its responsibilities.
making recommendations to the Board as to the Companys framework or broad policy for The Audit and Risk Committee has requested and the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive received reports from management to enable it to Directors and the Company Secretary and to fulfil its duties under its terms of reference.
determine their total individual remuneration The Audit and Risk Committee also has responsibility packages including bonuses, incentive payments for reviewing the Companys arrangements on and share options or other share awards: whistle-blowing, ensuring that appropriate ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive arrangements are in place for employees to be able to Directors remuneration is structured so as to link raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, rewards to corporate and individual performance with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
and that performance conditions are stretching and designed to promote the long-term success The Audit and Risk Committee has the authority to of the Company: and seek any information it requires to perform its duties from any employee of the Company and to obtain ensuring that contractual terms on termination, outside legal or other independent professional and any payments made, are fair to the individual advice as appropriate.
and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The number of Audit and Risk Committee meetings and their attendance by the Directors The number of Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in the table on page 42.
Representatives and their attendance by the Directors are set out in of KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Finance Director, the table on page 42.
In addition, and in accordance Group Head of Risk and Group Internal Auditor with the terms of reference, the members of the attend each meeting as a matter of practice and Remuneration Committee were also consulted on presentations are made by the executive a range of issues during the year, including specific management as required.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Corporate Governance continued These documents are also made available on Nominations Committee the Companys website where formal regulatory The Nominations Committee comprises four information service announcements are also posted.
Non-executive Directors, Michael Benson as The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Chairman, Nick Land, Melda Donnelly and Simon Director make regular reports to the Board on Fraser.
Michael Benson and Nick Land served investor relations and on specific discussions with on the Nominations Committee throughout the year major shareholders and the Board receives copies and Melda Donnelly and Simon Fraser joined the of all research published on the Company.
The 2013 Annual General Meeting will be attended The terms of reference for the Committee take by all Directors, and the Chairmen of the Audit and into account the requirements of the Code and are Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees available for inspection at the registered office and at will be available to answer questions.
Private the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on investors are encouraged to attend the Annual the Company website at www.
The terms of reference for the Nominations The Senior Independent Director is available Committee include: to shareholders if they have concerns which reviewing the structure, size and composition contact through the normal channels of Chairman, including the skills, knowledge and experience Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director of the Board and its committees: has failed to resolve or for which such contact reviewing annually the time required from each is inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer Non-executive Director, using performance major shareholders the opportunity to meet any evaluation to assess whether the Non-executive or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director is giving sufficient commitment to the role: Director and any new Directors.
giving full consideration to succession planning The Group will announce via a regulatory information in the course of its work, taking into account the service the number of proxy votes cast on challenges and opportunities facing the Company resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and any and what skills and expertise are needed on the other general meetings.
Board in the future: Internal control and risk management ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive Directors receive a formal letter of In accordance with the principles of the Code, the appointment setting out clearly what is expected Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups risk of them in terms of time commitment, committee management and internal control systems and for service and involvement outside Board meetings.
Such systems and their review are designed to manage rather than eliminate During the year the activities of the Nominations the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Committee have included reviewing the requirements and can only provide reasonable and not absolute for potential independent Non-executive candidates assurance against material misstatement or loss.
for appointment to the Board, proposals for re-election of Directors at the Annual General Within the Groups over-arching corporate Meeting, and reviewing its terms of reference.
governance framework, through which the Board For the recent Board recruitments the Nominations aims to maintain full and effective control over Committee engaged Blackwood Recruitment LLP appropriate strategic, financial, operational and who have no connection to the Group.
compliance issues, an internal control framework has been established, against which the Company is able The number of Nominations Committee meetings to assess the effectiveness of its risk management and their attendance by the Directors are set out and internal control systems.
The Groups system in the table on page 42. of internal control is embedded within its routine operations, and a strong control culture is combined Relations with shareholders with clear management responsibility and The Company places great importance on accountabilities for individual control.
The internal communication with its investors and aims control framework provides an on-going process to keep shareholders informed by means of regular for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups communication with institutional shareholders, principal risks, and has been in place for the year analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual and interim reports and trading updates annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly are widely distributed to other parties who may reviewed by the Board, and accords with the have an interest in the Groups performance.
guidance in the document Internal Control: Revised 44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, The main features of the Groups risk management October 2005 Turnbull Guidance published and internal control systems are as follows: by the Financial Reporting Council.
Policies The Executive Directors oversee the key risks core values and policies together comprising and controls and the risk management process the Groups high level principles and controls, on a day-to-day basis, and have put in place an with which all staff are expected to comply: organisational structure with clearly defined lines manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to of responsibility and delegation of authority.
all business units, with procedures for reporting The Groups Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, weaknesses and for monitoring corrective action: which meets monthly, is responsible for maintaining a code of business conduct, with procedures a sound risk management and internal control for reporting compliance therewith: and environment and for assessing the impact of the a defined operational framework and Groups ongoing activities on its regulatory and organisational structure with appropriate operational exposures.
The RCC is chaired by the delegation of authority with accountability that Group Head of Risk Management and Control the has regard to acceptable levels of risk.
other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of IT, Operations Processes and Performance Management, the Group Head a planning framework is maintained, which of Compliance, the Group Head of Information incorporates a Board approved strategic plan, Technology, the Group Head of Legal and Transaction with objectives for each business unit: Management the Group Head of Finance, the Group Head of Distribution and the Group Head of Internal an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and Audit.
Responsibility for risk identification is shared approved by the Board and is regularly subject to amongst these senior management personnel, with update through a formal re-forecasting process: each such individual being responsible for day-to-day regular reviews of the performance of the Company control of risk in their business area.
and its subsidiaries are undertaken by senior management to proactively manage progress There are established policies and procedures to against the delivery of the Groups strategic plan: enable the Board, through its regular meetings, to monitor the effectiveness of the risk management detailed investment reports are prepared and and internal control systems, which cover all discussed at each of the sub-committee meetings significant identified internal and external strategic, of the Groups Investment Committee, which take operational, financial, compliance and other risks, place weekly or monthly depending on investment including the Groups ability to comply with all theme, with follow up actions agreed and applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
implemented within a strict operational framework: oversight of the valuation methodologies used for The Board receives regular financial and other clients fund investments that cannot be readily management information related to the control externally priced is the responsibility of the Groups of expenditure against budget and the making Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee of investments, and for monitoring the Groups PMVC which meets monthly to review the business and its performance, and regular current valuation methodology for each of these compliance and risk reports.
investments and to propose an updated valuation The Board has conducted an annual review and methodology where appropriate: assessment of the effectiveness of the risk quarterly senior management systems and controls management and internal control systems, and reviews are undertaken by the Group Finance has identified no significant failings or weaknesses Director with the Group Head of Compliance, and during this review.
In conducting this review, the the Group Head of Risk Management and Control Board has considered the periodic reports received in which the Chief Executive Officer participates at throughout the year on compliance and risk matters, least annually and which are also coordinated and including reports provided by the internal audit documented by the Group Company Secretary.
function, and the annual report on risk management These reviews include evaluation of the potential and internal control processes from the RCC.
The impact and likelihood of identified risks and Board is satisfied that appropriate planned actions possible new risk areas: continue to be effective in improving controls as the Group develops, and its overall assessment of the control framework continues to be satisfactory.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Corporate Governance continued a matrix of top risks identifies key business, regulation, which includes real-time investment operational, financial and compliance risks, and restrictions monitoring of client mandate considers the likelihood of those risks crystallising requirements.
Results of the compliance and the resultant impact.
The inherent risk within monitoring programme are reported to the RCC in each business activity has been identified, with support of the overall risk management framework: the adequacy and mitigating effect of existing the development of new products is an important processes being assessed to determine a current part of the Groups business in responding to residual risk level for each such activity.
On the clients needs and changes in the financial markets basis that further mitigants may be employed over and is the responsibility of the Products Committee time, a target residual risk for each activity after which approves new product launches: one to two years has been defined and progress a Global Investment Performance Standards GIPS to target is formally tracked: Committee which acts as the primary decision key risk indicator KRI statistics are reported to and making body within the Group in relation to any analysed by the RCC.
The KRIs indicate trends in the changes to the existing set of composites, and Groups risk profile, assist in the reduction of errors approving the creation of new composites.
and potential financial losses and seek to prevent exposure by proactively dealing with a potential risk Verification situation before an event actually occurs: the external auditors are engaged to express an strong financial controls are maintained to ensure opinion on the annual financial statements, the half accurate accounting for transactions, appropriate year review and also independently and objectively authorisation limits to contain exposures, and review the approach of management to reporting reliability of data processing and integrity of operating results and financial condition: information generated: the Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, Board members receive monthly management receives half-yearly updates from the Groups information including accounts and other external auditor which include any control matters relevant reports, which highlight actual financial that have come to their attention: performance against budget forecast and prior annual control reports are reviewed independently year period: by the Groups external auditor pursuant to the there are well-defined procedures governing the International Standards on Assurance appraisal and approval of corporate investments, Engagements 3402 ISAE 3402 : including seeding of funds and purchase of own the internal audit function undertakes a shares, with detailed investment and divestment programme of reviews of systems, processes and approval procedures, incorporating appropriate procedures as determined by the Audit and Risk levels of authority within a framework of set limits, Committee, reporting the results together with and regular post-investment reviews: their advice and recommendations, and assisting oversight and management of the Groups foreign in the presentation of their findings to the currency cash flows and balance sheet exposures Committee.
The internal audit function has been, are the responsibility of the FX Management until July 2013, provided under an outsourcing Committee which determines the appropriate arrangement by Ernst & Young but since that date level of hedging required and appropriate has been internally resourced by the Company.
accounting treatment: Ashmore has non-majority interests in three joint the Group has secure information and ventures associates which operate risk management communication systems capable of capturing and internal control systems that are not dealt with relevant and up to date information by relevant as part of the Group for the purposes of this personnel, with oversight and direction provided statement.
These are: by the Groups IT Steering Group, which Ashmore CCSC Fund Management Company implements the IT strategy, establishing and Limited overseeing the operation of all IT projects: Everbright Ashmore Hong Kong Limited the Group Compliance function, whose VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited responsibility is to ensure that the Group at all times meets its regulatory obligations, and to By order of the Board: integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices within the Group, undertakes an Michael Perman on-going compliance monitoring programme Company Secretary covering all the relevant areas of the Groups operations, to seek to identify any breach of 9 September 2013 compliance with applicable financial services 46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
