68 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors and Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Balance of executive and non-executive directors This Report sets out the role and activities of the Board and explains how the Group is governed.
1 Chairman The UK Corporate Governance Code 2 Executive directors As a UK premium listed company, Aviva seeks to comply with 8 Non-executive directors the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code.
Further details of how the Company has applied the Code principles, and complied with its provisions, are set out in this Report and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant throughout the accounting period with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Gender split of directors The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the 9 Male Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls 2 Female which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board believes that a strong system of governance throughout the Group is essential to help the business run smoothly and to aid effective decision making and support the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for promoting the long-term success of the Company and, in particular, for setting the Groups strategic aims, monitoring managements performance against those strategic aims, setting the Groups risk appetite and ensuring the Group is adequately resourced and that effective controls are in place.
The Board also sets the values, and supports the culture, of the Group.
Length of tenure of non-executive directors The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in its terms of reference which address a wide range of corporate 6 0-3 years governance issues and list those items that are specifically 1 3-6 years reserved for decision by the Board.
Matters requiring Board 1 6-9 years approval include: 0 9 years Group strategy and business plans Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy Group risk appetite and framework Remuneration policy Significant transactions and expenditure Corporate governance issues e. g. appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary and Chief Risk and Capital Officer CRCO, Board and committee succession planning Nationalities of board members and the constitution of Board committees The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters that 6 UK must be reported to the Board, such as senior leadership 2 US changes, significant litigation or material regulatory breaches, 3 Australasian and explain how matters requiring consideration by the Board that arise between scheduled meetings should be dealt with.
The directors As at the date of this Report the Board comprises the Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and eight Independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
The following charts show the balance of the Board between executive and non-executive representation, length of The Boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive tenure and the diversity of the Board in terms of gender and directors, who can apply their wider business knowledge and nationality.
experiences to their oversight of the Group, and to review and refresh regularly the skills on the Board.
In line with Code requirements regarding the independence of NEDs, Russell Walls and Richard Goeltz retired from the Board on 8 May 2013 having completed nine years service.
The Report of the Nomination Committee sets out the work carried out during the year on succession planning which culminated in the appointment of Michael Mire and Patricia Cross as NEDs in Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 69 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 September and December 2013 respectively.
Committee membership is also regularly refreshed and a number of Allocation of Board agenda time changes have recently been implemented.
NEDs need to be able to present objective, rigorous and 6% Succession planning, Board composition constructive challenge to management, drawing on their wider and effectiveness experiences to question assumptions and viewpoints and where 25% Group strategy, business plans and performance monitoring necessary defend a given position.
The NEDs should also assist 19% Financial reporting and controls, capital structure and dividend policy management in the development of the Companys strategy.
To 12% Corporate governance be effective, a NED needs to acquire a sound understanding of 8% Group risk management policies, risk appetite the industry and the Company so as to be able to evaluate and framework 14% Transactions properly the information provided.
All of the current directors 16% Other were subject to a formal performance evaluation.
The Board, having considered the matter carefully, is of the opinion that all of the current NEDs are independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect, or appear to The Board monitored the performance of the Group and its affect, their independent judgement.
Scott Wheway, who has compliance with the governance framework described below served on the Board for six years, was subject to a particularly through regular: rigorous review of his independence.
Accordingly, over half of Group CEO reports, which included updates on the the Board members, excluding the Chairman, are independent implementation of the revised strategy and the new theses: NEDs.
Biographical details including a summary of the skills and updates on ongoing corporate transactions and disposals: experience the directors bring to the Board are set out in the reports on financial performance: changes in senior Strategic report.
management: regulatory developments: and the control Each NED must be able to devote sufficient time to the role environment in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
On CFO reports, which included the financial results and average, the NEDs spend at least 41 days a year on Company forecasts: reports on operational performance: competitor business, with the chairmen of the Audit, Risk, Governance and results: the Groups operational plan: treasury activities: and Remuneration Committees spending substantially more.
The progress against Solvency II Chairman has recently been appointed as Chairman of Reports from the CRCO on the Groups capital and liquidity FirstGroup plc.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the time position: regulatory issues: risk appetite: and compliance commitment required for the role and had no objection to the with business standards and controls Chairman taking up this appointment.
Reports and recommendations from each Board committee The Chairman and Group CEO Presentations from business units and functions Role profiles are in place for the Chairman, John McFarlane and the Group CEO, Mark Wilson, which clearly set out the duties of As part of its annual work plan, the Board reviewed and each role.
The Chairmans priority is leadership of the Board and approved all financial results announcements, the Annual report ensuring its effectiveness: the Group CEOs priority is the and accounts, the operational plan and dividend payments, all management of the Group.
The Board has delegated the daychanges to the composition of the Board and its committees, to-day running of the Group to the Group CEO within certain and received regular updates on progress against the strategy limits, above which, matters must be escalated to the Board for and the transformation programme.
In addition, the Board undertook the following specific activities during the year: Senior Independent Director Approved the disposal of the Groups remaining holding in Sir Adrian Montague became the Senior Independent Director Delta Lloyd N. V. on 8 May 2013 when Richard Goeltz retired from the Board.
Approved a proposal to reduce the complexity of the The role of a senior independent director is to provide a Groups corporate structure to give a greater degree of sounding board for the Chairman, to serve as an intermediary direct control over subsidiaries for the other directors where necessary and to be available to Agreed a new strategy and the four strategic theses shareholders should they have concerns that they have been Agreed a new set of values and behaviours to support a unable to resolve through normal channels, or when such culture that will enable the Group to achieve the strategy channels would be inappropriate.
During the year, the NEDs, Approved an early repayment of 300 million of the intraled by Richard Goeltz and then Sir Adrian Montague, have met Group loan to reduce internal debt several times without the Chairman present and Sir Adrian Approved the final terms of the disposal of the US Life Montague led the review of the Chairmans performance during business the year.
Approved a new, sustainable dividend policy Approved the entering into of negotiations with Pt Astra Board activities during 2013 International Tbk to set up a joint venture life insurance The work of the Board follows an agreed annual work plan and company in Indonesia principally falls under six main areas.
The following chart shows how the Board allocated its time during 2013.
The Board held one meeting in Canada during the year to gain a deeper understanding of the operations of the Canadian business.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in order to assess how well the Board, its committees, the directors and the Chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Groups overall performance.
For the 2013 evaluation an 70 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 external review was facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation Board attendance 2013 and supported by internal questionnaires to the Board Number of Percentage 1 Director meetings attended attendance committees.
The results were discussed by the Board and each Glyn Barker 11 100% of the committees and actions agreed.
Overall the Board was 3 Patricia Cross 1 100% found to function well with a collaborative and professional 4 Richard Karl Goeltz 5 100% atmosphere around the board table.
Areas for greater Board Michael Hawker 11 100% 2 Gay Huey Evans 9 82% focus in 2014 included making more time on the Board agendas 2 John McFarlane 10 91% for the evolving business strategy: adding diversity to the Board: Trevor Matthews 4 80% 5 and further developing the induction process for new directors.
Michael Mire 4 100% 6 Sir Adrian Montague 11 100% The focus for the Board committees in 2014 are detailed in each Patrick Regan 11 100% committees report.
7 Bob Stein 11 100% 4 Independent Board Evaluation have no other connection Russell Walls 5 100% 2 with the Company.
Scott Wheway 10 91% 2 Mark Wilson 10 91% The review of the performance of the Chairman, led by the 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the director attended during the year whilst a member of the Senior Independent Director, concluded that the Chairman is an Board.
2 The director was unable to attend Board meeting s due to prior commitments, the meetings being called at inclusive leader, welcoming contributions from all Board short notice or where a conflict of interest prevented the director from taking part in the meeting.
members and works well with the Group CEO.
He has built a 3 Patricia Cross was appointed on 1 December 2013.
4 Russell Walls and Richard Karl Goeltz retired on 8 May 2013. cohesive Board and continues to make a valuable contribution 5 Michael Mire was appointed on 12 September 2013. to Board discussions.
6 Sir Adrian Montague was appointed on 14 January 2013.
7 Bob Stein was appointed on 28 January 2013.
The Chairman and Independent Board Evaluation assessed the performance of the NEDs and the executive directors in their During 2013, there were 11 Board meetings held, of which, capacity as directors.
The Chairman concluded that each eight were scheduled Board meetings and three were additional director contributes effectively and demonstrates full Board meetings called at short notice.
In addition the Board commitment to his her duties.
To assess the Group CEO in delegated responsibility for certain items, such as giving final respect of his executive duties a separate process was carried approval to proposals broadly agreed by the full Board, to out by the Chairman and in respect of the CFO, by the Group specially created committees of the Board which met seven CEO.
The process involved measuring performance against each times during 2013. executive directors role objectives.
The Chairman and the NEDs met several times in the absence of the executive directors and the NEDs met in the Induction, training and development absence of the Chairman, including one meeting chaired by the The Board and the Chairman believe strongly in the Senior Independent Director to appraise the Chairmans development of all of its employees and directors and it is a performance.
requirement of each directors appointment that they commit to continuing their development.
Conflicts of interest During the year, directors attended a number of internal In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of training sessions, including sessions on economic capital, the association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of Own Risk Solvency Assessment and stress and scenario testing.
interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions Training sessions have been built into the Boards and as it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can committees work plans for 2014. only be made by non-conflicted directors those who have no The Chairman ensures that all new directors receive a interest in the matter being considered and in making such a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their particular decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good needs and which consists of several separate training sessions faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
These include presentations from key The Boards procedure to regularly review and approve actual members of senior management, visits to the Groups main and potential conflicts of interest as they arise, and prior to operating businesses and functions, and meetings with the the appointment of new directors, operated effectively during external auditor and one of the Companys corporate brokers.
Further or follow-up meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper understanding on a particular issue.
All new Governance structure directors also receive induction materials, which include the The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success current strategic and operational plan, recent Board and of the Company for the benefit of shareholders.
This includes committee minutes and meeting packs, organisation structure ensuring that an appropriate system of governance is in place charts, role profiles, a history of the Group, and relevant throughout the Group.
To discharge this responsibility, the policies, procedures and governance material.
Board has established frameworks for risk management and Directors attendance internal control using a three lines of defence model and reserves to itself the setting of the Groups risk appetite.
The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote In-depth monitoring of the establishment and operation of prudent and effective controls in order to assess and manage sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
The attendance of the directors at the Board meetings held in risks associated with the Groups operations is delegated to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Governance 2013 is shown in the following table and the attendance at committee meetings is shown in the committee reports.
Committee which report regularly to the Board.
However, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and their effectiveness.
These frameworks play a key role in the management of risks that may impact the fulfillment of the Boards objectives.
They are designed to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or losses.
These frameworks are regularly Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 71 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 reviewed and comply with the Financial Reporting Councils business unit Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
Officers and compliance with the FRCF is reported to the Disclosure Committee and the Audit Committee.
Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework RMF is designed to identify, Second line measure, manage, monitor and report the significant risks to The Risk function is accountable for the quantitative and the achievement of the Groups business objectives and is qualitative oversight and challenge of the identification, embedded throughout the Group.
The RMF has been in place measurement, monitoring and reporting of significant risks and for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the for developing the RMF.
It is codified through risk policies As the business responds to changing market conditions and and business standards which set out the risk strategy, appetite, customer needs, the Risk function regularly monitors the framework and minimum requirements for the Groups appropriateness of the Companys risk policies and the RMF to worldwide operations.
Further details on procedures for the ensure they remain up to date.
This helps to provide assurance management of risks are given in note 58. to the various risk oversight committees that there are appropriate controls in place for all core business activities, and Internal controls that the processes for managing risk are understood and followed Internal controls facilitate effective and efficient business consistently across the Group.
operations, the development of robust and reliable internal To assist with the execution of his duties the CRCO has reporting and compliance with laws and regulations.
established the Operational Risk and Reputation Committee A Group Reporting Manual including International Financial ORRC which oversees operational risks and reputational Reporting Standards IFRS requirements and a Financial impacts arising from activities across the Group.
It oversees the Reporting Control Framework FRCF are in place across the operational risk elements of the implementation and Group.
FRCF relates to the preparation of reliable financial maintenance of the risk policies and business standards, the reporting and preparation of local and consolidated financial Groups adherence to the Operational Risk Policy, and the statements in accordance with IFRS and with the requirements adequacy and implementation of the RMF throughout the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The FRCF process follows Group.
a risk-based approach, with management identification, assessment documentation and testing, remediation as Third line required, reporting and certification over key financial The Internal Audit function provides independent and reporting-related controls.
Management regularly undertakes objective assessment on the robustness of the RMF and the quality assurance procedures over the application of the FRCF appropriateness and effectiveness of internal control to the process and FRCF controls.
Audit, Governance and Risk Committees, business unit audit The Board has delegated to the Group CEO the day-to-day committees and the Board.
Further information on the activities management of the Company and approval of specific issues up of the Internal Audit function is contained within the Audit to set financial limits, including limits on revenue and capital Committee Report.
expenditure, reinsurance spend and the settlement of claims.
In Board oversight turn the Group CEO has delegated some of his authority to his The Risk Committee assists the Board in its oversight of risk and direct reports.
There is a similar delegated authority framework risk management across the Group and makes in place throughout the Group.
recommendations on risk appetite to the Board.
The First line responsibilities and activities of the Risk Committee are set out Management are responsible for the application of the RMF, for in the Risk Committee Report.
implementing and monitoring the operation of the system of The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk internal control and for providing assurance to the Audit Committee, is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging Committee, the Risk Committee, the Governance Committee its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial and the Board.
statements, the effectiveness of the system of internal financial The Group Executive members and each business unit Chief controls and for monitoring the effectiveness, performance and Executive Officer are responsible for the implementation of objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Group strategies, plans and policies, the monitoring of responsibilities and activities of the Audit Committee are set out operational and financial performance, the assessment and in the Audit Committee Report.
control of financial, business and operational risks and the The Governance Committee also works closely with the Risk maintenance and ongoing development of a robust control Committee and is responsible for assisting the Board in its framework and environment in their areas of responsibility.
oversight of operational risk across the Group, particularly in The CFO has established the Asset Liability Committee respect of behavior and the Groups relationship with customers.
ALCO which assists him in discharging his responsibilities in The Audit, Governance and Risk Committees report regularly relation to management of the Groups balance sheet within to the Board on their activities and make recommendations and risk appetite and to provide financial risk management escalate significant risk exposures to the Board as appropriate.
This includes recommending financial and insurance They ensure that mitigating actions are taken when risks are, or risk appetites and limit frameworks, evaluating the asset and are expected to move, out of appetite.
liability impact of strategies and business plans, financial risk The chart overleaf shows the Board and committee structure oversight, monitoring and management of the Groups capital that oversees the Companys frameworks for risk management and liquidity position, transaction risk oversight, stress and and internal control.
scenario testing, and identification of emerging financial risks.
The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the CFO and reports to the Audit Committee.
It oversees the design and effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls, for both financial and non-financial information, evaluates the Groups disclosure controls and reviews and endorses the Groups key periodic external reports, including the consolidated financial statements.
The results of the FRCF process are signed off by 72 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 regularly shared with the Board through the Group CEO and Aviva plc Board CFOs reports and the Companys corporate brokers also periodically brief the Board on investor views.
During the year, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director met with the Companys major institutional investors.
Board Audit Risk Remuneration Nomination Governance In addition, the Senior Independent Director was available to Committees Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee meet with major investors to discuss any areas of concern that could not be resolved through normal channels of investor Management Disclosure Asset Liability Operational Risk communication.
In 2013 the Board, through the then Committees Committee Committee & Reputation Remuneration Committee chairman, consulted with institutional ALCO Committee ORRC investors on executive remuneration, particularly on the proposed remuneration policy being put to shareholders for Further details on procedures for the management of risk approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM.
operated by the Group are given in note 58.
The AGM also provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with private shareholders.
All serving directors Effectiveness of controls attended the 2013 AGM except Bob Stein, who had a prior To support an assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups commitment on the date that arose before he joined the Board.
governance, internal control and risk management There is a dedicated email address which shareholders can use requirements, the Chief Executive Officer of each business unit to ask questions on the business of the AGM at is required to certify that: aviva.
The dedicated email address is There are sound risk management and internal control included in the shareholder information section of the Notice of systems that are effective and fit for purpose in place across AGM.
A presentation on the Groups performance is given at the business the AGM and is made available on the Companys website after Material existing or emerging risks within the business have the meeting at www.
Whenever possible, all been identified and assessed and the business operates in directors attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask a manner which conforms to the minimum requirements questions related to the business of the meeting at the AGM outlined in Group risk policies and business standards and have an opportunity to meet with the directors following the conclusion of the meeting.
The Chief Risk Officer of each business unit must certify that: The Risk function has reviewed and challenged the process supporting the business unit Chief Executive Officers certification, and is satisfied that it can provide reasonable assurance of the material accuracy and completeness of the business unit Chief Executive Officers assessment No material gaps exist in the RMF, as it applies to the business unit Any material risks not previously identified, control weaknesses or non-compliance with the Groups risk policies and business standards or local delegations of authority, must be highlighted as part of this process.
This is then supplemented by investigations carried out at Group level and ultimately a Group CEO and CRCO certification for Aviva plc.
The effectiveness assessment also draws on the regular cycle of assurance activity carried out during the year.
The results of the certification process and details of any significant failings or weaknesses are reported to the Audit Committee and the Board annually to enable them to carry out an effectiveness assessment.
The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, last carried out a full review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management in March 2014, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and the RMF and processes.
The necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings and weaknesses identified from these reviews.
Communication with shareholders The Company places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of issues.
The directors have an ongoing dialogue and a programme of meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts which are managed by the Companys investor relations function.
At these meetings a wide range of issues are discussed including strategy, financial performance, management, remuneration and governance, within the constraints of information already made public, to understand any issues of concern to investors.
Shareholders views are Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 73 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Committee activities during 2013 Nomination Committee report During 2013 the committee was principally focused on the recruitment of new non-executive directors as part of the Committee role and responsibilities continual cycle to refresh the Board and maintain an The Board strongly believes that good governance and strong, appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
These responsible, balanced leadership by the Board are critical to issues are discussed in detail below.
The chart below shows how creating long-term shareholder value and business success.
the committee allocated its time during 2013.
The committee assists the Board by regularly reviewing the composition of the Board and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when recommending or renewing the Nomination Committee allocation of agenda time appointment of directors to the Board.
The key responsibilities of the committee are to: Evaluate and review the structure, size and composition of 64% Board composition and succession planning the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge, 7% Independence and conflicts of interest experience and diversity of the Board, taking into account 29% Others including corporate governance the Companys risk appetite and strategy Monitor succession plans for the appointment of nonexecutive directors, the Group CEO and other executive directors to the Board Identify and nominate suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, including chairmanship of the Board and its committees, and appointment of the Senior Independent Director, against a specification of the role and capabilities required for the position, including relevant financial Non-executive director search experience for Audit Committee members The committee continued the process to refresh the Board and Assess the independence of each of the NEDs engaged The Zygos Partnership and Egon Zehnder to identify Assess directors conflicts of interest as they arise and review suitable candidates.
Comprehensive candidate Review the external interests and time commitments of the search briefs were prepared and approved by the committee directors to ensure that each has sufficient time to and shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Chairman, undertake his her duties to the Company the Senior Independent Director and two NEDs.
All the NEDs Approve a report on the committees activities for inclusion had the opportunity to meet with the preferred candidates in the Companys Annual report and accounts before their appointment.
Following regulatory approval, the Board accepted the committees recommendations and The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on appointed Michael Mire and Patricia Cross as NEDs with effect the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference from 12 September and 1 December 2013 respectively.
The and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
committee considered the cross-directorships of Patricia Cross and Michael Hawker in Macquarie Group Ltd and Macquarie Committee membership and attendance Bank Ltd and was satisfied that this did not compromise their The committee comprises the Chairman and all the Companys independence.
The table below shows the committee members during The Group uses The Zygos Partnership to identify suitable the year and their attendance at committee meetings: non-executive director candidates for Group subsidiary companies and Egon Zehnder for senior executive recruitment.
Membership and attendance Diversity Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance The committee strongly believes that diversity throughout the 2 John McFarlane Chairman 4 80% Group and at Board and senior management level is a driver of Glyn Barker 5 100% 3 business success.
Diversity brings a broader, more rounded Patricia Cross 1 100% 4 Richard Karl Goeltz 2 100% perspective to decision-making and risk management, making Michael Hawker 5 100% the Board and senior management more effective.
During the 2 Gay Huey Evans 4 80% 5 year, candidate searches were conducted and Board Michael Mire 2 100% 6 Sir Adrian Montague 4 100% appointments were made, on merit, against the criteria 6 Bob Stein 4 100% identified by the committee, having regard to the benefits of 4 Russell Walls 2 100% diversity on the Board, including gender.
The committee and the Scott Wheway 5 100% Board believe that diversity also includes criteria such as 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the committee member attended during the year whilst a member of the committee.
nationality, race, age and experience of different businesses.
2 John McFarlane did not attend a meeting where his external appointment to FirstGroup plc was the only With the appointment of Patricia Cross there is now 18% agenda item.
Gay Huey Evans could not attend an ad hoc meeting called at short notice due to a prior commitment.
female representation on the Board.
The Board remains 3 Patricia Cross joined the committee on 1 December 2013.
4 Richard Karl Goeltz and Russell Walls retired from the committee on 8 May 2013. committed to achieving a minimum of 25% female 5 Michael Mire joined the committee on 12 September 2013. representation on the Board as soon as possible.
Recruitment 6 Sir Adrian Montague and Bob Stein joined the committee on 6 March 2013. of a further NED is therefore ongoing and we aim to meet this target during 2014, which will be ahead of Lord Davies target The committee met on five occasions in 2013, of which two of 25% by 2015.
At the date of this Report, 21% 2012: 29% were additional meetings called at short notice due to new of Group Executive members and 21% 2012: 21% of senior Board appointments during the year.
The Group Company executives in the Company were female.
It is the Companys Secretary acts as the secretary to the committee.
Members of intention to increase this number as it is recognised that a the committee took no part in any discussions concerning their greater number of women in senior management will create a own circumstances.
The chairman of the committee reported to stronger talent pipeline and is better for business.
There is also subsequent meetings of the Board on the committees work a policy to encourage senior executives to take up one nonand the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes executive position at other organisations and Amanda of each meeting of the committee.
74 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Mackenzie, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, is a Audit Committee report Non-Executive Director of Mothercare Plc.
Committee role and responsibilities Other activities The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board in During the year the committee reviewed the composition of the discharging its responsibilities for monitoring the integrity of the Boards committees and recommended changes to the Board Groups financial statements, assessing the effectiveness of the for approval.
In addition the committee made the Groups system of internal controls and monitoring the recommendation to appoint Sir Adrian Montague as the Senior effectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity of the Independent Director following the retirement of Richard Goeltz internal and external auditors.
Whilst the Board as a whole has a from the Board.
The committee was involved in the process to duty to act in the best interests of the Company, the committee recruit a new Chief Executive Officer for Aviva Investors which has a particular role, acting independently of management, to resulted in the appointment of Euan Munro who joined in ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected January 2014.
Several committee members met Christine in relation to financial reporting and the effectiveness of the Deputy prior to her appointment as Group HR Director and the Groups systems of financial internal controls.
The key committee discussed potential candidates to succeed the Chief responsibilities of the committee are to: Executive Officer of Aviva Canada and provided advice on Review the significant issues and judgements of executive succession matters to the Group CEO.
management, and the methodology and assumptions used The committee reviewed and agreed to John McFarlanes in relation to the Groups financial statements, and formal appointment as Chairman of FirstGroup plc, taking into account announcements on the Groups financial performance, the time commitment involved.
The committee also reviewed including the reserving position relating to the Groups life the independence of each NED, all directors conflicts of interest assurance and general insurance operations and the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Review the Groups going concern assumptions on the Board prior to recommending the directors election or Assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal re-election at the AGM.
Following consideration of these issues controls, including financial reporting, financial controls and the committee recommended each director standing for the Internal Audit function election or re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Following Patrick Consider and review the performance of the Chief Audit Regans resignation in January 2014, the committee appointed Officer CAO, and agree with management his effectiveness Spencer Stuart to search for suitable CFO candidates.
Spencer and his remuneration Stuart also carries out other executive search activities for Consider and make recommendations to the Board on the the Group.
appointment, reappointment, dismissal or resignation, effectiveness and remuneration of the external auditor Committee performance and effectiveness Assess the independence and objectivity of the external The Board undertook an annual review of the committees auditor performance and effectiveness as part of the Board effectiveness review and the results of the review will be Revised terms of reference for the committee were adopted in incorporated into the committees processes and activities December 2013 following an annual refresh.
The full terms of for 2014. reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference and are also available from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee membership and attendance The committee comprises independent NEDs only.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the committee.
The table below shows the committee members during the year and their attendance at committee meetings: Membership and attendance Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance 2 Russell Walls Chairman 6 100% 3 Glyn Barker Chairman 13 100% 4 Patricia Cross 1 100% 5 Richard Karl Goeltz 6 100% 6 Sir Adrian Montague 9 90% Michael Hawker 13 100% 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the committee member attended during the year whilst a member of the committee.
2 Russell Walls chaired the committee until 8 May 2013 when he retired from the Board.
3 Glyn Barker became chairman of the committee on 8 May 2013.
4 Patricia Cross joined the committee on 1 December 2013.
5 Richard Karl Goeltz retired from the Board on 8 May 2013.
6 Sir Adrian Montague joined the committee on 6 March 2013 and was unable to attend one meeting which was called at short notice.
The committee met on 13 occasions in 2013, of which three meetings were called at short notice.
During the year the committee members attended meetings of business unit audit committees in UK Life, Ireland Life, Ireland Health, Aviva Investors, Canada, France and Italy.
The Chairman, Group CEO, CFO, CAO and the external auditor normally attended committee meetings.
Other members of senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
During the year the committee Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 75 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 regularly held private sessions to discuss issues to be raised with management in the main meeting, and met separately with Audit Committee allocation of agenda time senior management, and with the CAO and the external auditor without management present.
The committee chairman held 15% Financial reporting regular meetings with management, the CAO and with the 15% External audit, auditor engagement and policy external audit partner to ensure he and the committee were 20% Internal audit aware of issues that needed to be raised at the committee.
20% Control improvements The chairman of the committee reported to subsequent 20% Financial reporting control framework and financial reporting developments meetings of the Board on the committees work and the Board 10% Others including governance, tax, treasury and dividends received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the committee.
In performing its duties, the committee had access to the services of the CAO, the Group Company Secretary, senior financial management and external professional advisers.
The committee considered a number of significant issues in Committee expertise relation to the financial statements including judgements, Glyn Barker is a chartered accountant and has held a number of methodology and assumptions which are described below.
senior positions at  LLP PwC where, most recently, he was UK-Vice Chairman.
Michael Hawker, a Commercial mortgages senior fellow of the Financial Services Institute of Australasia, is In the Half Year 2013 results the Company announced a net a former Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of increase in the credit default allowance on the commercial Insurance Australia Group.
Patricia Cross has held a number of mortgage portfolio by 300 million to 1.5 billion.
This resulted senior executive roles at National Australia Bank, Chase from recognition of the risk of default on the riskier mortgages Manhattan Bank and Banque Nationale fide Paris in addition to in the portfolio.
The committee called an ad hoc meeting non-executive roles at a number of financial services companies specifically to discuss this issue in July 2013 and challenged and has held honorary roles on the Australian Financial Centre management on whether the proposed reserve increase was Forum and Financial Sector Advisory Council.
The committee was satisfied with managements Montague was formerly Chairman of Friends Provident plc and review.
The committee agreed the net increase in allowance Deputy Chairman of UK Green Investment Bank plc and has was appropriate based on current facts.
At Full Year 2013 the significant experience in the financial services industry.
total allowances for commercial mortgage defaults was 1.3 The Board is satisfied that Glyn Barker and Michael Hawker billion 2012: 1.2 billion including an implicit investment each have recent and relevant financial experience and that margin of 0.2 billion against the risk of default on our riskier Glyn Barker meets the US requirements to be an audit mortgages.
The value of the commercial mortgage portfolio at committee financial expert.
The allowance was Glyn Barker succeeded Russell Walls as committee chairman reassessed by the committee in February 2014 and the on 8 May 2013.
As former Vice-Chairman of PwC, Glyn Barker committee was satisfied that the allowance remained has a recent connection with the Groups current auditor.
Given the significance of the estimate the However, in the two years prior to his retirement he did not committee will continue to monitor this issue closely.
perform any audit work and had no responsibility for the audit business of PwC and has confirmed that he does not have any Insurance liabilities significant ongoing financial connection with the firm.
As he The committee reviewed the key assumptions used in retired from PwC before PwC was appointed as the Companys calculating long-term business contract liabilities, including the auditor and, as he complies with the rules of the US Securities annuitant mortality assumptions and the credit default and Exchange Commission and the Auditing Practices Boards allowance on the corporate bond portfolio adopted by the UK Ethical Standards on auditor independence, the committee is Life business.
The committee was satisfied with managements satisfied that PwC is independent of the Company.
The Groups general insurance reserves were reviewed Committee activities during 2013 including understanding the key developments, risks and The work of the committee followed an agreed annual work uncertainties and providing appropriate challenge.
The plan and principally fell under four main areas: financial committee was satisfied with managements analysis and statements and accounting policies, internal controls, oversight believes that the methodology and assumptions applied in of the internal audit function and oversight of external audit.
calculating the year end liabilities for that business are The committees work in each of these areas is described below.
The following chart shows how the committee allocated its time Aviva Investors during 2013.
In 2013 we found evidence of improper allocation of trades in fixed income securities in Aviva Investors which occurred Financial statements and accounting policies between 2006 2012 and a thorough investigation was carried In conjunction with members of management and the internal out by Internal Audit.
The committee considered the valuation and external auditors, the committee reviewed the Groups of the provision for potential client compensation arising from financial announcements, the Annual report and accounts and these breaches of the dealing policy.
associated documentation, the half year results and the interim management statements, and the going concern assumptions in Valuation of investments relation to the Annual report and accounts and half year results.
The Committee has reviewed managements judgements on the The committee placed particular emphasis on their fair Groups fair value hierarchy of disclosures.
The Committee presentation and the reasonableness of the judgement factors approved managements proposal to change the classification and appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in level for financial assets, in particular, commercial mortgage their preparation.
assets which have been classified as Level 3.
Further detail is contained in note 23.
76 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 US sale Internal audit The sale of the Aviva USA business completed on 2 October Internal Audit reports to the Board primarily via the Audit 2013 and the transaction proceeds received were based on the Committee and to management on the effectiveness of the estimated earnings and other improvements in statutory surplus Companys system of internal controls and the adequacy of this over the period from 30 June 2012 to 30 September 2013.
The system to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups final purchase price is subject to customary completion assets and resources.
The process to agree completion adjustments is on-going and is expected to complete by mid-2014.
Until the Internal audit charter and business standard outcome of this process is known there remains uncertainty on The charter sets out the purpose, functions, scope and the final determination of the completion adjustment.
The responsibilities of the Internal Audit function and how it committee considers the fair value less costs to sell reflected in maintains independence from the first and second line the 2013 Annual report and accounts to be appropriate.
The three main functions of Internal Audit are to: Other matters Assess and report on the effectiveness of the design and The committee also considered the carrying value of goodwill in operation of the framework of controls which enable risk to the Groups Spanish business and the classification of a number be assessed and managed of businesses as held for sale, including Eurovita, Taiwan, Korea, Investigate and report on cases of suspected financial crime Indonesia and Turkey general insurance as disclosed in note 4. and employee fraud With regard to the Groups accounts on the Market Consistent Undertake advisory projects for management provided that Embedded Value basis, the committee considered and they do not threaten the functions actual or perceived challenged the key assumptions presented by management.
independence from management Internal control The Internal Audit business standard sets out the requirements During the year the committee received quarterly updates on for management across the Group to support Internal Audit in the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting control achieving its objectives.
It requires businesses to design and framework and discussed rectification of any deficiencies in operate processes and controls to satisfy the mandatory controls.
The controls improvement programme at Aviva requirements in the standard based on the size and complexity Investors was monitored closely and made good progress during of the business and the nature of the risks and challenges it the year.
In addition, the committee commissioned PwC to faces.
Any breaches of the standard must be reported to the review how the improper trading in fixed income securities at CAO and others as appropriate.
Aviva Investors was allowed to happen and whether the controls instigated since then are sufficiently robust.
Measures Annual plan and focus of reviews in 2013 to improve controls have been implemented.
Internal Audits 2013 annual plan was reviewed and approved The committee challenged management to improve the by the committee.
Planned reviews reflected the priorities in the quality of the overall control environment across the Group.
Groups 2013-2015 Operational Plan and were prioritised Significant work has been carried out by management to close following a risk-based assessment of the business and a review issues raised by Internal Audit and the Groups risk policies and against the Groups risk policies.
The reviews carried out business standards have been mapped against the Committee covered an extensive sample of controls over all risk types, of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commissions business units and regulated entities and covered business as Enterprise Risk Management Framework COSO framework to usual activities and an assessment of change programmes.
provide a baseline position to assess where further development Reviews included the implementation of corporate decisions: is required.
maintenance of adequate financial strength and resilience: the An Integrated Assurance Framework IAF is also being rolled effectiveness of governance, decision making and risk out across the Group as a mechanism for bringing together all management: treating customers fairly: the availability, security the information on the operation of the control environment and recoverability of IT systems: and the improper allocation of from management, Internal Audit and the Risk function: to trades in fixed income securities at Aviva Investors.
The provide a holistic view of the status and quality of controls and committee received quarterly reports from the CAO on audit identify common themes and expedite action to remediate reviews carried out, managements response to the findings and deficiencies.
progress in addressing identified issues.
The CAO prompted The committee reported to the Board regarding the management to increase focus throughout the year on closing effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management and overdue audit issues and on areas where further improvement internal control systems including the risk management system is still required.
in relation to the financial reporting process.
The committee Effectiveness of the internal audit function worked closely with the Risk Committee in its overall review of The committee commissioned an independent review of the the Companys systems of risk management and internal effectiveness of the Internal Audit function against the controls.
standards published by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
The system of internal controls extends to the Groups Overall, the independent reviewers found that the Internal Audit business units, each of which has an audit committee that function complies with the IIAs standards, code of ethics and provides an oversight role for its business.
Membership of these conduct and is fit for purpose.
The function demonstrates business unit audit committees is largely comprised of nonexpertise in insurance governance, and risk and control.
A executive directors of subsidiary companies.
number of recommendations were made as to how the function The committees terms of reference require it to establish could develop further, including enhancing the use of data and monitor procedures for dealing with complaints from analytics and related IT tools, and developments to the audit employees in relation to accounting issues.
The committee reports such as including managements view of risks and reviews the procedures annually and received regular updates controls.
The Internal Audit function intends to implement all of from the CAO on any significant complaints received.
A the recommendations and the committee will oversee progress.
description of the Companys systems of internal control and the Groups risk management framework is included on pages 70 to 72.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 77 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Chief Audit Officer and work in relation to preparing the business for Solvency II The CAO had direct access to the Board Chairman, the implementation, were 7.6 million 2012: 16.0 million, giving committee chairman and the committee members.
The a total fee to PwC of 24.2 million 2012: 31.8 million.
In committee worked with the Group CEO to determine the addition the Group paid PwC 0.2 million 2012: 0.2 million in CAOs objectives and evaluate his levels of achievement, and relation to the audit of Group occupational pension schemes.
to approve the CAOs remuneration.
His annual performance The Group paid 1.1 million to PwC in relation to other nonrelated bonus was unconnected to the Groups financial audit services in respect of continuing operations.
During the year the CAOs reporting line changed 0.2 million relating to a regulatory advice engagement and 0.9 from the CFO to the Group CEO.
million for a number of other, individually smaller services.
In line Whilst he is a member of the Group Executive, the with the external auditor business standard, the committee committee is satisfied that the CAOs independence has been satisfied itself that for these engagements, robust controls maintained as adequate safeguards are in place to maintain the including appropriate levels of review were in place to ensure independence, authority and standing of the CAO and the that PwCs objectivity and independence was safeguarded, and Internal Audit function.
The committee remained satisfied that concluded that it was in the interests of the Company to purchase the Internal Audit function had sufficient resources during the these services from PwC due to their specific expertise.
Further year to undertake its duties.
details are provided in note 13.
External auditor Committee performance and effectiveness PwC was appointed as the Groups auditor in 2012 following The committee undertook an annual review of its performance a formal tender process.
The external audit contract will be put and effectiveness which concluded that overall the committee out to tender at least once every ten years.
was effective in carrying out its duties.
The committee agreed During the year, the committee performed its annual review that its priorities for 2014 should include: monitoring of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the implementation of compliance with the requirements of being external auditor, assessing the audit firm, audit partner and classified as a Global Systemically Important Insurer: continuing audit teams.
The process was conducted by means of a to monitor improvements in the control environment: greater questionnaire, completed Group-wide by members of senior oversight of management actions to reduce operational risk: management and members of the Groups finance community and increasing the level of reporting from business unit audit and the committee.
The questionnaire sought opinions on the committees.
importance of certain criteria and the performance of the external auditor against those criteria.
Based on this review, the committee concluded that the audit service of PwC was fit for purpose.
The Company has an external auditor business standard in place which is aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The standard is in full compliance with all UK, US and International Federation of Accountants IFAC rules and takes into account the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The standard regulates the appointment of former audit employees to senior finance positions in the Group and sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using the nonaudit services of the principal external auditor.
It distinguishes between i those services where an independent view is required and services that should be performed by the external auditor such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work : ii prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and must not be used: and iii other non-audit services where the external auditor may be used.
Non-audit services where the external auditor may be used include: non-recurring internal controls such as the work commissioned in relation to Aviva Investors and risk management reviews excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on financial reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
During the year the committee received quarterly reports of compliance against the standard.
The Group paid 16.6 million to PwC for audit and auditrelated assurance services in 2013, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements, the audit of Group subsidiaries, additional fees relating to the prior year audit of Group subsidiaries and audit-related assurance services 2012: 15.8 million.
The fees for other services, which are in compliance with applicable UK, US and International Federation of Accountants independence rules, included Market Consistent Embedded Value supplementary reporting, advice on accounting, risk and regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, reporting on the Groups Individual Capital Assessment and Economic Capital 78 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Committee membership and attendance Risk Committee report The committee comprises independent NEDs only.
The table below shows the committee members during the year and their Committee role and responsibilities attendance at committee meetings.
The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of risk within the Group through reviewing the Membership and attendance Groups risk appetite and risk profile in relation to capital and Number of meetings liquidity, the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance Framework RMF, the methodology and assumptions used in Michael Hawker Chairman 7 100% determining the Groups capital requirements, and the Glyn Barker 7 100% 2 Michael Mire 2 100% monitoring of prudential regulatory requirements.
The 3 Bob Stein 4 100% committee also works with the Remuneration Committee to 4 Russell Walls 4 100% ensure that risk management is properly considered in setting 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the committee member attended during the year whilst a the Groups remuneration policy.
During the year the committee member of the committee.
2 Michael Mire joined the committee on 12 September 2013. oversaw all aspects of risk management in the Group, including 3 Bob Stein joined the committee on 6 March 2013.
4 Russell Walls retired from the committee on 8 May 2013. market, credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risk including franchise risk, and their impact on both the financial The committee met on seven occasions in 2013.
The Chairman and non-financial goals of the Company.
In late 2013, oversight of the Company, Group CEO, CRCO, CFO and the CAO of franchise risk was transferred to the Governance Committee.
normally attended all committee meetings.
Other members of senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate The key responsibilities of the committee are to: to present reports.
The committee has held regular private Review the Groups future risk strategy and its risk appetite, sessions with the CRCO and the CAO to enable them to raise particularly in relation to capital and liquidity and to make any matters of concern to them without any other members of recommendations on risk appetite to the Board management present.
The Group Company Secretary acted as Review and challenge the Groups forward-looking risk the secretary to the committee.
profile against its risk strategy and capital and liquidity risk The chairman of the committee reported to subsequent appetite and review the drivers of changes, if any, in the meetings of the Board on the committees work and the Board Groups risk profile received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting Review and challenge proposed management actions if the of the committee.
The committee chairman also sat on the Groups capital or liquidity risk position against appetite Audit Committee throughout the year and the Remuneration reaches the level at which it needs to be escalated to Committee until 8 May 2013 to ensure that risk considerations the committee were fully reflected in the decisions of those committees.
Bob Review the design, completeness and effectiveness of the Stein is currently a member of both the Risk Committee and the RMF relative to the Groups activities Remuneration Committee, Glyn Barker is a member of the Risk Assess the adequacy and quality of the risk management Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Michael function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within Mire is a member of the Risk Committee and the Governance the Group Committee which ensures the committee is linked to the work Review the Groups investment risk strategy, credit limit of the other Board committees.
framework and approve individual counterparty exposures In performing its duties, the committee had access to the in excess of limits services of the CRCO, CAO, the Group Company Secretary and Review the governance, methodology and assumptions used external professional advisers.
in the Groups models for determining its economic and The chairman followed a programme of attending meetings regulatory capital requirements of business unit risk committees and, during the year, members Review and approve risk policies of the committee attended meetings in the UK Life, Ireland Life Satisfy itself that risks to the Groups business plan and any and Healthcare, Canadian, French and Italian business units.
capital implications are adequately identified and assessed In November 2013, the committee chairman hosted a by management and that appropriate mitigating actions are two-day conference for the chairmen of the risk and audit in place committees of the Groups principal subsidiaries and their Chief Ensure that a due diligence appraisal of strategic or Risk Officers.
The agenda included discussions on what it means significant transactions due to be proposed to the Board is to be a Global Systemically Important Insurer GSII : Solvency II: undertaken before the Board takes a decision whether to raising the bar on internal controls and moving to integrated proceed assurance: key operational risks and managements response to Review the effectiveness of operational controls them: cyber crime: conduct risk: and what makes an effective Work with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that risk audit or risk committee.
is considered in setting the overall remuneration policy for The committee chairman, with the CRCO, holds a series of the Group semi-annual conference calls with the major subsidiary board Review relationships with prudential regulatory authorities risk committee chairmen and their Chief Risk Officers, to ensure in relevant jurisdictions and developments in the prudential that there are no significant risks occurring in the business that regulatory environment, and review significant actual or have not been raised through normal reporting routes.
potential breaches of prudential regulation and actions being taken to address these External environment Financial market conditions during 2013 were more benign than Revised committee terms of reference were adopted in December 2013 following an annual refresh.
The full terms of recent years, benefiting from the maintenance of expansionary monetary policies followed by central banks across a number of reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website at www.
com terms-of-reference, and are also economies.
Whilst some Western economies are beginning to grow, high levels of debt will continue to act as a brake on available from the Group Company Secretary.
growth and the low interest rate environment compared to historic norms is likely to persist in the immediate future at least.
There are, however, still several sources of macroeconomic and Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 79 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 geopolitical uncertainty, which have the potential to depress Actions included the sale of the US Life business, sale of the economic growth and cause financial market volatility such as Groups remaining interest in Delta Lloyd N. V. and actions to the potential for adverse consequences from the removal of reduce the Groups internal and external debt.
quantitative easing, a slowdown in the US recovery, renewed The committee received regular one-year liquidity forecasts challenges in emerging markets and political impasse in the and closely monitored the Groups ability to satisfy the 2012 final, 2013 interim and 2013 final dividend.
During the year the Group was designated a GSII, which The committee requested that management develop a plan to address the potential capital impact of future events such as brings the Group within scope of the policy requirements issued by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors, being classified as a GSII and the transition to Solvency II and what contingent actions could or should be taken.
including the development by July 2014 of a Systemic Risk Management Plan, the development of recovery and resolution During the year the committee recommended to the Board, approval of a new unguaranteed Euro Commercial Paper plans and additional loss absorbency capital requirements from January 2019, if the Group remains a GSII.
Programme and issuance of new hybrid debt and considered options to reduce the Groups debt.
It is now proposed that Solvency II will be implemented on 1 January 2016, following political agreement between the Methodology and assumptions Trilogue parties in relation to long term guarantee product and In early 2013, the committee considered and approved the investment measures.
Until the Level 2 Delegated Acts are methodology and assumptions used to calculate the economic finalised there remains uncertainty over the final capital impact capital for the 2013 ICA submission.
In late 2013 the committee on the Group.
considered and approved the methodology and assumptions for the 2014 ICA submission.
Committee activities during 2013 The work of the committee followed an agreed annual work Economic Capital Infrastructure Programme plan, which evolved throughout the year in response to the The implementation of the Solvency II Directive SII has been changing macro-economic and regulatory environment and delayed by the European Union until 2016.
The Group changes in the Companys strategy.
The Group Company continues to work towards compliance based on currently Secretary and the CRCO assisted the committee chairman in available guidance from the European Insurance and planning the committees work, and ensured that the Occupational Pensions Authority and is moving to an enhanced committee received information and papers in a timely manner.
economic capital model ahead of SII implementation as it is The chart below shows how the committee allocated its strategically important for Aviva to have a view of its businesses time during 2013. on an economic capital basis to inform our business decisions.
Risk management and governance Risk Committee allocation of agenda time The committee had an ongoing programme of receiving reports from local risk committee chairmen or Chief Executive Officers on the risk environment and issues arising in the Groups 22% Risk appetite, risk management and risk reporting businesses and in respect of particular product lines.
During the 23% Group capital, liquidity management and stress testing year, the committee received reports on the businesses in Italy, 10% Economic Capital Infrastructure Programme oversight Spain, France, the UK and the European region as a whole, and 10% Business unit and functional updates 8% Risk review of Group plan in respect of the Corporate and Speciality Risks business in the 12% Regulatory and governance UK and business lines in UK Life, Ireland Life, Poland, France and 10% Asset portfolio monitoring Aviva Investors.
The committee also received updates on issues 5% Other including internal audit concerning IT and data security and UK with-profits policies.
The committee received regular reports from the CRCO and monitored the effectiveness of the Companys RMF which is described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report and in note 58.
During the year the committee focused on the following areas: The committee assessed a customer culture review carried out at the Group centre and in the UK Life and General Risk appetite monitoring Insurance businesses and requested that the Risk function The committee received regular detailed reports on key risk review whether customer risks had been appropriately identified exposures, emerging and potential risks, and the drivers of in business plans, that sufficient processes were in place to risk throughout the Group.
It assessed and challenged the monitor such risks and that customer risks be included in the appropriateness of the Groups overall risk appetite.
committee monitored the Groups exposure against these The committee reviewed an internal assessment of the appetites, particularly in relation to liquidity appetite and adequacy, quality and effectiveness of the Risk and Compliance Individual Capital Adequacy ICA surplus and how the Groups functions and was satisfied that overall, the function was business plan improves the Groups capital position over time.
effective although the level or quality of resource needed to be increased in some business units.
Capital and liquidity management Following the approval of a revised capital management Regulatory oversight framework in 2012, the committee has closely monitored the The committee monitored the impact of the Financial Services Groups economic capital and liquidity positions against risk Authoritys split into the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and appetite and targets for the Group and for material subsidiaries.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA in the UK as well as the The Groups liquidity position and ICA surplus has increased relationship with regulators across the Group and discussed the throughout the year following implementation of a programme specific management actions identified to address or mitigate of strategic, economic and operational actions approved by the issues which arose during the year.
As discussed above, the committee and the Board to strengthen and provide greater Company has been designated as a GSII which will have a resilience to the Groups capital and liquidity position.
number of implications for the Group if it is still classified as a GSII in 2017.
The committee is monitoring managements 80 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 development of the Groups Systemic Risk Management Plan Governance Committee report and the plans to meet the potential capital requirements.
This Report provides details of the role of the Governance Fraud and financial crime Committee formerly known as the Corporate Responsibility The committee reviewed compliance with controls against Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
financial malpractice including fraud, and the arrangements for employees to report in confidence any concerns about lack of Committee role and responsibilities probity whistleblowing.
It oversaw the roll out of a financial The key responsibilities of the committee are to: crime plan and an upgraded system to screen for sanctions and take a leadership role in shaping the corporate governance politically exposed persons.
principles, culture and ethical values of the Group in line with the Groups strategic priorities Asset portfolio review oversee the brand and reputation of the Group Throughout the year the committee has carried out a review ensure that reputational risk is consistent with the risk of the Groups asset and investment portfolio to gain a more appetite approved by the Board and the creation of long detailed understanding of the Groups asset portfolio and how term shareholder value the investment decision process worked in the context of the oversee the Groups conduct with customers, including the RMF, asset allocation framework and relevant risk policies.
regulatory requirements relating to treating customers fairly Personnel and remuneration policy and offering of products and services that are fit for purpose During the year, the committee approved the CRCOs objectives and meet customer needs for 2013 and reviewed his performance against 2012 objectives.
oversee the Groups conduct in relation to its corporate and The committee also assessed senior managements performance societal obligations, including setting the guidance, direction against the agreed common risk objective and considered the and policies for the Groups customer and corporate appropriateness of the risk metrics when setting senior responsibility CR agenda and related activities and advising management remuneration policy.
the Board and management on these matters Internal controls The Governance Committee has evolved from the Corporate Working with the Audit Committee, the committee monitored Responsibility Committee during the year and revised terms of the adequacy of the RMF.
Throughout the year, the Groups reference were adopted in December 2013 to reflect its Internal Audit function continued to provide the committee with expanded remit.
The full terms of reference for the committee independent and objective reports on the appropriateness, can be found on the Companys website at effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of www.
com terms-of-reference and are also available from internal controls.
Key control issues reported by Internal Audit to the Group Company Secretary.
management and to the committee members were monitored on a quarterly basis until the related risk exposures had been Committee membership and attendance properly mitigated.
The committee comprises independent NEDs only.
The table More detail on the management of risk is contained in below shows the committee members during the year and their note 58. attendance at committee meetings.
Committee performance and effectiveness Membership and attendance The committee undertook an annual review of its performance Number of meetings 1 Committee member attended Percentage attendance and effectiveness which concluded that overall the committee Gay Huey Evans Chairman 6 100% was effective in carrying out its duties.
2 Michael Mire 1 100% In addition to undertaking its agreed annual programme of 3 Sir Adrian Montague 4 100% activities, the committee agreed that its priorities for 2014 Scott Wheway 6 100% should be to maintain the Groups capital and liquidity position 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the committee member attended during the year whilst a member of the committee.
consistent with an AA rating: grow the Groups economic 2 Michael Mire joined the committee on 12 September 2013. capital surplus: monitor economic trends and emerging risks: 3 Sir Adrian Montague joined the committee on 6 March 2013. monitor compliance with increased regulation: improve asset The committee met on six occasions in 2013.
The Group diversity and asset performance oversight and discussion: and Company Secretary or her nominee acts as the secretary to implement Solvency II.
The Chairman of the Board attended all meetings of the committee and the Group Corporate Responsibility Director, the Group HR Director, the Chief Marketing and Communications Officer and other members of senior management also attended meetings by invitation.
The chairman of the committee reported to subsequent meetings of the Board on the committees work and the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the committee.
Committee activities during 2013 Whilst they are not mutually exclusive, the following categories have been developed for the committee meeting agendas to ensure that sufficient coverage is given to each element of the committees remit: Shareholder Governance : Regulatory and Government: Reputation: Customer: People and Community.
The following chart shows how the committee allocated its time during 2013, with key activities set out below: Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 81 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 into product governance.
The committee also received a report Governance Committee allocation of agenda time which considered whether Group businesses had adequately identified customer risks in their business plans and the suitability of those plans to monitor those risks.
35% Shareholder Governance The committee reviewed and contributed to the 9% Regulatory and Government development of the Customer Thesis and received a regular 11% Reputation report on the Groups key customer metrics relating to customer 14% Customer retention, complaints, conduct and values.
11% People 20% Community People The committee contributed to the development of the People Thesis and to the work in relation to the Culture and Values Programme which led to a new set of values being implemented by management.
Updates were provided to the committee on compliance with the Business Ethics Code.
The committee also Shareholder Governance supported efforts to improve the percentage of women in A review was initiated to strengthen the Groups subsidiary senior management positions and across the general UK board framework.
The aim of the review was to ensure the employee population and received a summary of the 2013 implementation of best practice corporate governance Employee Promise Survey results.
throughout the Group, being mindful of local laws, regulation Community and customs.
As part of the process, consideration was given to whether the Companys subsidiary boards were appropriately The committee reviewed and approved the Group CR strategy for 2014-2016 and monitored progress made by the Groups resourced in terms of skills and capabilities and were balanced in terms of diversity.
businesses against each of the CR non-financial metrics.
Updates were given on the Street to School programme and The committee also received copies of the board effectiveness reviews undertaken by its subsidiaries and the health and safety within the Group.
actions implemented as a result of these reviews.
Assurance In order to develop stronger ties between the subsidiary In respect of the 2013 reporting year, independent assurance boards and the Board, a programme of visits by committee on the Groups CR and related activities and reporting was members to subsidiary board meetings was initiated.
In provided to the committee by PwC.
Members of the committee addition, and as part of the extension of its remit, the were interviewed as part of the external assurance process and committee is now responsible for overseeing the approval and the subsequent report and managements action plan were appointment of non-executive directors to material company reviewed by the committee to assist in strengthening and subsidiary boards.
setting the future direction of the CR programme.
The committee received a regular summary of the Groups legal issues and litigation which had the potential to impact the Corporate Responsibility Report reputation of the Group.
Updates on corporate governance The committee approved the Groups CR non-financial metrics developments were also provided and, where appropriate, that can be found in the Strategic Report and the Companys actions were considered and implemented.
CR report that can be found at www.
com corporateTo ensure independence, the Board entrusted the task of responsibility reports.
overseeing the 2013 Board and committee effectiveness review to the committee.
Independent Board Evaluation was selected Committee performance and effectiveness as the external facilitator based on a shortlist of third party The committee undertook an annual review of its performance candidates prepared by the Group Company Secretary.
and effectiveness which concluded that overall the committee Independent Board Evaluation have no other connection with was effective in carrying out its duties.
Further work will be the Company.
Further details of the evaluation is on pages 69 undertaken in 2014 to develop the work of the committee in view and 70. of its expanded remit.
Regulatory and Government The committee reviewed regulatory developments and conduct issues which had the potential to have a material impact on the Group and the management responses and actions in response to these.
It also reviewed the relationships with the regulatory authorities in the UK and in other jurisdictions where the Group has a significant presence.
Reputation The committee received regular reports concerning the reputational risks affecting the Group.
The committee considered the potential reputational issues arising from the Groups conduct and franchise risks and discussed relevant developments in the media and in the area of public policy which could impact the Group.
Customer Following the extension of its remit, the committee now has oversight of the Groups treatment of its customers and the impact of it products on its customer base.
The committee received reports from the Groups UK Life and General Insurance businesses concerning customer and product issues and initiated a programme of work to develop a greater insight 82 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 the issue or buying back by the Company of its shares, are Other statutory information subject to authority being given to the directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The directors submit their Annual report and accounts for At the 2014 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the Aviva plc, together with the consolidated financial statements directors authority to allot new securities.
Details are contained of the Aviva group of companies, for the year ended in the 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of AGM.
With the exception of restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The Directors Report required under the Companies Act shares under the Companys employee share incentive plans, 2006 comprises this Directors and Corporate Governance whilst the shares are subject to the rules of the plans, there are Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the following no restrictions on the transfer rights attaching to the Companys disclosures in the Our wider impact section of the ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
Strategic report: Where, under an employee share incentive plan operated by Greenhouse gas emissions the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares Health and safety practices but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally Employment of disabled persons exercised at the discretion of the participants.
No person holds Employee involvement securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any The Management Report required under Disclosure and agreements between holders of securities that may result in Transparency Rule 4.1.
5R comprises the Strategic report, restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Shareholder Information which includes the risks relating to There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or our business, and details of material acquisitions and disposals terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as made by the Group during the year in note 4. commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on Results the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys The Groups results for the year are shown in the consolidated employee share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a income statement on page 124. change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, Dividends subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions and The directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.4 pence pro rata reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the per ordinary share 2012: 9.00 pence, which, together with employee share incentive plans.
the interim dividend of 5.6 pence per ordinary share paid on 15 November 2013 2012: 10.00 pence, produces a total Authority to purchase own shares dividend for the year of 15.0 pence per ordinary share 2012: At the Companys 2013 AGM, shareholders renewed the 19.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2013 Companys authorities to make market purchases of up to 294 was 429 million 2012: 757 million.
Subject to shareholder million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8% preference approval at the 2014 AGM, the final dividend for 2013 will be 3 shares and up to 100 million 8 % preference shares.
These 8 paid on 16 May 2014 to all holders of ordinary shares on the authorities were not used during the year or up to the date of Register of Members at the close of business on 4 April 2014 this Report.
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approximately five business days later for holders of the renew these authorities for another year and the resolution will Companys American Depositary Receipts.
once again propose a maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which the Company can purchase of less than 10% of Share capital and control the issued ordinary share capital.
Details are contained in the The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased Notice of AGM.
The Company held no treasury shares during by 967,361 ordinary shares during the year which were the year or up to the date of this Report.
allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive plans.
At 31 December 2013 the issued ordinary share capital totalled Major shareholdings 2,946,939,622 shares of 25 pence each and the issued The table below shows the holdings of major shareholders in preference share capital totalled 200,000,000 shares of 1 the Companys issued ordinary share capital in accordance with each.
Accordingly, the issued and paid-up ordinary share capital the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 31 December 2013 constituted 79% of the Companys total issued share capital and 4 March 2014. and the issued preference share capital constituted 21% of the Companys total issued share capital at 31 December 2013.
All Shareholding interest the Companys shares in issue are fully paid up and the ordinary At 31 December 2013 At 4 March 2014 and preference shares have a Premium and Standard listing Notified Nature of Notified Nature of respectively on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is Shareholder holdings holding holdings holding 1 listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of BlackRock, Inc Above 5% Indirect Above 5% Indirect 2 Legal & General Group plc 3.06% Direct 3.06% Direct American Depositary Shares, referenced to ordinary shares, 1 AXA S. A.
3.86% Direct & 3.86% Direct & under a depositary agreement with Citibank.
Details of the indirect indirect Companys share capital and shares under option at 31 The Capital Group 3.06% Indirect 3.06% Indirect December 2013 and shares issued during the year are given Companies Inc in notes 31 to 34.
1 Holding includes holdings of subsidiaries.
2 Interest held by Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Ltd.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and preference shares, together with the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House and the Companys website at www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance articlesassociation, or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
The powers of the Companys directors are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances including in relation to Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 83 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 donations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act Directors 2006 are broad in nature and this authority is sought to ensure The directors as at the date of this Report are shown together that any activities undertaken throughout the Group, which with their biographical details in the Strategic report.
During the could otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions, can year and up to the date of this Report, the following Board be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
It is not appointments, resignations and retirements occurred: the policy of the Company to make donations to EU political Mark Wilson appointed Group CEO on 1 January 2013 organisations or to incur any other political expenditure.
Sir Adrian Montague appointed 14 January 2013 Aviva has not made any political donations during 2013.
Bob Stein appointed 28 January 2013 Trevor Matthews resigned with effect from 8 May 2013 Disclosure of information to the auditor Richard Goeltz retired 8 May 2013 In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, Russell Walls retired 8 May 2013 the directors in office at the date of approval of this Report Michael Mire appointed 12 September 2013 confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no Patricia Cross appointed 1 December 2013 relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor, Patrick Regan tendered his resignation on 22 January 2014 PwC, is unaware and each director has taken all steps that and will leave the Board and the Group before the AGM.
ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of any Under the Companys articles of association, the Board can relevant audit information and to establish that PwC is aware appoint additional directors or appoint a director to fill a casual of that information.
The new director must retire at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and can only continue as Annual General Meeting a director if they are elected by shareholders at the AGM.
The 2014 AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday, 30 April 2014 at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Directors interests and indemnity Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11am.
arrangements The Notice of AGM convening the meeting describes the At no time during the year did any director hold a material business to be conducted thereat.
interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision Related party transactions between each director and the Company and employment Details of related party transactions are disclosed in note 61 contracts between each executive director and a Group which is incorporated into this Report by reference.
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in Articles of association respect of itself and its directors.
The directors also have the Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the article of benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys association, the Companys articles of association may only articles of association.
The Company has executed deeds of be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company, and Companys current articles of association were adopted on each person who was a director of the Company during the 3 May 2012. year, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of associated Going concern companies.
These indemnities were granted at different times according The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the law in place at the time and where relevant are qualifying to affect its future development, performance and position are third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the set out in the Strategic Report.
The Performance Review Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities were in force includes the Risk and Capital Management section.
In addition, throughout the year and are currently in force.
Details of the financial statements sections include notes on the Groups directors remuneration, service contracts, employment borrowings note 50 : its contingent liabilities and other risk contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out factors note 53 : its capital structure and position note 55 : in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There is no arrangement management of its risks including market, credit and liquidity or understanding with any shareholder, customer, supplier, or risk note 58 : and derivative financial instruments note 59. any other external party, to appoint a director or a member of The Group has considerable financial resources together the Group Executive.
with a diversified business model, with a spread of businesses and geographical reach.
As a consequence, the directors Financial instruments believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable types of risks, including those relating to credit, foreign currency expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the property prices.
Details of the objectives and management of foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the these instruments are contained in the Risk and Capital going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Management section, the Shareholder Information section and an indication of the exposure of the Group companies to such Directors responsibilities risks is contained in note 58.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report Political donations and accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and At the 2013 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution, on a regulations.
precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make political Company law requires the directors to prepare financial donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors defined in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006, in have prepared the Group and parent company financial each case in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
As statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European the authority granted will expire on 30 April 2014, renewal of Union EU and issued by the IASB.
Under company law the this authority will be sought at this years AGM.
Further details directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are available in the Notice of AGM.
The definitions of political 84 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys and the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
They are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
The directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors listed in the Strategic Report confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit loss of the Group The Strategic Report and the Directors and Corporate Governance Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces By order of the Board on 5 March 2014.
Mark Wilson Patrick Regan Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 85 Aviva plc Directors and Corporate governance report continued Annual report and accounts 2013 New York Stock Exchange listing requirements The Companys ordinary shares are admitted to the NYSE and are traded as American Depositary Shares.
As a foreign company listed on the NYSE, the Company is required to comply with the NYSE corporate governance rules to the extent that these rules apply to foreign private issuers.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company is therefore required to comply with NYSE Rule 303A.
11 by making a disclosure of the differences between the Companys corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies listed on NYSE.
The Company complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code and other relevant best practice principles and guidelines.
The main differences between UK and US requirements are summarised below together with Avivas approach to compliance: NYSE Listing Rules UK Corporate Governance Code Aviva approach Independence criteria for directors Independent directors must form the At least half the Board, excluding the chairman, The majority of the Board comprises majority of the board of directors.
A director should comprise independent non-executive independent non-executive directors who are cannot qualify as independent unless the directors, as determined by the Board.
The Code deemed independent under the Code and meet Board affirmatively determines that the sets out its own criteria that may be relevant to the independence criteria in the NYSE rules.
director has no material relationship with the the independence determination, but the Board is company.
NYSE rules prescribe a list of permitted to conclude affirmative independence specific factors and tests that US listed notwithstanding the existence of relationships or companies must use for determining circumstances which may appear relevant to its independence.
determination, so long as it states its reasons.
Non-executive director meetings Non-management directors of each listed The chairman should hold meetings with the The independent non-executive directors meet company must meet at regularly scheduled non-executive directors without the executive without executive directors present at least executive sessions without management directors present.
and, if that group includes directors who are not independent, listed companies should at least once a year schedule an executive session including only independent directors.
Committees US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a nomination The Company has a Nomination Committee nominating corporate governance committee but not a corporate governance and a Governance Committee.
In addition to identifying committee.
a whole is ultimately responsible for the individuals qualified to become Board corporate governance of the Group and members, this committee must develop and oversees this through reports to the Board recommend to the Board a set of corporate and its committees.
US companies are required to have a The Company is required to have a remuneration The Company has a Remuneration Committee compensation committee.
committee and under the Companies Act 2006 is which covers all NYSE and Code requirements required to obtain shareholder approval of the and recommends the remuneration policy for remuneration policy for executive directors.
executive directors to the Board and shareholders for approval.
US companies are required to have an audit The Company must have an audit committee and The Company has an Audit Committee and at committee and that one member must meet at least one member must have recent and least one member meets both the NYSE and the requirements to be an audit committee relevant financial experience.
Code requirements on financial experience.
The audit committee should The Audit Committee does not review risk also cover risk matters.
management as this is covered by the Risk and Governance Committees.
Code of business conduct and ethics Companies are required to adopt and Not required under the Code.
The Company has adopted a Business Ethics disclose a code of business conduct and Code to which all employees are bound and ethics for directors, officers and employees, a Code of Ethics for senior management, which and promptly disclose any waivers of the complies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. code for directors or executive officers.
Shareholder approval of equity-compensation plans Shareholders must be given the opportunity Shareholder approval is necessary for certain All new equity-compensation plans or to vote on all equity-compensation plans and equity-compensation plans and significant amendments to existing plans that are required material revisions to those plans, with changes thereto, subject to certain exceptions.
to be approved by shareholders under the Code limited exceptions.
Detailed definitions of The Code does not provide a detailed definition are put to shareholders for approval.
material revisions are provided by NYSE.
or explanation of what are considered to be significant changes.
By order of the Board John McFarlane Chairman 5 March 2014
