ONE OF THE BOARDS PRIMARY The Board GOVERNANCE: What is the role of the Board?
RESPONSIBILITIES IS TO ENSURE DIRECTORS Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote THAT THE COMPANY IS RUN IN THE GOVERNANCE REPORT the long-term success of the Group by BEST LONG-TERM INTERESTS OF directing management in creating and OUR SHAREHOLDERS AND WIDER delivering sustainable shareholder value.
WE BELIEVE THIS CAN do this by setting the strategy and overseeing ONLY BE ACHIEVED IF THE ACTIVITIES its implementation by management.
While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, the Group OF THE GROUP ARE SUPPORTED BY also needs to deliver on short-term objectives APPROPRIATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and we seek to ensure that management PROCESSES.
OUR FRAMEWORK OF strikes the right balance between the two.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS REGULARLY REVIEWED IN LIGHT We are mindful of our wider obligations and OF CHANGES IN BGHS STRATEGY consider the impact our decisions will have on the Groups various stakeholders, such AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE as our employees, our shareholders, our DEVELOPMENTS.
customers and clients, the environment and our community as a whole.
In setting and Application of the UK Corporate monitoring the execution of our strategy, we Governance Code aim to ensure that we maintain an effective In September 2012, the Financial Reporting system of internal control, and that Council published the 2012 edition of the UK management maintains an effective risk Corporate Governance Code the Code, management and oversight process across which contains broad principles and specific the Group, so that growth is delivered in a provisions to help boards operate in the best controlled and sustainable way.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires all listed In order to ensure that we meet our companies to disclose how they have responsibilities, specific key decisions have complied with the provisions of the Code.
been reserved for approval by the Board.
This Corporate Governance Statement, These include decisions on the Groups together with the Directors Responsibility strategy, approval of risk appetite and capital Statement, the Going Concern Statement and liquidity matters, Board membership, and the Statement of Compliance, all of financial results and governance issues.
which are set out on pages 100 and 101, A full formal schedule of matters specifically indicate how BGH has complied with the reserved to the Board can be found on principles of good governance of the Code our website, at http: www.
co. uk en and its requirements for internal control.
corporate-governance BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE APPROPRIATE Details of Board meeting attendance in 2013 are as follows: CORPORATE Scheduled Additional meetings Scheduled meetings Additional GOVERNANCE eligible to meetings eligible to meetings Board attendance Independent attend attended attend attended PROCESSES Chairman Neil Janin N A 5 4 7 7 Executive Director Irakli Gilauri No 5 5 7 7 Non-Executive Directors David Morrison Yes 5 4 7 7 Allan Hirst Yes 5 5 7 7 Alasdair Breach Yes 5 5 7 7 Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 5 5 7 7 Ian Hague No 5 5 7 6 Hanna Loikkanen No 5 5 7 7 Company Secretary Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd Note that the members of the Board of BGH are identical to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank.
Over the course of 2013, seven meetings of the Supervisory Board were held in person or via teleconference.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 68 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 To assist us in carrying out our functions and The Chairman also seeks input from the We recognise the benefits of diversity in to ensure there is independent oversight of Non-Executive Directors ahead of each the Board, and the current members of the financial, audit and internal control issues, Board meeting in order to ensure that any Board have the wide range of skills and review of remuneration, share plans and particular matters raised by Non-Executive experience required to govern the Group.
other incentives as well as oversight and Directors are on the agenda to be In 2013, our Board included one woman, review of Board and executive succession discussed at the meeting.
In addition, and its members collectively represent five planning, the Board has delegated certain the Chairman meets with the CEO after different nationalities.
Geographic and responsibilities to Board Committees.
Each each meeting to agree the actions to be gender diversity together with key technical Board Committee has agreed Terms of followed up and to discuss how effective expertise in banking, risk, accountancy, Reference, which are approved by the the meeting was.
finance, technology and international Board.
Copies of each Committees Terms business will form core components of of Reference can be found on our website, Each Director committed an appropriate our Board succession planning as we look at http: www.
co. uk en corporateamount of time to their duties in 2013 and forward.
Balancing all of these factors to governance.
The Chairman of each Board the Non-Executive Directors met the time maintain an effective Board is a delicate Committee reports to the Board on the commitment specified in their letters of matter and we do not believe that imposing matters discussed at Board Committee appointment.
quotas is appropriate in this context.
You will find later in this section reports from the Chairman of each Board What makes our Board effective?
Director independence Committee on the Committees activities Our Board has primary responsibility for We consider Non-Executive Director in 2013 and priorities for 2014. ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the independence on a bi-annual basis as well as appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to part of each Directors performance evaluation.
In 2013, the Board made all decisions perform its role effectively.
We take an integrated In 2013, the Board was satisfied that the regarding risk and risk management at the approach to effective corporate governance, majority of its Non-Executive Directors were Board level.
The Board confirms that there is which is underpinned by openness, independent.
As a result of the resignations an ongoing process in place for identifying, transparency and accountability, as well as and appointments in December 2013, with evaluating and managing significant risks, constructive challenge and collaboration.
the exception of our Chairman, who met including those risks relating to social, the independence criteria of the Code on environmental and ethical matters.
The Board Key to ensuring the Boards effectiveness is appointment, all of our Non-Executive develops policies and procedures and the role enabling Directors full access to information and Directors are independent under the Code.
of management is to implement the Boards management across the Group.
The Chairman policies on risk and control and provide and Non-Executive Directors frequently conduct Evaluation of Board performance assurance on compliance with these policies.
site visits and interact with staff at all levels.
This The performance of the Board and its For a detailed discussion of the Groups risk gives them opportunities to see the culture and Committees is a fundamental component management procedures, see pages 48 values of the organisation in action, and also of the Companys success.
The Board to 57 of this Annual Report.
Effective from provides context to the formal information that regularly reviews its own performance and 1 January 2014, the Board has delegated they receive for Board meetings.
carried out a formal evaluation in December certain risk management responsibility to 2013.
The evaluation was conducted the newly formed Risk Committee, which The Board consistently probes, questions internally, coordinated and directed comprises four Independent Non-Executive and explores the logic behind management by the Chairman.
This Risk Committee will regularly actions, both in formal Board meetings and prepared by the Chairman and the report to the Board.
The Chairman Company Secretary, and formed the plays a particularly important role by ensuring basis of in-depth interviews with each The overall responsibility for the systems that all Board members have the opportunity Director.
The main areas considered of internal control and review of their to contribute fully in all Board discussions.
by the evaluation were performance, effectiveness also rests with the Board.
Given the collaborative nature of the Board, composition, expertise and strategy.
The Board has undertaken a full review Board members feel that they can speak their of systems of internal control with the minds freely and constructively challenge The results of the assessment were assistance of the Audit Committee.
In order management as well as other members of considered by the Board, and confirmed to assist the Board in discharging its overall the Board.
This atmosphere enhances the the strength of the management of the responsibility, the Audit Committee keeps Boards overall effectiveness.
Company, a sound governance framework under review the effectiveness of the system and practices compliant with the Code.
of internal control and reports regularly to Board size, composition and qualification The Board is satisfied that each of the the Board.
See page 78 of this Annual We have determined that the optimum Non-Executive Directors contributes to its Report for a detailed description of the Board size for BGH is seven to 10 members.
Annual reviews procedures implemented by the Audit In 2013 and as of the date of this Annual of the performance of the Audit, Nomination Committee with respect to internal control.
Report, we had eight Board members: the and Remuneration Committees have also Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and six been carried out as part of the Board How does the Board operate?
These reviews have confirmed We normally meet five times a year, for a Directors and their biographies and that each Committee continues to operate period of two to three days.
We meet more qualifications are set out on pages 72 and effectively.
As a result of the reviews, the frequently when the need arises and, in 73.
Details of Board Committee membership Board and each of the Committees agreed 2013, we arranged and held seven additional are set out on page 71 of this Annual Report.
action plans, which included a number of meetings at short notice to discuss other steps to build relationships and improve matters relevant to the Board.
In total, we The size and composition of a board, its procedures and effectiveness, given met as a Board 12 times during the year.
the qualifications of its members and the the recent Board changes.
All Directors make every effort to attend each balance of their skills have a significant meeting, whether in person or by telephone, impact on how effective that board is.
We unless circumstances, such as illness or prior regularly review these matters, both in terms commitments, prevent them from doing so.
of what we need now and what we might In such instances, they are able to provide need to be successful in the future.
Our the Chairman ahead of the meeting with any aim is to ensure that we have the right mix views or comments they may have on the for constructive group discussion and, matters to be discussed.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 69 GOVERNANCE: DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board will conduct an externally Non-Executive Directors terms of Our Articles of Association allow the Board facilitated effectiveness evaluation in 2014. appointment to authorise potential conflicts, and we have On appointment, our Non-Executive a comprehensive procedure in place to Succession planning and Directors are given a letter of appointment deal with any actual or potential conflict of Board appointments that sets out the terms and conditions of interest.
The Board takes into consideration We believe that effective succession their directorship, including the fees payable all the circumstances and deals with each planning mitigates the risks associated with and the expected time commitment.
Each appointment on its individual merit.
the departure or absence of well-qualified Non-Executive Director is expected to All potential conflicts approved by the Board and experienced individuals.
We recognise commit approximately 25 to 35 days per are recorded in an Interests Register, which this, and our aim is to ensure that the Board year to the role.
An additional time is reviewed bi-annually by the Board.
and management are always well resourced commitment is required to fulfil their roles as Following a review of the Interests Register with the right people in terms of skills and Board Committee members and or Board in 2013, the Board concluded that all the experience, in order to effectively and Committee Chairmen, as applicable.
We are potential conflicts as registered have been successfully deliver our strategy.
We also confident that all Non-Executive Directors considered thoroughly and appropriately.
recognise that, even though new faces dedicate the amount of time necessary to bring fresh ideas and perspective to how contribute to the effectiveness of the Board.
Board induction and things are done, continued tenure brings a The Letters of Appointment for our Nonprofessional development depth of Group-specific knowledge that is Executive Directors are available for We have a Director induction and ongoing important to retain.
development programme in place that inspection at our Companys registered office during normal business hours.
is tailored to the needs of each Director.
The Board Nomination Committee is We are committed to the continuing responsible for both Executive and Directors external activities development of Directors in order that they Non-Executive Director succession may build on their expertise and develop an and conflicts of interest planning, and recommends new Our Directors have a statutory duty to avoid ever-more-detailed understanding of the appointments to the Board.
There is a business and the markets in which Group situations in which they have or may have formal, rigorous and transparent procedure interests that conflict with those of the companies operate.
for the appointment of new Directors to Group, unless that conflict is first authorised the Board.
More detail on the role of the by the Directors.
This includes potential Our newly appointed Directors undertook Board Nomination Committee is on pages comprehensive induction training in February conflicts that may arise when a Director 96 and 97 of this Annual Report.
takes up a position with another company.
2014 and all other Directors received ongoing We recognise the importance of the training throughout 2013, including a full day In December 2013, our longest-standing experience, value and knowledge that can of corporate governance training in December Director, Allan Hirst, as well as our Directors be brought to the Board by Directors 2013.
At each Director evaluation in the case appointed by significant shareholders, Ian undertaking other roles or activities.
Our of continuing Directors or induction in the Hirst and Hanna Loikkanen, stepped down Directors are obliged to obtain authorisation case of newly joined Directors, the Chairman from the Board.
Upon recommendation prior to doing so, and it is their responsibility and Director agree a tailored development by the Nomination Committee, the Board to ensure that they will be able to meet the programme and the Chairman reviews the appointed three new Independent Nontime commitment we expect of them and performance of each Director annually as Executive Directors as discussed earlier that the additional role will not impact on discussed in greater detail above.
against the agreed development programme is a key component of this review.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are supported by the Company Secretary and through specialist advice on corporate governance matters.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 70 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Board Committees 2013 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP In 2013, the Board had three Committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Committee Committee Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for Neil Janin Member Chairman the oversight and review of financial, audit and internal disclosure issues.
The David Morrison Member Member Member Remuneration Committee is tasked with the Allan Hirst Chairman Member oversight and review of remuneration, share Alasdair Breach Chairman Member plans and other incentives.
The Nomination Kaha Kiknavelidze Member Member Committee is responsible for the oversight and review of Board and executive Ian Hague Member succession planning.
Hanna Loikkanen Member Kim Bradley Member Member Our Board has made a conscious decision to delegate a broader range of issues to the Bozidar Djelic Member Board Committees in order for the Board to Tamaz Georgadze Member focus more heavily on strategy, but has ensured effective connections between the Following the resignation of Mr Hirst on 19 December 2013, Mr Morrison was appointed Chairman of the Committees and the Board so as to ensure Audit Committee.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 71
