The role of the Audit Committee is to GOVERNANCE: monitor the integrity of financial information AUDIT COMMITTEE and to provide assurance to the Board that the Groups internal controls and risk REPORT management systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed.
We also oversee the work of the external auditors, approve their remuneration and recommend their appointment.
Our Audit Committee is solely comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Both the Group and the environment in which it operates are evolving rapidly.
The Audit Committee seeks to ensure that the Groups systems and controls are operating effectively not only for its current business, David Morrison but also that they are adapting to keep pace.
Chairman of Audit Committee Among our priorities for 2014 will be continued focus on loan loss allowances, ensuring implementation of FATCA compliance and looking closely at risks arising from our IT systems and controls.
DAVID MORRISON, CHAIRMAN OF The Audit Committee has delegated THE AUDIT COMMITTEE, OUTLINES authority from the Board set out in its THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEES written terms of reference, available ACTIVITIES DURING 2013 on the Companys website at http: www.
co. uk en corporateChairmans Overview governance.
These terms of reference I am pleased to have assumed the role of were last reviewed by the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee following in December 2013.
Further details on how the retirement of Allan Hirst from the Board the Audit Committee discharged its of BGH in December 2013.
Allan was a responsibilities and concluded that it is wonderful asset to the Audit Committee effective are provided below.
and his contribution is greatly appreciated.
In 2013, we also saw the addition of Kim Bradley to the Audit Committee.
Kim adds a wealth of financial experience that will enhance the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
David Morrison Chairman of the Audit Committee AUDIT 10 April 2014 COMMITTEE REPORT Key matters considered by the Audit Committee in 2013 The following table provides an overview of Receive reports from internal audit and corporate and information security, compliance and the Audit Committee meetings and the key physical security departments.
Discuss annual matters considered in 2013. internal audit planning report, and internal control environment.
February Approve internal audit plan and assess staffing Review draft financial statements for the year and training needs of internal audit and corporate ended 31 December 2012.
Discuss internal and information security, compliance and financial controls, changes in accounting physical security departments.
policies, the quality and consistency of the Assess effectiveness of internal audit, compliance application of the Groups accounting policies and corporate control departments.
and key financial judgements made during Assess effectiveness of Audit Committee and 2012, principally provisioning for loan loss confirm Committee members independence reserves and valuation of real estate.
and recent and relevant financial experience.
Meet separately with the external auditor to discuss the status of the external audit.
April Review preliminary results announcement and Meet separately with external auditor to discuss proposed dividend and make recommendation audit findings in respect of annual financial results.
to the Board regarding publication of the Approve the Audit Committee Report for Annual preliminary results announcement.
Report and recommend that Board approve and Assess external auditors effectiveness.
publish Annual Report and Accounts.
Consider the performance of the external auditor and prepare to recommend reappointment at the next AGM.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 76 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 The Audit Committee meetings are regularly Who is on the Audit Committee?
How did the Audit Committee Discharge attended by the Group CFO, Bank Chief Membership of the Audit Committee, its Responsibilities in 2013?
Financial Officer and heads of the Bank which is comprised of three independent Financial reporting and auditing issues internal audit and Corporate and Information Non-Executive Directors, and attendance The primary role of the Audit Committee Security, Compliance and Physical Security at meetings held in 2013 is shown in in relation to financial reporting is to monitor departments, and occasionally by the CEO.
the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, The external auditor is also invited to attend including all financial results announcements the Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit As mentioned above, in late 2013, Allan Hirst, and financial statements, to satisfy itself that Committee holds regular separate private the Chairman of our Audit Committee since any significant financial judgements made sessions with the heads of the Bank internal our listing on the premium segment of the by management are sound, to assess and audit and Corporate and Information Security, London Stock Exchange, retired from the report to the Board on the appropriateness Compliance and Physical Security departments Board and Audit Committee of the Company.
of the Groups accounting policies and and the external auditor.
These sessions, Having served as a member of the Committee practices, and to address issues raised by which are not attended by management, since listing, David Morrison assumed the EY in connection with the external audit.
allow the Audit Committee to discuss any position of Chairman and Kim Bradley was issues of concern in more detail and directly appointed to the Audit Committee in With support and input from the external with the audit teams.
From time to time, December 2013. auditor, the Audit Committee considered other members of management are invited the following primary areas of judgement: to attend meetings in order to provide a With respect to the Committees qualifications deeper level of insight into key issues and background, Mr Morrison is a trained Appropriateness of allowance for securities lawyer who specialised in financial and developments.
loan losses disclosure for over 25 years: Kaha The Audit Committee scrutinised the Kiknavelidze is a trained financial analyst Meetings of the Audit Committee take appropriateness of the allowance for loan place prior to the Board meeting in order skilled in financial statement analysis and losses.
The main judgements arose around continues to manage his own investment for the Audit Committee to report the the timing of the recognition of any given activity of the Audit Committee and fund: Mr Bradley served as a managing impairment and the size of the loan loss.
director at Goldman Sachs, where, matters of particular relevance to the Management reported to the Audit Committee Board as a separate agenda item.
immediately prior to joining the Companys on the methodologies for identifying assets Board and Audit Committee, he sat on various audit committees within the Meetings organisation and assessed internal audit eligible to Meetings functions and internal controls.
Our Committee Member Independent attend attended believes that each member has recent and Allan Hirst Former Chairman Yes 7 7 relevant financial experience in satisfaction David Morrison Current Chairman Yes 7 6 of the requirements of the Corporate Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 7 7 Governance Code.
Kim Bradley Yes 1 1 The biographies of the members of the Audit Secretary Committee are set out on pages 72 and 73 Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. of this Annual Report.
May Review the external auditors independence December including level of non-audit services during Review the first quarter results of the Group Meet separately with the external auditor to and recommend that Board approve and the first six months of the year.
receive an update on the external Audit Plan.
Receive an update from the Company publish announcement regarding same.
Review and approve draft budget for upcoming Receive reports from the internal audit and Secretary regarding upcoming changes to year and review report on working capital Corporate Governance Code, including the corporate and information security, compliance sensitivity analysis.
Discuss Audit Committee and sustainability reporting Review the external auditors independence, requirements.
status of internal audit, risk profile and internal including level of non-audit services.
Receive reports from internal audit and Attend the Annual General Meeting, including corporate and information security, compliance September addressing any relevant questions from and physical security departments.
Discuss Meet separately with the external auditor to shareholders.
status of internal audit, risk profile and internal discuss the Audit Planning Report and discuss control environment.
Focus on IT Security assessment of key risks identified by the including cyber-crime and FATCA compliance.
August Review with a view to modification as Review draft financial statements for the six Receive reports from the internal audit and appropriate the Audit Committees Terms corporate and information security, compliance months ended 30 June 2013. Review of Reference, Policy on Non-Audit Services, consistency of application of the Groups and physical security departments.
Discuss Internal Audit Policy, Risk Management Policy, status of internal audit, risk profile and internal accounting policies and key financial Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy, Related judgements made during the period.
Party Transaction and Whistleblowing Policy.
Meet separately with the external auditor to Training from external lawyers regarding the discuss review report from external auditor in November new regulatory requirements affecting the respect of the half-year financial results.
Review third-quarter results and recommend Audit Committee.
Review the Half-Year Report and recommend to Board to approve and publish the to Board to approve and publish the announcement regarding the same.
In addition to the activities discussed above, the Half-Year Report.
Audit Committee assessed potential conflicts of interest and related party transactions.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 77 GOVERNANCE: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED at risk, categorising the loan portfolio and Committee directly reviewed with the objectives.
An extensive staff development determining provisioning rates, as well as CEO and Group CFO the overall programme was also implemented, allowing the assumptions applied in calculating the messages and tone of the Annual employees to obtain specialised certification provisions for loan losses.
The Audit Committee also and enhanced training.
with these reports, the Audit Committee considered other information regarding challenged the underlying assumptions the Groups performance presented to Oversight of Internal Audit and made by management with respect to External Audit the Board during the period.
After individually and collectively impaired loans consideration of all of this information, Internal audit and the system of controls to prevent and In addition to receiving internal audits input the Audit Committee advised the Board detect errors in the estimation for loan losses.
that it considers the 2013 Annual Report on the control environment, we monitor the scope, extent and effectiveness of the internal and Financial Statements to be fair, Valuation of investment properties balanced and understandable.
audit function and seek to ensure it is and premises adequately resourced and focused on the Management reported to the Audit Committee Internal control correct issues.
We also review and approve on the methodology used in measuring the the annual internal audit plan which includes In accordance with the recommendations fair value of investment properties and of the FRCs guidance for Directors on a discussion of risk assessment.
We review premises and challenged the underlying the plan on a regular basis, including any Internal Control formerly known as the assumptions used by management.
The Turnbull guidance, the Groups systems of changes proposed to the scope of work, Audit Committee also discussed with as well as discuss and approve changes internal control are designed and operated management and the independent auditors to support the identification, evaluation and to internal audit methodology.
the reports of independent appraisers management of risks affecting the Group.
engaged to value the property based on They facilitate the effective and efficient At each physical Audit Committee meeting the values of similar locations and property in 2013, we received reports from internal operation of our business, provide assurance type and the market conditions at the time regarding the integrity of our internal reporting audit on audit activities, progress of the the investment properties and premises internal audit plan, the results of any and are designed to comply with relevant were valued.
laws and regulations, across all areas of unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these issues and resource operations.
These systems are subject to In relation to the financial reports overall: continuous review as circumstances change requirements of the internal audit The Audit Committee evaluated whether department.
We also reviewed and and new risks emerge.
See pages 48 and the going concern basis of accounting 49 for a discussion of the Boards overall monitored managements responsiveness was appropriate by assessing the to internal audits findings.
responsibility for internal control and Working Capital Report prepared by page 48 for a discussion of the Risk management.
This report covered the We also reviewed internal audits selfManagement Policy.
liquidity position and forecast capital assessment of its performance and ratios, balance sheet and leverage concluded that the internal audit function At each physical Audit Committee meeting position.
The report incorporated known on four occasions during 2013, the heads is effective and respected by management or expected regulatory changes and the and conforms to the standards set by the of our Corporate and Information Security, impact of possible stress scenarios.
Compliance and Physical Security and Institute of Internal Auditors.
After examining this report, the Audit internal audit departments made Committee concluded that the liquidity presentations on compliance and controlExternal audit and capital position of the Group The Audit Committee is responsible for related matters.
The presentations discuss remained appropriate and that there regulatory compliance, know your employee monitoring the performance, objectivity were no material uncertainties.
and effectiveness of the external auditor.
and customer programmes, information Having been tasked by the Board to security, corporate security, physical advise it, the Audit Committee examined At the start of the 2013 annual audit cycle, security and operational risk management.
the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts we received from EY a detailed Audit Plan, to consider whether they are fair, identifying their assessment of key risks and During 2013, key focus areas in relation balanced and understandable.
The to internal control were enhancing the discussed with EY the judgements forming Audit Committee did this by satisfying the basis of the Audit Plan.
For the 2013 technology used for fraud detection and itself that there was a robust process of monitoring and ensuring that the resource financial year, the primary risks identified review and challenge at different levels were in relation to the appropriateness of requirements of both the internal audit and within the Group to ensure balance and compliance functions were met so as to allowance for loan losses and valuation of consistency.
In doing so, the Audit investment properties and premises.
These enable each department to deliver on its Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 78 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 risks were tracked during the year and the The external auditor is required to rotate the incurred.
On an annual basis, the Audit Audit Committee reviewed the information audit partner responsible for the Group every Committee reviews the Group policy on provided by management and challenged five years.
The current lead audit partner has the provision of non-audit services in order the work done by EY to test managements been in place for two years.
It is the Audit to ensure that the objectivity and the assumptions and estimates around these Committees responsibility to recommend independence of the external auditor is areas, in particular the findings focused on to the Board the appointment or reappointment safeguarded and the terms of the policy management judgements.
or removal of the external auditor.
are complied with fully by EY.
The Audit Committee assessed the EY was appointed as our Group statutory A breakdown of the fees paid to the auditor effectiveness of the audit process in auditor by shareholders at our 2012 AGM, for audit-related services and non-audit addressing these matters through the reporting following a tender process and subsequent work may be found in Note 24 of the we receive from management throughout the Audit Committee and Board recommendation.
year and from EY at both the half-year and Shareholders reapproved EYs appointment year-end.
In addition, we sought feedback at the 2013 AGM.
During the course of the Further details of the non-audit services that from management on the performance of EY year, we have discussed with EY the business are prohibited or allowed under our policy throughout the audit process.
For the 2013 and financial risks and have sought assurance can be found on our website, at http: www.
financial year, management was satisfied that that these risks have been properly addressed bogh.
co. uk en corporate-governance there had been appropriate focus and in the audit strategy and plan that has been challenge on the primary areas of audit risk reviewed by the Audit Committee.
We have Following such review of the external auditor, and determined that the quality of the audit sought assurance and are comfortable that the Audit Committee found that EY was process was good.
Management also reported no undue pressure has been asserted on considered to be objective and independent that the coordination between the EY London the level of audit fees so as to ensure that in its role as Group statutory auditor.
The and Tbilisi teams was effective.
The Audit there is no risk to audit work being Audit Committee will recommend to the Committee also considered the Audit Quality conducted effectively.
Board and to shareholders that EY should Inspection Report and the FRC evaluation of be reappointed as the Groups auditor at EY for 2012 2013, issued in May 2013.
Over We conducted a review of the performance the 2014 AGM.
the course of the year, the Audit Committee and effectiveness of EY, which included an has also scrutinised the quality and experience assessment of its independence and Effectiveness of the audit partners and senior team members objectivity.
The performance of the Audit Committee engaged in the audit.
On the basis of the is reviewed each year as part of the Board foregoing the Audit Committee formed its In order to further ensure independence of Effectiveness Review, both by the Audit own judgement which was consistent with the external auditor, the Group has in place Committee itself and by the Board as a managements view, that the general quality a policy to govern the non-audit services whole.
In carrying out this review, the of the audit work conducted by EY is of a that may be provided by the external auditor, Audit Committee considered best high standard.
which sets out the circumstances in which practice recommendations.
the external auditor may be permitted to The Audit Committee also held private undertake non-audit services.
Allowable The 2013 review concluded that the Audit meetings with EY in order to provide services are preapproved up to 100,000.
Committee continues to operate and additional opportunity for dialogue and Any permissible non-audit service that perform effectively.
feedback from the auditor without exceeds this threshold requires approval management being present.
Matters from the Audit Committee and must be Ongoing training and development typically included the auditors assessment robustly justified and, if appropriate, Over the course of the year, the Audit of business and financial risk and the auditors tendered, before it is approved.
Committee received ongoing training from interaction with management, independence EY, the Company Secretary and other of the audit and the exercise of professional The Audit Committees policy on tax professional firms, including BGHs external scepticism.
advisory services is to not use the external legal advisers.
These sessions covered auditor unless there is a very strong case control effectiveness, financial reporting Appointment and independence for not seeking an alternative supplier.
processes, corporate governance changes Each year, the Audit Committee considers If non-audit services are undertaken by as well as best practice.
The Audit Committee the reappointment of the external auditor, the auditor, the Audit Committee receives will continue its ongoing training to further including the rotation of the audit partner a quarterly report on such non-audit enhance its effectiveness.
and assesses the external auditors services so that it can monitor the types performance, objectivity and independence.
of services being provided and the fees Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 79
