Chairmans Overview GOVERNANCE: In 2013, we focused on strengthening, NOMINATION broadening, balancing and understanding COMMITTEE REPORT the range of skills, experience and diversity on the Board and its Committees.
The implementation of our succession plan developed in 2012 was a key achievement in 2013 and a number of significant changes were made to the Board in order to strengthen independent oversight.
When initiating our search for new NonExecutive Directors, we developed a job specification for each appointment.
Our appointment policy is predicated on appointing the best possible candidates based on merit, against objective criteria.
We embrace diversity in all of its forms and ensured that our shortlist Neil Janin of candidates included individuals from a Chairman of Nomination Committee diverse range of backgrounds and that such a list was gender-neutral.
NEIL JANIN, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD As a result of this year-long search, we were very pleased to welcome three fully NOMINATION COMMITTEE, GIVES Independent Non-Executive Directors Kim HIS PERSONAL VIEW OF THE BOARD Bradley, Tamaz Georgadze and Bozidar Djelic NOMINATION COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES in December 2013 following the departure of DURING 2013.
Allan Hirst, Ian Hague and Hanna Loikkanen.
In conjunction with these appointments, we have also reviewed our Committee composition during the year, recommending the appointment of Mr Bradley as a member of both the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Georgadze and Mr Djelic were also recommended for appointment to the Nomination Committee.
Who is on the Nomination Committee and what are its Responsibilities?
Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings held in 2013 are shown in the table below.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 2013 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Meetings eligible to Meetings Member Independent attend attended Neil Janin Chairman N A 4 4 David Morrison Yes 4 4 Allan Hirst Yes 4 4 Alasdair Breach Yes 4 4 Kaha Kiknavelidze Yes 4 4 Ian Hague No 4 4 Hanna Loikkanen No 4 4 Kim Bradley Yes 1 1 Tamaz Georgadze Yes 1 1 Bozidar Djelic Yes 1 1 Secretary Kate Bennett Rea, on behalf of KB Rea Ltd. Neil Janin was deemed independent on appointment.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 96 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 In summary, the Committees role is to: The Group has historically placed a high review the composition of the Board emphasis on diversity and will continue and Board Committees to ensure they to do so looking forward.
Geographic and are appropriately constituted and gender diversity together with key technical balanced in terms of skills and expertise in banking, risk, accountancy, experience: finance, technology and international develop and consider succession plans business all form core components of our for the Chairman, Chief Executive Board succession planning.
Balancing all Officer, Non-Executive Directors and of these factors to maintain an effective key senior managerial roles: Board is a delicate matter and we do not identify and recommend to the Board believe that imposing quotas is appropriate the appointment of new Directors as well in this context.
as evaluate the suitability of Directors standing for re-election at the AGM: Throughout the year, we have also evaluate the independence of the undertaken training in order to remain up to Non-Executive Directors: date on significant developments and how agree the process for the annual Board these might impact the Group.
To ensure Effectiveness Review and track the that the Committee is operating effectively, progress of any actions arising: and we carried out our Committee review at the review the Committees report within time of the Board Effectiveness Review.
the Annual Report and recommend its The Committee is reviewed by the members approval to the Board.
themselves as well as by the Board as a whole.
Following the review, the Committee The Committees full Terms of Reference was found to be operating effectively.
are available from the section of our website, http: www.
co. uk en Looking Ahead to 2014 corporate-governance For 2014, the Committee will continue to focus on succession planning and Board How did the Nomination Committee and Committee refreshment, based on a Discharge its Responsibilities in 2013?
continuous review of Board and Board This year, in line with our 2012-13 action plan, Committee composition against our skills the Committee spent a significant amount and experience requirements and diversity of time discussing succession planning.
We will also look to have greater We undertook a review of the structure, size, visibility of potential candidates for key composition and balance of skills on the senior positions with the Group.
A review Board and Committees with a particular of induction training as well as ongoing focus on tenure and independence.
training and knowledge of all Directors will also be a priority.
As a result of this review, we determined that Mr Hirst, Mr Hague and Ms Loikkanen should each retire from the Board upon the selection of new fully independent Non-Executive Directors with the required skill set necessary to complement the Board.
Following a lengthy search for suitable candidates, Neil Janin we recommended the appointment of Chairman Mr Bradley, Mr Georgadze and Mr Djelic Board Nomination Committee in December 2013 in conjunction with 10 April 2014 the retirement of Mr Hirst, Mr Hague and Ms Loikannen.
In 2013, we also discussed the appointment renewal for myself, Mr Morrison, Mr Gilauri, Mr Breach and Mr Kiknavelidze as well as refining our succession plan, taking into consideration the new composition of our Board, balance of skills as well as tenure of the Directors recommended for appointment renewal.
The proposed retirement of each Board member is presented on page 87 of this Annual Report.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 97
