David Morrison GOVERNANCE: Chairman Senior Independent THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Neil Janin was appointed as Chairman of Non-Executive Director BGH on 24 October 2011 and was elected David Morrison was appointed as the Senior by shareholders on 1 June 2012 and Independent Non-Executive Director of BGH re-elected at the AGM in 2013.
He serves as on 24October 2011 and was elected by Chairman of BGHs Board and Nomination shareholders on 1June 2012 and re-elected Committee as well as a member of BGHs at the AGM in 2013.
Mr Morrison replaced Remuneration Committee.
Mr Janin also Allan Hirst as Chairman of the Audit Committee serves as Chairman of the Supervisory as of 19 December 2013, prior to which Board of the Bank and a member of its he served as a member of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee, positions he Mr Morrison is also a member of BGHs has held since 2010.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and serves as Vice-Chairman of the Banks Mr Janin serves as counsel to CEOs of both Supervisory Board and as a member of the for-profit and non-profit organisations and Banks Audit and Remuneration Committees, continues to provide consulting services to positions he has held since 2010.
Prior to joining the Prior to joining the Bank Supervisory Board, Bank in 2010, Mr Janin was a Director of McKinsey & Company, based in its Paris he founded the Caucasus Nature Fund CNF, a charitable trust fund dedicated office, for over 27 years, from 1982 until his retirement.
At McKinsey & Company, he to nature conservation in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, and continues to serves as conducted engagements in the retail, asset management and corporate banking its Executive Director.
Prior to founding the CNF, Mr Morrison worked for 28 years at sectors, and was actively involved in every aspect of organisational practice, including Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where he served as Managing Partner of the firms Continental design, leadership, governance, performance enhancement and transformation.
His practice focused on advising public companies in a transactional while serving as member of the French Institute of Directors, Mr Janin authored a context, from mergers and acquisitions to position paper on the responsibilities of capital raisings.
Key banking clients he advised the Board of Directors with regards to include Banco Espirito Santo in Portugal and the design and implementation of a Germanys development bank, Kreditanstalt fr companys strategy.
Before joining McKinsey Wiederaufbau KfW.
He also served on the & Company, Mr Janin worked for Chase Board of Directors of KfWs finance subsidiary Manhattan Bank now JP Morgan Chase in for 20 years.
Mr Morrison is the author of New York and Paris, and Procter & Gamble several publications on securities law-related in Toronto.
Mr Janin has practised in Europe, topics, and has been recognised as a leading Asia and North America.
lawyer in Germany and France.
Mr Janin holds an MBA from York Mr Morrison received his undergraduate University, Toronto, and a joint honours degree from Yale College and received his law degree in Economics and Accounting from degree from the University of California at Los FULLY McGill University, Montreal.
Angeles, and was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Frankfurt.
Irakli Gilauri Chief Executive Officer 4.
Alasdair Al Breach Irakli Gilauri was appointed as an Executive Independent Non-Executive Director NON-EXECUTIVE Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and was Al Breach was appointed as an Independent elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012 and Non-Executive Director of BGH on 24 October DIRECTORS re-elected at the AGM in 2013.
Mr Gilauri has 2011 and was elected by shareholders on served as CEO of BGH since his appointment 1 June 2012 and re-elected at the AGM in in 2011, and also serves as CEO of the Bank, 2013.
Mr Breach serves as Chairman of BGHs a position he has held since May 2006.
Remuneration Committee and serves as a Mr Gilauri is also Chairman of the member of BGHs Nomination Committee Supervisory Board of Aldagi and a member and recently established Risk Committee.
of the Supervisory Board of the following MrBreach also served as a member of the subsidiaries of the Bank: BG Capital, BNB, Banks Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Galt & Taggart Holdings and m2 Real Banks Remuneration Committee, positions he Estate.
Mr Gilauri also serves as the CEO has held since 2010, and has also been appointed to the Banks recently of m2 Real Estate.
Before his employment with the Bank, Mr Gilauri was a banker at the EBRDs Mr Breach runs Furka Advisers, a Swiss-based asset management firm, is a significant Tbilisi and London offices for five years, where he worked on transactions involving shareholder in Gemmstock Growth Fund and is the co-founder of The Browser.
com, a debt and private equity investments in Georgian companies.
web-based curator of current affairs writing, established in 2008.
He has also served on the Mr Gilauri received his undergraduate degree Board of Directors of Vostok Nafta Investments plc, a Russia-focused Stockholm-based in Business Studies, Economics and Finance from the University of Limerick, Ireland, in 1998. investment company since 2007.
In January 2003, Mr Breach joined Brunswick UBS later He was later awarded the Chevening Scholarship, granted by the British Council, UBS Russia as Chief Economist, and later was appointed Head of Research and to study at the Cass Business School of City University, London, where he obtained his Managing Director until October 2007.
From MSc in Banking and International Finance.
1998 to 2002, Mr Breach was a Russia and FSU Former Soviet Union economist at Goldman Sachs, based in Moscow.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 72 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Mr Breach obtained an MSc in Economics from the London School of Economics and an undergraduate degree in Mathematics and Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
Kakhaber KahaKiknavelidze Independent Non-Executive Director 9 10 5 6 8 7 Kaha Kiknavelidze was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of BGH on 24 October 2011 and was elected by shareholders on 1 June 2012 and re-elected at the AGM in 2013.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a member of BGHs Audit and Nomination Committee and newly established Risk Committee.
Mr Kiknavelidze also serves as a member of the Banks Supervisory Board and Audit Committee, positions he has held since 2008, and has also been appointed to the 3 2 1 11 Banks recently established Risk Committee.
Mr Kiknavelidze is the founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital Partners LLP, an investment management company he continues to operate from London.
Mr Kiknavelidze has over 15 years experience in the equity markets, including serving as Executive Director of UBS, where he supervised the Russian oil and gas research Kim holds an MA in International Affairs 8.
Prior to joining UBS, he spent eight from the Columbia University School of Independent Non-Executive Director years at Troika Dialog, initially covering International Affairs and an undergraduate Tamaz Georgadze was appointed as an metals and mining and the utilities sectors degree in English Literature from the Independent Non-Executive Director of and later, as Deputy Head of Research and University of Arizona.
BGH on 19 December 2013 and will be Associate Partner, leading the oil and gas offered for election by shareholders at the team.
Mr Kiknavelidze began his career at 7.
Mr Georgadze serves as a the Bank as a Financial Manager in 1994.
Independent Non-Executive Director member of BGHs Nomination Committee Bozidar Djelic was appointed as an and recently established Risk Committee.
Mr Kiknavelidze received his undergraduate Independent Non-Executive Director of degree in Economics with honours from the BGH on 19 December 2013 and will be In 2013, Mr Georgadze founded SavingGlobal Georgian Agrarian University in Tbilisi, offered for election by shareholders at the GmbH, a company focused on launching the Georgia, and received his MBA from Emory AGM in 2014.
Mr. Djelic serves as a member first global deposit intermediation.
Prior to University in the United States.
founding this company, Mr Georgadze had a 10-year career at McKinsey & Company in 6.
Kim Bradley Since January 2014, Mr Djelic has served as Berlin, where he served as a Partner from Independent Non-Executive Director Managing Director in the Sovereign Advisory 2009 to 2013 and provided consultation Kim Bradley was appointed as an Department of Lazard, based in Paris.
Bozidar services for retail banks in Germany, Independent Non-Executive Director of Djelic also currently serves as a member of Switzerland, Russia, Georgia and Vietnam.
BGH on 19 December 2013 and will be EBRDs Transition to Transition Senior Prior to joining McKinsey & Company, Tamaz offered for election by shareholders at the Advisory Group.
Prior to this, he served worked as an aide to the President of Georgia 2014 AGM.
Mr Bradley serves as a member as Deputy Prime Minister for European in the Foreign Relations Department from of BGHs Nomination and Audit Committees Integration and Minister of Science and 1994 to 1995. and is Chairman of the recently established Technological Development of Serbia from Risk Committee.
From 2007 to 2008, Bozidar Mr Georgadze holds two PhDs, one in served as sole Deputy Prime Minister of Economics from Tbilisi State University and Mr Bradley retired from Goldman Sachs in Serbia, and as Governor of the World Bank the other in Agricultural Economics from early 2013, following 15 years as a Managing Group and Deputy Governor of the EBRD.
Director in the Real Estate Principal From 2005 to 2007, he was Crdit Agricole MrGeorgadze also studied Law at JustusInvestments and Realty Management divisions, Groups Director for Eastern Europe and the Liebig Universitt Gieen and graduated where he focused on investment in both FSU, leading the acquisition and management with honours.
European real estate and distressed debt.
of several banks in the region.
From 2001 to In addition to his investment activities, Mr 2004, Mr Djelic served as Minister of Finance Recently Retired Directors Bradley led Goldmans asset management and Economy of Serbia, leading the countrys On 19 December 2013, three members affiliates in France, Italy and Germany.
He has macro and banking reform.
From 1993 to stepped down from the Board.
also served as President of Societa Gestione 2000, he worked at McKinsey & Company 9.
Allan Hirst Crediti, a member of the Board of Directors in Paris and Silicon Valley, specialising in 10.
Ian Hague of Capitalia Service Joint Venture in Italy financial institutions, asset management 11.
Hanna-Leena Hanna Loikkanen and Chairman of the Shareholders Board and media.
He has also held various advisory at Archon Capital Bank Deutschland in positions, including adviser to the Polish Germany.
Prior to Goldman Sachs, he served and Romanian Governments.
as a Senior Executive at GE Capital for seven years in both the United States and Europe, He holds an MBA from the Harvard where his activities included real estate Business School, an MPA from Harvards workouts and restructuring, as well as J. F. Kennedy School of Government and an acquisitions.
Prior to GE Capital, Mr MA in Economics from the cole fide Hautes Bradley held senior executive positions at tudes in Social Sciences.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust now part of JP Morgan and Dollar Dry Dock Bank.
He has also served as a Peace Corps volunteer and as a consultant with the US Agency for International Development in Cameroon.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 73
