The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 25 Corporate Governance Statement The directors present the Corporate Governance Statement Executive directors remuneration for the year ended 31 October 2013.
As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required to comply with the principles of the UK Code in respect Applicable corporate governance codes of executive directors remuneration and does not have a The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in of the Companys affairs.
As an investment trust the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 and 33.
Company has delegated its day-to-day responsibilities to third Internal audit function parties: the Company has no employees and the directors are As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day all non-executive.
Thus not all the provisions of the UK operations and has no employees, the Board has Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the determined that there is no requirement for an internal FRC are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has audit function.
The directors annually review whether a therefore considered the principles and recommendations of function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and the Code of Corporate Governance published by the will continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in Association of Investment Companies in February 2013 the order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Directors Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the Board independence and tenure policy applicable principles, as well as setting out additional The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific on the Board, and believes that retaining directors with relevance to the Company.
The FRC has confirmed that, by sufficient experience of both the Company and the following the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
should fully meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code The Board believes that each of the directors exercises and paragraph 9.8.
independent judgement and that length of service does not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be found on the respective organisations websites: directors experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term New Zealand listing view.
This view is supported by the AIC Code.
It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate The directors biographies, on page 22, demonstrate Governance UK Code and AIC Code may materially differ their breadth of investment, commercial and professional from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate governance experience relevant to their positions as directors on the rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Statement of compliance There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches of the year in which a director of the Company is or was importance to the matters set out in the AIC Code and lists materially interested and which is or was significant in below how the AIC Codes principles have been applied.
relation to the Companys business.
No director has a The directors believe that during the year under review they service contract with the Company.
No director is have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code, and entitled to compensation for loss of office on the insofar as they apply to the Companys business, with the takeover of the Company.
provisions of the UK Code except as noted below.
The directors annually review their independence.
The The role of chief executive Nominations Committee has considered the continued Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day appointment of Richard Killingbeck who has served on the management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Board for over ten years.
He has no other links to the Manager, the Company does not have a chief executive.
Manager: in addition he has a wide range of other 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 25 15 01 2014 15:35 26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement continued interests and is not dependent in any way on the required.
The directors have regular contact with the Company itself and the Nominations Committee Portfolio Manager and Corporate Company Secretary concluded that he continues to make a valuable between formal meetings.
The Board has a formal schedule contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which are length of service, he remains independent in character categorised under various headings including strategy, and judgement.
management and structure, gearing, financial reporting and other communications, Board membership and other Board succession and policy for recruitment appointments, contracts, internal control, corporate The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure governance and miscellaneous.
that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and The Board is responsible for the approval of annual and half experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost year results, interim management statements and other by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to public documents and for ensuring that such documents demonstrate their commitment to the Company, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass the Companys position and prospects.
The directors confirm relevant past and current experience of various disciplines that they are satisfied that the Report and Financial while also considering diversity.
Statements for the year ended 31 October 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Directors professional development information necessary for shareholders to assess the When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a Companys performance, business model and strategy.
training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key information Audit Committee on the Companys activities including regulatory and The Audit Committee comprises Matthew Thorne, Richard statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes Burns and Susan Inglis, all of whom are considered affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in Matthew Thorne.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least relevant training and industry seminars.
one of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial experience and the directors biographies are shown Directors indemnity on page 22.
The Committee has written terms of reference, Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
in respect of the directors.
The Companys articles of association provide, subject to the provisions of UK The Committee met three times during the year under review legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs and the main duties undertaken were: which they may incur relating to the defence of any a review of the half year results and the annual financial proceedings brought against them arising out of their statements, including the disclosures made therein in positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or relation to internal controls and risk management, going judgement is given in their favour by the court.
concern and related parties and consideration of whether The Board the report is fair, balanced and understandable: Chairman consideration of the appropriate level of dividend to be The Chairman, Richard Killingbeck, is an independent nonpaid by the Company: executive director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director consideration of the internal controls in place at Henderson and its Administrators BNP Paribas, as Richard Burns is the Senior Independent Director.
described on page 29, and Hendersons policies in Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees relation to cyber risk and business continuity: The Board meets formally at least seven times a year, with additional Board or committee meetings arranged when consideration of the Companys key risks and risk map: 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 26 15 01 2014 15:35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit During the year the Company engaged and the findings therefrom and whether there is a need for  LLP PwC in the UK for the an internal audit function, as described on page 25: liquidation of its subsidiary company and in respect of a claim for VAT.
It also engaged PwC in Taiwan for tax compliance consideration of the terms of appointment of the auditor, services in respect of the Taiwanese investments as required its performance and remuneration: by the law in Taiwan.
The directors have ensured that the consideration of the auditors independence and provision of these non-audit services did not impact the objectivity and any non-audit services provided: and independence of the audit.
Since the year end the Company has engaged from 1 January 2014 Grant Thornton in Taiwan consideration of the whistle blowing policy that the for tax compliance services in place of PwC.
PwC has also Manager has put in place for its staff to raise concerns terminated its engagement in respect of the VAT claim due to about possible improprieties, including in relation to the independence rules surrounding PwC being appointed as Company, in confidence.
The policy includes the auditors of the Manager.
necessary arrangements for independent investigation and follow-up action.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by PwC.
The Audit In relation to the Report and Financial Statements for the year Committee is satisfied that the auditor is independent of the ended 31 October 2013 the following significant issues were Company.
As the Company is in the FTSE 350, it is now considered by the Committee: required to put the contract out to tender at least every ten Significant How the issue was addressed years.
The audit appointment has not been put to tender in Issue the last ten years, however, the Audit Committee has Valuation and Actively traded investments are valued regularly reviewed the performance of the auditor, taking ownership of using stock exchange prices provided into consideration the services and advice provided to the the Companys by third party pricing vendors.
Company and the fees charged for their services.
In light of investments Investments that are unlisted or not recent UK and emerging European regulation on audit actively traded are valued using a tendering and rotation, the Board have agreed that 2014 is variety of techniques to determine their a suitable time to put the audit out for tender.
As set out in the accounting will report on the outcome of the process to shareholders polices note on page 39 all such later in the year.
Due to impending European legislation on valuations are reviewed by both the mandatory audit firm rotation and length of tenure our Managers fair value pricing committee current auditors: PwC will not be participating in the audit and by the directors.
Recognition of Income received is accounted for in line Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, PwC will income with the Companys accounting policy continue as the Companys auditors until another audit firm is as set out on page 40 and is reviewed appointed.
Accordingly resolutions to reappoint PwC as by the Committee at each meeting.
auditors to the Company, and to authorise the directors to Compliance with The Committee regularly considers the determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
section 1158 of controls in place to ensure that the Representatives of the auditor attend the Audit Committee the Corporation regulations for ensuring investment meeting at which the Report and Financial Statements are Tax Act 2010 trust status are observed at all times.
reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to the Maintaining The Committee receives regular reports Committee members without the presence of the internal controls on internal controls from the Manager representatives of the Manager.
and Administrator and has access to the relevant personnel of the Manager The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present who have a responsibility for risk at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Financial management and internal audit.
28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement continued Nominations Committee discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and timely The Nominations Committee comprises Richard Killingbeck, access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board Richard Burns and Susan Inglis.
The Chairman of the reviews the Companys investment performance and considers Nominations Committee is Richard Killingbeck.
The Committee, financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
which meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives structure and is responsible for Board succession planning.
The and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, other members of the Board may attend meetings of the investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has Nominations Committee by invitation.
The Board thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, gender and unquoted investments and all investments in in-house funds diversity existing on the Board.
The Nominations Committee managed or advised by the Manager.
It also has adopted considers diversity as part of the annual performance a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, evaluation and it is considered that the directors have a range to take independent professional advice at the expense of of backgrounds and each director brings different qualities to the Company.
the Board and its discussions.
It is not considered appropriate for the Company to have set targets in relation to diversity: The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the candidates will be assessed in relation to the relevant needs of investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these the Company at the time of appointment.
The Nominations meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant Committee will make recommendations to the Board when the matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
recruitment of additional non-executive directors is required.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held Management Engagement Committee during the year and the attendance of individual directors are The Management Engagement Committees membership shown below.
All directors attend the Annual General comprises all the members of the Board.
The Chairman of the Meeting.
The Committee meets at Management Audit Nominations Engagement least annually to review the investment management Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 3 1 2 agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the 1 services provided by the Manager.
Richard Brewster 7 n a 1 2 2 Richard Burns 7 1 1 2 Remuneration Committee Richard Killingbeck 7 3 1 2 Directors fee levels are set in line with the remuneration policy, Matthew Thorne 7 3 n a 2 as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33, 3 Peter Sullivan 4 3 1 1 which is subject to shareholder approval.
Susan Inglis 7 3 1 2 Board attendance The membership of each Committee is shown on page 22.
Currently, the Board meets seven times per annum and is 1 Richard Brewster retired on 25 September 2013. responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys 2 Richard Burns became a member of the Nominations Committee on 19 June affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at various 2013 and the Audit Committee on 25 September 2013.
3 meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the Board Peter Sullivan resigned on 19 June 2013. may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule Performance evaluation of matters specifically reserved for its decision which are The Company categorised under various headings including strategy, The performance of the Company is considered in detail at management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal each Board meeting.
controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount premium, contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment The Board restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board In accordance with the UK Code, the Company is required to membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to engage an external facilitator for the Board evaluation every 79709 HGI Bankers Text V2.
indd 28 15 01 2014 15:35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 29 Corporate Governance Statement continued three years.
The evaluation for the year under review was designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance conducted externally by Lintstock Limited.
In order to review against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
the effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and the individual directors, a thorough appraisal process was The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, undertaken.
This was implemented by way of questionnaires evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the including one relating to the Chairman.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this of the Board, and individual directors, was deemed fully report, the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The process was considered by the Board to be The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal functioning and performance of the Board and the control and the business risks have been analysed and recorded Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board receives building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
each quarter from the Manager a formal report which details Having undertaken an external evaluation the Board did not the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those consider it necessary to perform a separate evaluation of its that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager, and own performance.
which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the Manager and its The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and Administrators a report on its internal controls which includes services provided by the Manager which, through its a report from the Managers and its Administrators reporting nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the accountants on the control policies and procedures in Board and Committee procedures are followed and that operation.
applicable regulations are complied with.
During the year the The Board confirms that, in the event of any significant failings Company has maintained insurance cover in respect of legal or weakness identified from the annual review of the action against the directors: this does not cover fraud, effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, negligence or wilful default.
necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
No Internal controls significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems were identified in the year under review.
of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These Accountability and relationship with the Manager controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and Financial Statements is set out on page 31, the Report of the the financial information used within the business and for Independent Auditors on pages 59 to 61 and the Statement of publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering Going Concern on page 24. financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and regular investment performance and attribution statements, other external third parties the management of the investment financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding quarterly control report.
Key risks have been identified and of the assets and the day-to-day accounting, company controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, including secretarial, administration and registration services.
Each of those risks that are not directly the responsibility of the these contracts was entered into after full and proper Manager.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the by the Managers compliance and risk departments on a services offered, including the control systems in operation in continuing basis and is also reviewed by the Company.
so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems of The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are the Board as required.
indd 29 15 01 2014 15:35 30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act Information about the Company can be found at 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its www.
com zero tolerance of bribery and corruption in its business At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager activities.
It has sought and received assurances from its main following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and safeguards to protect against any potentially illegal behaviour the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
by their employees and agents.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
Continued appointment of the Manager It is the intention of the Board that the Report and Financial The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders Board meeting and the Management Engagement Committee so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meets at least annually to review the continuing appointment AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of of the Manager.
In the opinion of the directors the continued the AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Corporate appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Company Secretary at the address given on the inside back Manager has extensive investment management resources and cover.
At other times the Company responds to letters from wide experience in managing and administering investment shareholders on a range of issues.
General presentations to both shareholders and analysts Share Capital follow the announcement of the annual results.
All Please see the Report of the Directors on page 23. meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Relations with shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board By order of the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Half-Year Update and Annual Report and Financial Statements which aim Wendy King FCIS to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the For and on behalf of Companys activities and their results.
This information is Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication at Corporate Company Secretary the Stock Exchange of the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
17 January 2014 Warning to Shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Equiniti Limited, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Corporate Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on the inside back cover.
