Corporate governance report Dear Shareholders Last year, in my first report as Chairman, I outlined the important ways in which Barclays was changing, in terms of its culture and values, its leadership and its risk management and control framework.
I look back on my first full year as Chairman and can say with some con dence that substantial progress has been made in implementing these necessary changes.
Doing business in the right way We recognised that to embed cultural change we had to change how our people behave, including challenging established mindsets and attitudes.
As part of our Transform programme, we have set a simple goal to make Barclays the Go-To bank for all our stakeholders.
We have fide ned a common purpose to assist us in reaching that goal, which is to help people achieve their ambitions in the right way.
And we have clearly set out the values respect, integrity, service, excellence and stewardship that we expect everyone in Barclays to demonstrate in achieving that purpose.
To reinforce these values and drive good behaviours, 2013 saw the launch of The Barclays Way, a single code of conduct, which is fully endorsed by the Board and applies across Barclays.
It sets out how the values should be put into practice by each of us in our interactions with Barclays colleagues, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, competitors and the wider community in which we operate.
You can read The Barclays Way on our website at Barclays.
To support the achievement of sustainable business performance, which is vital for the long-term success of Barclays, we have also introduced a Balanced Scorecard to measure Barclays performance.
This sets out a series of measurable financial and nonfinancial Key for the Board is ensuring commitments, covering our 5Cs Customer & Client, Colleague, Citizenship, Conduct and Company so that we, and our stakeholders, that we have the right strategy, have a clear idea of what success looks like on our journey to becoming the Go-To bank.
You can read more about the 5Cs and the Balanced a robust and appropriate Scorecard in the Strategic Review.
risk management and control The right strategy Key for the Board is ensuring that we have the right strategy, a robust framework and the right and appropriate risk management and control framework and the right people in place to create long-term value for shareholders.
Our role as people in place to create longthe Board is to set direction and risk appetite and to provide oversight and control of management in running the business on a day-to-day term value for shareholders.
We rely on management for timely and relevant information, to distil complex and technical material into matters requiring often nely balanced business judgments and to identify the signi cant issues and present them to the Board for discussion and decision.
One of my roles as Chairman is to ensure that the Board receives the information it needs when it needs it, to ensure that there is adequate time set aside at Board meetings for the open and collective discussion and debate of signi cant issues and, once a well-informed decision is reached, to empower management to then execute that decision with the ongoing oversight and support of the Board.
I can think of no better examples of this process in action than the Boards endorsement of the Transform programme in early 2013 and the decision we made in July 2013 to undertake a rights issue.
Below you can read about the Boards role and the intensive oversight to which both were subject.
The right risks and controls As a financial institution, it is our business to understand, measure, manage, price and mitigate risk.
Putting it simply, taking risk is what we do.
In doing so, we recognise that we have a responsibility towards ensuring the safety, soundness and ethical operation of the financial system and are cognisant of the social impact should we fail in that regard.
It is essential, therefore, that our risk culture supports our risk pro le and that we have visible and dedicated risk management leadership, both in the Boardroom and in executive management.
52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information I should take the opportunity here to advise that the Board has asked I described to you in my report last year how we had enhanced our internal control and risk management framework by creating a new Sir John Sunderland, who will have served on the Board for nine years in June 2014, to remain on the Board until the 2015 Annual General Board-level committee, the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee, charged with specific oversight of operational and Meeting.
This is for two very important reasons.
First, we would like to ensure continuity for the Board Remuneration Committee, which Sir conduct risks, reputational matters and our citizenship strategy.
As a result, 2013 saw a significant change in the nature and extent of the John so ably chairs, although we hope to be able to appoint a successor to Sir John in the near future.
Secondly, the Board Corporate Boards scrutiny of these increasingly important areas.
Financial risks credit, market and funding continued to be examined by the Board Governance and Nominations Committee has started to plan for succession to me as Chairman in due course and has asked Sir John, Financial Risk Committee and the Board Audit Committee continued to discharge its responsibilities for oversight of financial reporting, internal with his substantial experience of business leadership more widely as control and internal and external audit matters.
It is inevitable that well as that on the Board of Barclays, to lead that process.
The Board there is the potential for overlap across these Board Committees and considers that Sir John continues to demonstrate the essential we have sought to ensure that their respective responsibilities and characteristics of independence and that his independence will not be accountabilities are very clear.
impaired by his serving for over nine years.
We need also to ensure that rewards for our people are consistent with My report below on the activities of the Board Corporate Governance our values and do not incentivise inappropriate risk-taking or reward and Nominations Committee during 2013 describes in more detail our focus on short-term returns: the Board Remuneration Committee work on talent management and succession planning, both at Board developed and implemented changes to our remuneration structure in level and more widely in Barclays.
2013 to ensure that remuneration is closely linked to the achievement of sustainable performance and long-term value creation.
This is The right priorities reflected in high levels of deferral for senior management, tougher As Chairman, I am primarily concerned with ensuring that the Board is performance conditions attached to awards and adjustments for operating effectively and focusing its time, energy and attention on the current and historic risk, including the operation of malus.
Each year, the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its entire risk profile of Barclays together at Board level, we also created a own effectiveness and, since 2004, these evaluations have been Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee, whose role is to focus on a externally facilitated.
From the 2013 Board Effectiveness Review, the holistic view of Barclays risk appetite and risk profile and to seek to Board will agree a set of priorities, against which we will report identify potential future risk, or the unknown unknowns that may progress in future years.
Our aim will be to ensure that we, as a Board, emerge.
are doing the right things, in the right way and, in doing so, are setting the right example for Barclays and our industry as a whole.
Each of these Board Committees reports below on the material issues they examined during 2013.
The right people It is vital to Barclays long-term success that we have the right people, leadership skills and values in place.
Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the Boardroom.
Sir David Walker Chairman It is an essential part of my role, as Chairman, to ensure that the Board 3 March 2014 has the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience, perspectives and, most crucially, independence of thought and action.
There were a number of changes to the Board in 2013: Diane fide Saint Victor, Frits van Paasschen, Mike Ashley and Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board as non-executive Directors and Tushar Morzaria joined us as Group Finance Director.
In early 2014, Steve Thieke joined the Board as a non-executive Director.
We said farewell to Sir Andrew Likierman, who retired at the 2013 Annual General Meeting after nine years service: to Chris Lucas, who retired as Group Finance Director in August: and to David Booth, who retired at the end of 2013.
Fulvio Conti and Simon Fraser will retire from the Board at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, having served for eight and four years respectively and I would like to thank them on behalf of the Board for their commitment and contribution.
We have also seen changes in the chairmanship of two of the principal Board Committees with effect from 1 January 2014, with Mike Ashley succeeding Sir Michael Rake as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee and Tim Breedon succeeding David Booth as Chairman of the Board Financial Risk Committee.
I can also report that, as at the end of 2013, there were three women on the Barclays Board 20%, compared to one woman at the end of 2012 8% and this progress is in line with the commitments we made in our Board Diversity Policy.
You can find our Board Diversity Policy in the corporate governance section of Barclays website, Barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 53 Corporate governance report Board Governance Framework Board Governance Framework Barclays Board Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Board Corporate Board Financial Board Conduct, Board Audit Board Governance and Risk Committee Reputation and Committee Remuneration Nominations Operational Committee Committee Risk Committee The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees to assist it in carrying out its functions and to ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management.
Committee Role Board Enterprise Wide Risk Takes an enterprise-wide view of risks and controls and brings together the overall risk appetite and risk Committee profile of the business Board Audit Committee Takes a largely backward-looking view, focused on financial reporting and control issues, including overseeing any control issue remediation plans Board Conduct, Reputation and Takes a largely forward-looking view of conduct risk, operational risk and reputation risk, including Operational Risk Committee recommending the level of risk Barclays is prepared to take Board Financial Risk Committee Takes a largely forward-looking view of financial risk appetite and financial risk profile credit, market, liquidity and funding risk across Barclays Board Remuneration Committee Sets the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across Barclays and approves remuneration arrangements for executive directors and senior executives and individual remuneration awards Board Corporate Governance and Makes recommendations on Board and Board Committee composition and effectiveness, Board and Nominations Committee executive succession plans, talent management strategy and corporate governance Regulatory Investigations Committee In addition to the principal Board committees, the Regulatory Investigations Committee, which was formed in late 2012, met nine times in 2013.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to oversee certain regulatory investigations, to consider the findings of those investigations and to direct the scope and conduct of those investigations as appropriate, including directing and overseeing any remediation activities and considering whether any disciplinary action is required in respect of any Barclays employee.
Sir David Walker assumed chairmanship of the Committee in early 2013, succeeding Sir Michael Rake, who remains a member of the Committee.
The other Committee members are Mike Ashley, Diane fide Saint Victor, Antony Jenkins and Sir John Sunderland.
Board activity what is the role of the Board?
the Groups business and reputation, the materiality of the financial and The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering other risks inherent in the business and the relative costs and benefits sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups of implementing specific controls.
We determine the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver such long-term value, providing overall strategic The Board is also the decision-making body for all other matters of such direction within a framework of risk appetite and controls.
Our aim is to importance as to be of significance to the Group as a whole because of ensure that management strikes an appropriate balance between their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives.
We endeavour to demonstrate ethical leadership and promote the Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved for approval by Companys collective vision of the Companys purpose, values, culture the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, approval of and behaviours.
Each of the Directors must act in a way we consider, in risk appetite, capital and liquidity matters, major acquisitions, mergers good faith, would promote the success of the company for the benefit or disposals, Board membership, financial results and governance of the shareholders as a whole.
issues, including the approval of the corporate governance framework.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved to the Board can be found The Board is also responsible for ensuring that management maintain a on Barclays website, Barclays.
system of internal control which provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law We have set out the names of the Directors and their full biographical and regulation.
In addition, the Board is responsible for ensuring that details, including the skills and experience they each bring to the Board, management maintain an effective risk management and oversight on pages 83 to 85.
An explanation of the main roles on the Board is set process at the highest level across the Group.
In carrying out these out on page 55. responsibilities, the Board must have regard to what is appropriate for 54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Board Allocation of Time % All of our corporate governance practices have been bought together in one document, Corporate Governance in Barclays, 2013 2012 4 which is available online at barclays.
com corporategovernance 1 Strategy Formulation and Implementation Monitoring 41 39 2 Finance incl.
capital and liquidity 22 12 3 Governance & Risk 1 incl.
compensation 3 9 2 Scheduled meetings Scheduled meetings Additional meetings Additional meetings Board attendance Independent eligible to attend attended eligible to attend attended Sir David Walker, Group Chairman On appointment l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Executive Directors Antony Jenkins Executive Director l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Chris Lucas to 16 August 2013 Executive Director l l l l l l l l l l Tushar Morzaria from 15 October 2013 Executive Director l l l l Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley from 18 September 2013 Independent l l l l l l David Booth Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Tim Breedon Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Fulvio Conti Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Simon Fraser Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Reuben Jeffery Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Sir Andrew Likierman to 25 April 2013 Independent l l l l l l Wendy Lucas-Bull from 19 September 2013 Non-Independent l l l l l l Dambisa Moyo Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Frits van Paasschen from 1 August 2013 Independent l l l l l l Sir Michael Rake Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Diane fide Saint Victor from 1 March 2013 Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Sir John Sunderland Independent l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Lawrence Dickinson, Secretary l Scheduled meetings Additional Meetings unable to attend certain additional meetings held at short notice owing to prior business commitments unable to attend two scheduled meetings held owing to prior business commitments Roles on the Board Role Responsibilities Chairman of the Board Leads the Board including its operation and governance Builds an effective Board Sets the Board agenda in consultation with Chief Executive and Company Secretary Facilitates and encourages active engagement and appropriate challenge by Directors Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders and ensures members of the Board develop and maintain an understanding of the views of major investors Acts as Chairman of Board Corporate Governance and Nominations, Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk and Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committees.
Member of Board Remuneration Committee Group Chief Executive Recommends the Groups strategy to the Board Implements the Groups strategy Makes and implements operational decisions and manages the business day-to-day Non-executive Director Effectively and constructively challenges management and helps develop proposals on strategy Monitors the success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board Exercises appropriate oversight through scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives Deputy Chairman and Provides a sounding board for the Chairman Senior Independent Provides support for the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives Director Serves as a trusted intermediary for the Directors, when necessary Available to shareholders should the occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or Group Chief Executive Company Secretary Works closely with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the annual forward calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and its Committees Ensures timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior management barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 55 Corporate governance report Board Governance Framework continued How has the Board changed?
Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 19 The Board went through a period of planned refreshment during 2013, September 2013, bringing valuable direct banking experience, in with five new Directors joining and three retiring.
depth knowledge of banking in Africa and a good understanding of Conduct risk.
Wendy is chairman of Barclays Africa Group, which is We announced in early 2013 that Chris Lucas, our Group Finance majority owned by Barclays.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Director, planned to retire for health reasons and had agreed to remain Code suggests that such a business relationship should be in position until we found a suitable successor.
Being a key executive considered when determining a non-executive Directors Board position, it was vital that the search was thorough and we independence.
The Board considers that Wendy demonstrates the subsequently announced in July 2013 that Tushar Morzaria would join essential characteristics of independence expected by the Board and the Board as Group Finance Director.
An interim Group Finance set out in Barclays Charter of Expectations, but has decided not to designate her as an independent Director for the purposes of the Director was appointed in August 2013 to cover the period after Chris Lucass retirement was brought forward on health grounds and prior to Code.
The Board continues to be made up of a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
Tushar Morzarias arrival in October 2013.
In early 2014, we announced the appointment of Steve Thieke as a The Board is made up of a majority of independent non-executive Directors and we recognise the importance of ensuring that we have an non-executive Director.
His appointment brings to the Board significant experience in financial services, across regulation, investment banking appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity, as well as independence.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations and risk management, as well as substantial board level experience in both executive and non-executive roles.
Committee has identified the key skills and experience required for the Board to function effectively, which are recorded on a skills matrix.
This Given the number of new Directors that have joined our Board, it is vital sets out the core competencies, skills and diversity that are desired for the Board, including financial services, experienced chief executives that they are provided with an effective, tailored induction aimed at providing each of them with the information they need to know in from other industries and experience of the main geographical markets in which Barclays operates, together with target weightings for each.
order to become as effective as possible in the shortest time possible.
Our induction programmes are therefore designed to allow the new The extent to which each of these is represented on the Board is monitored by the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Director to build quickly: Committee on an on-going basis using the agreed skills matrix.
An understanding of the nature of Barclays, its business and the markets in which it operates and the opportunities and challenges for Using the skills matrix, and having considered likely future Board and each Business Division Board Committee requirements, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee identified specific areas in which the Board A link with Barclays people would benefit from additional experience.
All appointments to the An understanding of the relationships with Barclays main Board are made on merit, taking into account skills, experience, stakeholders, such as customers and clients, shareholders and independence and diversity, including gender.
The following regulators appointments were agreed by the Board in 2013: Diane fide Saint Victor joined the Board as a non-executive Director Our induction programmes typically comprise a series of meetings with with effect from 1 March 2013, bringing with her a wealth of the head of each of Barclays major business divisions and Group regulatory and legal experience, particularly in the US, and functions.
This allows the new Director to meet the business and geographic experience from Europe: function heads with responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy and to discuss specific matters affecting that business or Mike Ashleys appointment to the Board as a non-executive Director function.
On completion of the induction programme, the new Director was announced in April 2013.
This followed a search for a financial should have sufficient knowledge of the opportunities and challenges expert to strengthen the membership of the Board Audit Committee facing Barclays to enable them to fully contribute to the Boards following Sir Andrew Likiermans retirement at the AGM in April 2013 strategic discussions and oversight of the business.
The following is an and to provide succession for Sir Michael Rake as Chairman of that example of a typical induction programme: where a Director is joining a Committee.
Mike Ashley is a highly experienced former auditor, with Board Committee, either as a member or as Committee Chairman, this a valuable breadth of experience, including risk management and programme is supplemented by a specific, tailored Committee investment banking.
He joined the Board on 18 September 2013 and induction programme: succeeded Sir Michael Rake as Board Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 January 2014: Frits van Paasschen, who joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 1 August 2013, has extensive knowledge of the retail sector and brings a global outlook with specific geographic experience from the US, Europe and Africa.
He is a serving Chief Executive Officer, contributing a valuable strategic and commercial perspective: and 56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Executive Subject Matter Board diversity Group Chief Executive CEOs introduction All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the strategy and key priorities diversity required for an effective Board, including diversity of skills, Business Division Review of: experience, background and gender.
The aims set out in our Board Chief Executives Diversity Policy, published in April 2012, were to have 20% of the UK Retail and Business Banking Board made up of women by the end of 2013, and for that position businesses to have exceeded 25% by the end of 2015.
Our Board Diversity Corporate and Investment Banking Policy can be found on our website, Barclays.
businesses Corporate Banking business The independence of non-executive Directors is reviewed on an Barclaycard business annual basis as part of the Directors evaluation process, taking into Wealth and Investment Management account length of tenure, ability to provide objective challenge to businesses management and any relationships that might be considered as Europe, Middle East Retail and factors when determining independence.
Business Bank business Group Function Heads Briefings on: Balance of non-executive and executive Directors e. g. Group General Legal function Counsel, Chief Risk Risk function Officer Operations and Technology 1 2 12 Compliance and relationship with regulators Chairman Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Finance Group overview Internal Audit function Board gender balance Tax function Treasury function Male 12 Investor Relations HR function Strategy and Corporate development Female 3 Senior Statutory Areas of audit focus Auditor Length of tenure of Chairman and non-executive Directors Group Corporate Briefing on Citizenship and Brand and Relations Director Marketing 0-3 years 7 Company Secretary Role and responsibilities as a Director 3-6 years 3 In addition to induction on joining the Board or a Board Committee, a programme of briefings for all non-executive Directors is arranged each year in order to deepen their understanding of specific business or 6-9 years 3 technical issues.
During 2013, briefings were held on Barclays Equities, Fixed Income, Currencies and Commodities and Africa businesses, and the Board Financial Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee held a joint briefing session on Pillar 3 Reporting.
Geographical mix of Chairman and non-executive Directors United Kingdom 6 What has been the Boards role in Transform?
The Code makes clear the principle that the Board should set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and Continental Europe 2 human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
Our approach as a Board in support of this principle is to challenge and test proposals on strategy United States 3 put forward by the Chief Executive and, following a decision by the Board on the policy or strategy to be adopted, offer full empowerment to the executive Directors to then implement that strategy, subject to Other 2 continuing oversight from the Board.
Transform is our strategy for both improved financial performance and cultural change.
In the fourth quarter of 2012, Barclays embarked on a a Industry background experience strategic review, covering business performance, costs, funding and liquidity and purpose, values and behaviours, the outcomes of which Number of directors Experience were debated and endorsed by the Board in early 2013.
In approving 8 Financial services the strategy, the Board examined the results of the business portfolio 7 Political regulatory contacts review, which analysed each business both from a financial and 8 Current or recent Chairman CEO reputational perspective, and evaluated proposals for reducing costs 3 Accountancy financial expert and risk weighted assets and for maintaining our capital, funding and 3 International US liquidity positions.
We also assessed proposed strategies for 5 International Europe embedding cultural change, for changing the reward structure and for 3 International RoW strengthening the control environment.
The proposed strategy 2 Retail marketing translated into a series of non-financial and financial commitments, a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories which were announced in February 2013. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 57 Corporate governance report Board Governance Framework continued In terms of implementation, each element of the Transform What was the outcome of the 2013 Board Effectiveness Review and programme is supported by specific project workstreams, led by what are the Boards priorities for 2014?
For example, the Controls workstream is The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee headed by the Head of Compliance and the Business Portfolio Review engaged a new external facilitator, Bvalco, for the 2013 Board workstream is headed by the Financial Controller.
Over the course of Effectiveness Review.
Bvalco provide independent, formal and rigorous 2013, the Board regularly scrutinised the progress being made by each Board review services.
I explain our reasons for appointing a new workstream and tracked performance against the commitments made, facilitator in my Board Corporate Governance and Nominations to satisfy itself that implementation remained on track and that the Committee Chairmans report on pages 75 and 76. commitments will be met.
The review took the form of a short questionnaire followed by You can read more about the progress of the Transform programme in interviews with each of the Directors, members of our Executive the Strategic Report.
Committee and a number of our major shareholders.
The evaluation covered the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, in particular its What has the Board done to improve governance in light of the Salz contribution to business strategy and culture, the effectiveness of Review recommendations?
Board Committees and Board composition.
Peer to peer feedback was In early April 2013, the report of the Salz Review into business practices also sought for each of the Directors.
A representative from Bvalco at Barclays was published.
This review was commissioned by the Board attended our December 2013 Board and Board Financial Risk Committee in July 2012 in the immediate aftermath of the publication of the LIBOR meetings as an observer, in order to see first-hand the dynamics in the settlements.
Boardroom and the effectiveness of the meetings.
In addition, Bvalco had access to Board and Board Committee papers for 2013.
The Salz Review was commissioned to examine Barclays values, principles and standards of operation the historical culture and to Representatives from Bvalco presented to the Board in early 2014 on make recommendations for change.
In April 2013, the Board examined the findings of the Board Effectiveness Review and the each of the 34 recommendations made by the Salz Review and recommendations arising.
From the Boards discussion of the reviews committed to implementing them.
We published our initial response in findings, the following areas for action were agreed: late April 2013.
The majority of the recommendations have been aligned to the Transform programme workstreams being implemented Board priorities: we agreed that we would better articulate the by management, with the recommendations on Board governance Boards 2014 priorities, as opposed to the business priorities, and forming a distinct workstream that is being implemented by the Board.
reflect these in Board and Committee agendas: In terms of Board governance, some of the main actions we have The Boards role in culture and cultural change: we agreed that taken are: attending a Barclays Values workshop would form part of the Implemented a new framework for the Board-level governance of induction programme for new non-executive Directors and that risk, with the creation of the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee arrangements would be made for existing non-executive Directors to and Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee: attend a workshop.
We also agreed that we would ensure that, in addition to the regular reports to the Board Conduct, Reputation and Increased the minimum time commitment expected of Board Operational Risk Committee, the Board as a whole would be kept Committee Chairmen to 25-30 days per annum on top of their directly informed on the progress of implementing cultural change: minimum Director commitment of 30-36 days.
The expected time commitments for Board committee members are set out in Barclays Leveraging the Boards experience to support the Executive Charter of Expectations, which is available at Barclays.
In Committee: we agreed we would create extra time for more practice, Directors typically commit in excess of the minimum wide-ranging strategic discussions between the Board and Executive requirements: Committee members: Developed a programme for non-executive Directors to engage with Greater awareness of the work of Board Committees: we agreed to each business: and give more time, on a rolling basis, to Board Committee reporting to the Board, to allow all Directors to gain a deeper understanding of Focused on improving the quality and timeliness of information the workings of each Board Committee and their forward agendas: presented to the Board and its Committees.
Improvements to the Board appointments process: given the number You can read more about the progress that has been made in of recent changes to the Board, we agreed to ensure that all Board implementing the Salz Review recommendations on pages126 to 129. members are kept fully informed of prospective candidates and potential appointments: and Director induction: we agreed to improve the on-boarding process for new Directors, including partnering new Directors, if appropriate, with longer-serving Board members.
The Chairman has discussed with individual Directors any specific training or development needs arising from the review.
A report on the actions taken in response to the findings of our 2012 Board Effectiveness Review can be found on page 60.
58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Governance in action Deciding to raise equity capital via a fully underwritten rights issue A significant event for the Board in 2013 was the decision to raise equity capital via a rights issue.
Once the PRA had introduced a 3% leverage ratio expectation and had requested that Barclays meet that expectation by 30 June 2014, a number of Board meetings were held over a short space of time in order to discuss a range of potential options presented by management that aimed to reduce leverage.
The Board examined these options and considered their potential impact on Barclays business model, customers and clients, shareholders and the wider UK economy, as well as the likely views of the PRA, before deciding on a course of action.
The timeline below illustrates how the Board committed the time to discuss collectively this significant development: when information flowed up to the Board to enable it to evaluate the potential options for achieving the leverage ratio: how the Board came to agreement on the plan and supported management in its execution: and how the Board satisfied itself, to the best of its members knowledge and belief, as to the adequacy of the disclosures made by Barclays.
In addition to the formal Board meetings, as Chairman I kept in close contact with Board members to ensure that they were kept informed of progress.
The Board was acutely aware of the importance of taking all reasonable care to ensure that the rights issue prospectus disclosed all matters that a potential purchaser of Barclays shares might be reasonably expected to find relevant.
To support the Board, Christopher Saul of solicitors Slaughter and May, was appointed as an additional independent adviser to provide guidance on matters relating to Barclays, its business or the business environment more generally that, in his experience and having regard to capital markets practice, the Board should particularly take into account in approving the prospectus and any areas or matters in the prospectus on which the Board should particularly focus to satisfy itself as to the adequacy of disclosure.
Christopher Saul held a number of meetings with various individual Directors and senior executives in advance of presenting to the Board on his assessment of the processes followed to prepare the prospectus, the issues likely to be of key interest to investors in choosing to take up their rights and how those issues were covered in the prospectus, in particular the disclosure of risk factors and dividend policy.
This was in addition to the usual diligence and verification processes and advice received from the Groups existing legal and other advisers and internal teams.
The rights issue was launched in mid-September 2013 and closed in early October 2013, with acceptances representing 94.63% of the new shares offered to shareholders.
June July August September Mid June: Board debated Mid July: Given subsequent Throughout: discussions Early Sept: Board examined the indications from the PRA of the discussions with the PRA, the between various individual Board disclosures in the draft rights capital, liquidity and leverage Board examined a range of options Directors and senior executives issue prospectus, with the expectations it had of Barclays, presented by the Group Executive and Christopher Saul: benefit of advice from following its assessment of Committee for achieving the opportunity for Board Directors Christopher Saul.
major UK banks and building leverage ratio by 30 June 2014. to review iterations of the draft societies, and the initial potential rights issue prospectus.
options and timetable for meeting those expectations.
Mid June: Board undertook a Late July: Board evaluated the Mid Sept: Rights Issue components of a plan the Leverage Committee approved the rights preliminary evaluation of the range of initial potential options Plan, which included a potential issue documents.
The Board approved a for achieving the expected leverage ratio, including rights issue in principle and established and delegated authority assessing the likely impact on Barclays business model, to a Rights Issue Committee, comprising five Directors, including customers and clients and the wider economy and possible the Chairman, Deputy Chairman shareholder reaction to the PRAs and Group Chief Executive, to give expected announcement.
final approval and finalise the terms.
20 June: PRA announcement Late July: Rights Issue Committee 16 Sept: Rights issue launched.
regarding UK banks capital and approved the decision to launch a Barclays initial public response rights issue.
to the new 3% leverage ratio expectation.
30 July: Barclays announced its intention to raise approximately 5.8bn via a fully underwritten rights issue, as part of the Leverage Plan.
The PRA announced that, based on Barclays projections, the Leverage Plan was a credible plan to meet the target.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 59 Corporate governance report Board Governance Framework continued A summary of the Boards progress against the actions arising from the 2012 Board Effectiveness Review is set out below: Theme Action Taken Enhancing the relationship Given the changes in Board and Executive Committee composition, a programme has been developed for between the Board and the 2014 that will allow the non-executive Directors to spend more time with business CEOs and their Executive Committee following management teams.
In addition, Board meetings were held in New York and Johannesburg during 2013, changes in both Board and which allowed the Board greater opportunity to see operations at first-hand and to meet and interact with Executive Committee the respective management teams.
composition in 2012 Ensuring that the working The working relationship was assessed by the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee relationship between the during 2013.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Sir Michael Rake, also monitored the Chairman and CEO is strong relationship and sought feedback from non-executive Directors ahead of his annual review of the Chairmans in recognition of the critical performance.
importance of this relationship to the effectiveness of the Board as a whole Ensuring that the Board has Non-executive Directors, in particular, Committee Chairmen, have held meetings with representatives from greater line of sight into the our main regulators in the UK, US and South Africa.
Presentations from our regulators in the UK and US were views of key stakeholders also made to Board meetings.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive regularly updated the Board on any discussions held with regulators and other key stakeholders.
In particular, the Board was kept updated on stakeholder views with regard to the Leverage Plan and associated rights issue.
Rebuilding trust with An extensive programme of stakeholder engagement on remuneration matters took place in 2013 and has stakeholders with regard to continued into early 2014, including on the Groups response to the remuneration aspects of CRD IV.
Barclays remuneration policy, particularly in light of voting at the 2012 AGM Ensuring that an appropriate A number of changes were made to the Board during 2013, with the appointment of new non-executive balance of skills, experience Directors.
These are described fully elsewhere in this report.
and diversity on the Board is maintained Further improving the quality Changes have been made to the form and content of material presented to the Board and Board Committees of information flows to the to ensure that the material focuses on key issues.
Greater use has been made of the Boards electronic portal Board to achieve an to provide any detailed supporting data.
Feedback has been sought from Board members on the form and appropriate balance between content of specific papers so that any further improvements could be made.
data and analysis Enhancing succession planning Succession planning for the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees has been an area of focus in 2013, for key Board positions, in with new Chairmen appointed to the Board Audit Committee and Board Financial Risk Committee.
The particular, continuing to ensure Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has focused on talent management, as described that the Board builds its later in this report.
To help the Board build its awareness of the depth of talent in the business a series of knowledge and understanding talent receptions were also held in London, New York and Johannesburg.
of the depth of talent in the business How does the Board satisfy itself that it understands the views of Our Investors both private and institutional stakeholders?
Private Shareholders The Board recognises that what Barclays achieves is only made We have a large number of private shareholders and are constantly possible by effective relationships with investors, customers and clients, striving to improve the service we provide.
During 2013 we worked to employees and regulators.
We are eager to ensure that we understand deliver our 2013 Private Shareholder Relations strategy, with the their views and concerns and also that we are able to effectively objective of making shareholders lives easier where possible.
All our communicate our strategy, enabling us to come to a mutual shareholder documents are in Plain English and we aim to ensure that understanding of respective objectives.
Below are some examples of they are easy to understand and engaging.
There is also a wide range how we have sought to do that with our key stakeholder groups during of information for shareholders available on our website, Barclays.
We maintain a dedicated Barclays Shareholder Helpline so that In order to promote effective and open communication with shareholders can easily contact our Registrar if they have a question shareholders, we have published shareholder communication about their shareholding.
In order to ensure that our Registrar provides guidelines on our website, which can be accessed at Barclays.
com the highest quality of service to our shareholders, we monitor their investorrelations.
performance at a monthly review meeting using service reports.
60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Institutional Investors Throughout 2013, we continued to actively encourage shareholders to sign up to Barclays e-view, which is an online portal that allows I met regularly in 2013 with our larger shareholders to hear their views on corporate governance matters, including remuneration, Board shareholders to manage their shareholding.
We believe that communicating electronically with our shareholders ensures that they composition and specific AGM resolutions.
Sir John Sunderland, Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee, and Lawrence receive regular, up to date information directly to their inbox.
We send emails to all Barclays e-view members each time we publish our results Dickinson, Company Secretary, also met regularly with larger shareholders and investor bodies to discuss remuneration matters.
and provide details about the dividend, including links to Barclays.
com where they can find more information.
Barclays e-view members can Feedback from these meetings was provided to the Board and appropriate Board Committees.
instantly update their personal and bank details online.
They can also view their share sales or purchases, vote online and download their electronic dividend tax voucher s. The Board was kept regularly updated on investors views.
Copies of analyst reports on Barclays were made available to the Board on a Ahead of the 2013 AGM we updated and amended our Shareholder regular basis and Directors were invited to attend results conference Voting Instruction Card, which is sent to shareholders who request calls and investor presentations.
A weekly communication from the notification that our Annual Report and Notice of Meeting is available Group Chief Executive to the Board included an update on investor online, to include an attendance card.
This enabled those shareholders sentiment and share price performance.
In addition, as part of strategy who received the card and who also wished to attend the AGM to discussions during 2013, the Board was briefed by an external adviser quickly and efficiently register on the day itself.
This improved our on how Barclays is viewed by institutional shareholders as an shareholder registration process and was positively received by investment proposition.
Barclays Investor Relations is dedicated to managing relationships with We are aware that some shareholders do not keep their personal details institutional equity and debt investors.
During 2013 approximately half on the Barclays share register up-to-date.
Starting in 2012, we of our shareholder engagement involved executive management conducted a tracing exercise to reunite over 24,000 Barclays Sharestore including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or other members, identified by our Registrar as having lost contact with us, senior divisional management from across the Group.
We also with their shares and unclaimed dividends.
I am pleased to confirm enhanced the way in which we engaged with these stakeholders in the that at the end of March 2013, we had returned over 2m in dividends following ways: to shareholders.
We plan to run an exercise on the ordinary share Established a New York based Investor Relations team to promote register during 2014 where we hope to trace 10,000 shareholders with more regular communication with North American investors: over 5m in unclaimed dividends.
Expanded our programme of debt investor meetings and established I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for a fixed income results conference call for debt investors and analysts helping us to make two donations to charity in 2013.
We donated over at our full year and interim results: and 40,000 to ABF The Soldiers Charity and over 89,000 to UNICEF.
We Increased the frequency of our dialogue with our shareholders ensured that we notified shareholders about these successes in our through a global engagement programme of over 800 meetings September and December 2013 dividend mailings.
You can find out across equity and debt investors.
more about these donations in the Shareholder Information section in the Annual Report.
Other stakeholders Our main regulators in the UK and US interact on a regular basis with AGM me and with the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and The AGM is a unique opportunity to engage with our shareholder the Chairmen of the principal Board Committees.
This provides us with population as a whole, particularly our private shareholders, and we are a first-hand view of regulatory matters.
During 2013, more than 30 committed to making constructive use of it to meet with you, hear your meetings involving me and individual non-executive Directors were views and answer your questions.
I was available at the AGM, held on held with representatives of our UK and US regulators, including 13 Thursday 25 April 2013, to answer your questions, as were the meetings that I attended.
Any significant matters discussed in those Chairmen of our Board Committees.
I very much enjoy speaking to you meetings were reported to the Board or Board Committees as more informally before and after the meeting, and I hope that those of appropriate.
you I was able to speak with at our 2013 AGM also found it interesting and informative.
During 2013, the Board was updated on customer and client metrics, including Net Promoter Scores, customer satisfaction rankings and In accordance with best practice, all resolutions at the 2013 AGM were complaint levels.
The Group Chief Executive also reported regularly to considered on a poll, which was conducted by the Registrar and the Board on meetings held with customers and clients.
monitored by an independent scrutineer.
The results, along with proxy votes lodged prior to the meeting, were made available on our website Ensuring employees are well-informed, feel connected and understand on the same day.
The votes cast at the meeting represented 61-68% of our culture and objectives is vital if we are to deliver long-term value for all the shares in issue and all resolutions were approved.
We build trust and seek feedback through regular two-way communications, both informally, through events The 2014 AGM will be held on Thursday 24 April 2014 at the Royal such as internal forums and jams and formally, through our Employee Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of AGM can be found in a separate Opinion Surveys.
The outputs from these events and the results of document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before the Employee Opinion Surveys are reported to the Board by the Chief meeting.
The Notice of AGM and the accompanying circular, which Executive.
This helps us understand our colleagues views and sets out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed at the concerns when shaping future organisational direction.
meeting, can also be found at Barclays.
The resolutions will again be considered on a poll and the results will be announced via the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website on the same day.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting via Barclays.
They may also submit questions to the Board by writing to Shareholder Relations at 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 61 Corporate governance report Board Audit Committee Board Audit Committee Report Ultimately, our activity is designed to support our over-riding purpose, which is to protect the interests of you, our shareholders.
Mike Ashley Chairman, Board Audit Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at Dear Shareholders Barclays.
com corporategovernance I became Chairman of the Board Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2014, having been a member since joining the Barclays Board last September.
I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir Michael Rake, for his assured leadership of the Committee since becoming Chairman in 2009.
The report below describes how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during the last year, setting out the signi cant issues examined by the Committee in terms of assessing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, the effectiveness of internal controls and the performance of the auditors, both internal and external.
Ultimately, our activity is designed to support our over-riding purpose, which is to protect the interests of you, our shareholders.
Our aim is to act with the right levels of diligence to assure ourselves that appropriate and prudent judgments have been made with regard to financial reporting, that the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the companys financial position and that the independent scrutiny by the auditors on behalf of our owners is both objective and effective.
Barclays is a large and complex business that is undergoing a period of Committee composition substantial change, driven internally by the Transform programme and Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is externally by continuing developments in the regulatory environment.
set out below: In 2014 our focus will be on ensuring that the effectiveness of our control environment keeps pace with this level of change: that we Meetings attended eligible continue to exercise appropriate judgment on signi cant financial Member to attend reporting matters and report in a fair, balanced and transparent way: Sir Michael Rake Chairman to 31 December 2013 Mike Ashley from 18 September 2013 Chairman and that our independent assurance mechanisms internal and from 1 January 2014 external audit continue to perform effectively and ef ciently to Tim Breedon from 1 March 2013 protect shareholders interests.
Fulvio Conti Simon Fraser Sir Andrew Likierman to 25 April 2013 Mike Ashley Diane fide Saint Victor from 1 December 2013 Chairman, Board Audit Committee Attended Did not attend 3 March 2014 Unable to attend meetings owing to prior business commitments Board Audit Committee Allocation of Time % 2013 2012 6 1 1 Control Issues 16 13 2 Financial Results 40 31 5 3 Internal Audit Matters 8 14 4 External Audit Matters 11 6 5 Business Control Environment 16 14 6 Other including Governance 4 and Compliance 8 22 2 3 62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information systems supporting the financial reporting processes can be relied Role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: upon.
The Committee was satisfied, given the results of the testing of the compensating controls, that the integrity of the financial control assessing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and environment was appropriate.
satisfying itself that any significant financial judgments made by management are sound: Another major component of the financial reporting process concerns the key assumptions and estimates or judgments that inevitably have evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including internal financial controls: and to be made.
Ahead of publication of the half-year and full-year results, the Committee examined in detail the main judgments and scrutinising the activities and performance of the internal and assumptions made by management.
It also considered whether, in external auditors, including monitoring their independence and those areas where accounting policy choices might be made, objectivity.
appropriate policies had been selected.
The Committee focused on the following areas at the full-year, having covered similar matters at the Committee composition half-year, including seeking the views of the external auditor on the There were a number of changes to Committee composition in 2013. judgments made: Tim Breedon, Mike Ashley and Diane fide Saint Victor joined the Committee and Sir Andrew Likierman left the Committee on retiring Customer redress provisions, in particular PPI and interest rate from the Board.
Sir Michael Rake retired from the Committee on hedging products redress provisions, were an area of focus for the 31 December 2013 and was succeeded as Chairman by Mike Ashley with Committee in 2013 and you can read more below about the effect from 1 January 2014.
Fulvio Conti and Simon Fraser will retire from Committees role in evaluating and challenging the assumptions the Committee on 24 April 2014, when they retire from the Board.
During underlying the provisions for PPI redress.
Full details of the provisions 2013, Sir Michael Rake and, until his retirement, Sir Andrew Likierman, taken in 2013 can be found on page 332: were the designated financial experts on the Committee for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have been succeeded in this by Mike Another significant area of judgment for the financial statements Ashley, although each member of the Committee has financial and or arises in the valuation and disclosure of financial instruments held by financial services experience.
You can find more details of the experience the Corporate and Investment Bank, in particular, derivative assets of Committee members in their biographies on pages 83 to 85. and certain Exit Quadrant portfolios.
The Committee was especially interested in assets where there is a lack of an active secondary The Committees work market and limited trade activity, as the lack of observability results in The Committee met 13 times in 2013, including a separate meeting valuation uncertainty.
Consequently, the Committee examined the specifically in February 2013 on PPI provisions and two additional internal price verification processes, whereby methodologies are meetings to consider restated financial statements, reflecting the benchmarked against any observable traded prices, practices introduction of new accounting standards, prior to their publication.
adopted by peers and other relevant pricing information.
In particular, The chart opposite shows how the Committee allocated its time during owing to the lack of any secondary market and limited, if any, recent 2013.
Committee meetings were attended by management, including origination experience, the Committee scrutinised the valuation of the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal the Education, Social Housing and Local Authority ESHLA loan Auditor, Chief Risk Officer and General Counsel, as well as portfolio, which is held at fair value based on internal assessments of representatives from the businesses and other functions.
After due challenge and debate, the Committee audit partner of the external auditor attended each meeting and the satisfied itself as to the governance underpinning the valuation Committee held regular private sessions with the Chief Internal Auditor process and that the assumptions made were appropriate.
In view of and the lead auditor partner, which were not attended by management.
the absence of recent trading and the sensitivity of the valuation to alternative plausible assumptions, the Committee fully supported the Significant financial statement reporting issues transfer of this portfolio to level 3 categorisation and the associated With support and input from the external auditor, the Committee disclosures.
Full details of financial instruments held can be found on assessed the financial reporting processes, whether suitable page 304: accounting policies had been adopted, whether management had The Committee scrutinised credit impairment charges on loans and made appropriate estimates and judgments and whether disclosures in advances.
The main judgments arose around the timing of the published financial reports were balanced and fair.
recognition of any impairment and estimating the size, particularly where forbearance has been granted.
The Committee examined the The integrity of the financial statements is underpinned by the control underlying drivers of impairment in each business and any postenvironment pertaining to the production of the financial reports.
In model adjustments, including the process by which the Risk function this regard, the Committee considered the results of the Groups had identified areas where adjustments needed to be made in order Turnbull assessments, its Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal control process to satisfy itself that the credit impairment provisions were and the absence of any indications of fraud relating to financial appropriate.
As part of its assessment, the Committee was also reporting matters.
The Committee also satisfied itself that there were briefed on impairment methodologies.
Full details of credit appropriate verification standards and processes by which senior impairment charges for 2013 can be found on page 291: management attested to the accuracy of the factual content and a process to support the representations made by the Board to the The Committee examined the significant judgmental items in the external auditors.
It did this by debating the outputs from the calculation of the tax rate.
The judgments covered the adequacy of tax Disclosure Committees review of the financial statements, including an provisions for matters that remain outstanding with the relevant tax assessment of disclosure controls and procedures, and by asking authorities with regard to transactions from prior periods and deferred management to explain and evidence the basis on which the tax assets DTA in Spain and the US.
In relation to the former, the representations to the auditors were made.
The Disclosure Committee Committee had regard to the status of negotiations with key tax is a management committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, authorities and assessed the drivers underlying the tax risk and the which considers the content, accuracy and tone of the disclosures, associated provisions, to satisfy itself that the coverage levels of the reporting its conclusions to the Group Executive Committee and the provisions were appropriate given the range of possible outcomes.
The Committee also considered reports from In relation to DTA, the Committee noted that managements business the internal and external auditor relating to these aspects.
In addition, forecasts supported the recovery other than in relation to Spain.
The the Committee discussed control issues in the IT environment, which Committee therefore agreed with managements recommendation are subject to remediation plans.
Additional measures have been taken, to write down the DTA in Spain.
Full details of the tax rate and tax including compensating controls, to ensure that the controls over the provision for 2013 can be found on page 294: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 63 Corporate governance report Board Audit Committee continued Revisions to IAS 19 became effective from 1 January 2013, which require actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit Governance in action pension schemes to be recognised in full.
Consequently, the Customer redress provisions: PPI Committee examined the impact of IAS 19R on the Groups balance A significant area of judgment remains the estimation of provisions sheet and the revised presentation in the financial statements.
The to be made for Payment Protection Insurance PPI and Interest Committee agreed that managements assumptions underlying the Rate Hedging Products IRHP customer redress.
pension valuation were appropriate: The Committee assessed the impact of new accounting standards on Throughout 2013, the Committee continued to exercise scrutiny Barclays published financial statements.
It agreed and approved over the level of customer redress provisioning, in particular the restated financial statements for 2011 and 2012 reflecting the provisions for PPI redress.
Ahead of approving the half-year results, implementation of IAS19R and IFRS10 in April 2013.
Prior to and in with regard to PPI redress the Committee examined a report setting connection with the rights issue, the Committee also agreed and out the provisions booked and utilised and the balance remaining.
It approved in late August 2013 the restatement of the financial assessed range-based estimates for future provision utilisation, statements included in Barclays 20F filing for 2012 to reflect the likely future costs and potential provision increases, based on implementation, as appropriate, of IAS19 and IFRS10 and also IFRS8 projected volumes of claims, recent trends in claims experience, and IFRS7 for 2010 in addition to 2011 and 2012.
The external auditor uphold rates i. e. valid claims found in favour of the customer and re-signed the audit report in respect of the September 2013 the average amount of redress paid, per policy.
The assessment also restatement: factored in the possible impact of proactive mailing campaigns, the expected costs of referrals to the Financial Ombudsman Service In considering any potential impairment of goodwill, the Committee FOS and potential remediation costs associated with issues arising focused on managements track record in forecasting cashflows and from historical redress decisions.
The impact on assumptions the appropriateness of the discount rates used.
Having assessed a resulted in a recommendation by management to increase the level report on the results of impairment testing and the key assumptions of provisions held by 1.35bn to 3.95bn, which, having examined adopted in the calculation of the recoverable amounts, the the underlying data and discussed the appropriateness of the Committee agreed that goodwill arising from the businesses increased provision with the external auditor, the Committee acquired in a previous period by Wealth and Investment Management endorsed.
The Committee also considered whether the trends in should be written off: and data supported the assumptions in its review of the interim The Committee debated material judgments relating to litigation management statement for the third quarter of 2013. provisions, reviewing the status of current cases and taking into account recent developments, including any settlements by peers of In connection with the 2013 full-year results the Committee similar cases, in order to arrive at an appropriate level of provisioning, assessed the amount of unutilised provisions against key which it recommended to the Board.
assumptions for potential future claims experience, FOS referrals and remediation costs.
It also considered the mix of claims originating In relation to the financial reports overall: directly from customers and from Claims Management Companies.
Although the flow of claim volumes continues to be unpredictable, The Committee evaluated whether the going concern basis of the Committee concluded, based on its examination of the available accounting was appropriate by assessing the Working Capital Report information, that no additional provision was required at the 2013 prepared by management.
This report covered the liquidity position full-year.
As part of its review, the Committee also considered the and forecast capital ratios, balance sheet and leverage position.
proposed disclosure of the forecast assumptions used in the The report incorporated known or expected regulatory changes, the provision calculation and details of the sensitivity analysis performed impact of possible stress scenarios and details of the performance of on future expected claims, in order to satisfy itself that the early warning indicators.
After examining the forecast, the Committee disclosures were open and transparent.
Further reviews of PPI claims concluded that the liquidity and capital position of the Group experience will be undertaken during 2014 to monitor trends and remained appropriate and that there were no material uncertainties: ensure that the provision remains appropriate.
The Committee examined the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements and was specifically tasked by the Board to advise it on whether the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee did this by satisfying itself that there was a robust process of review and challenge at different levels within the Group to ensure balance and consistency.
In doing so, the Committee examined the outputs of these processes, which included reports from the Disclosure Committee on its assessment of the content, accuracy and balance of the disclosures and of the outputs from the Groups Legal & Technical Committee, and also had the opportunity to directly question the Chief Executive on the overall messages and tone of his review and the Annual Report.
The Committee also considered other information regarding the Groups performance presented to the Board during the period.
After challenge and debate and consideration of all relevant information, the Committee concluded that it could recommend to the Board that the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable: and The Committee evaluated the judgments made regarding adjusting items as presented in the performance highlights section of the interim and full-year results announcements and in the Annual Report.
These were items that were significant or one-off in nature and included the own credit gain and provisions for customer redress.
The Committee also considered the impact of the costs to achieve Transform.
64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Internal control Further details of the Groups system of internal control and risk The Committee is responsible for examining the effectiveness of the management, including the main features of the internal control and Groups internal controls.
In 2013, the Committees main activities in risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process, discharging that responsibility were as follows: are included in the Directors Report on pages 80 and 81 and in the Risk Management Report on pages 377 to 422.
Discussed, on a regular basis, any control issues of Group-level significance and the progress of the remediation plans in place to Internal audit address them.
A particular area of focus for the Committee in 2013 The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and was the pace of delivery of remediation plans and how realistic and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In 2013 the Committee achievable the timetables and milestones are given the number of discharged that responsibility as follows: change programmes in place across the Group under the Transform programme.
The Committee was particularly concerned where Approved the Internal Audit Charter, which is attached to the remediation plans are dependent on technology enhancements, as Committees terms of reference: the complexity of the IT infrastructure and demands on technology Discussed and approved changes to the Internal Audit methodology: resources can lead to delays in implementation.
The Committee emphasised to management the need for remediation programmes Agreed the internal audit plan for 2013, including budget and to be adequately resourced, with consistent leadership, and to be resources, and assessed the plan on a regular basis, including any focused on implementing robust, automated solutions to strengthen changes proposed to the scope of work and the level of resourcing preventative controls, rather than just short-term manual tactical available, satisfying itself that these remained appropriate: fixes.
The Committee has urged management to ensure that scarce Discussed regular reports from the Chief Internal Auditor, which set resources are prioritised appropriately and will be monitoring this out the Internal Audit functions view of the control environment and aspect closely going forward: performance against any key indicators.
In particular, where the Chief Assessed reports on the control environment in Europe Retail and Internal Auditors view of the control environment differed from Business Banking, UK Retail and Business Banking, Investment Bank, managements self assessment, the Committee probed for more detail Africa, Operations & Technology and Wealth, hearing directly from in order to understand the underlying reasons for the difference and the heads of those businesses and functions.
The Committees aim whether managements risk and control assessments were robust.
In is to review each business area over an 18 month to 2 year cycle.
In future, in addition to an assessment of the control environment, addition to understanding managements view of any control issues, Internal Audits assessment of each business will also include an the Committee was keen to understand the pace and progress of assessment of managements own identification of control issues: cultural change in each business and the tone being set from the top: Tracked the progress of the Transform workstream on governance Examined a report from the Chief Internal Auditor on the Internal and controls, which was led by the Chief Internal Auditor and which Audit functions assessment of Barclays business continuity plans.
aims to introduce a clearer risk management framework with greater The Committee was satisfied with the progress made to achieve a clarity of management responsibility: minimum capability and reviewed managements plans to reduce Debated the findings of an external evaluation of the performance of further the risk exposure.
It encouraged management to ensure that the Internal Audit function, which confirmed that the Internal Audit these plans were delivered in a timely fashion: function is effective and respected by senior management.
The Chief Evaluated the progress being made on remediation activity relating Internal Auditor was not present for this discussion: and to LIBOR, which included an external review as required by the Held private sessions with the Chief Internal Auditor and the lead Commodity Futures Trading Commissions Order.
The Committee audit partner and latterly solely with the Chief Internal Auditor, in the also examined the progress of work to improve the controls around absence of management, to enable the Chief Internal Auditor to raise other benchmarks and market information provided to third parties, any issues directly.
including the introduction of independent reviews of submissions.
11 non-interest rate benchmarking processes were exited in 2013: Assessing external audit effectiveness, appointing the auditor and Examined, on a regular basis, the progress being made to implement safeguarding auditor objectivity and independence specific action plans first introduced in 2011 to enhance the control The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, environment in Barclays US businesses.
The Committee noted that objectivity and independence of the external auditor, progress was being made but pressed management to ensure that  PwC.
In 2013 the Committees main milestones are achieved and that the demand for IT and Finance activities in discharging that responsibility were as follows: resource is appropriately met: Agreed the audit plan with PwC, ensuring materiality and scope were Was updated on the number and nature of any whistleblowing appropriate and agreeing the particular areas of audit focus.
The intense focus on culture and values has generated an included ensuring that there were appropriate levels of synergy with increase in the number of whistleblowing reports, all of which were the Internal Audit plan: investigated.
The Committee noted that there was scope for Discussed PwCs approach to materiality following publication of the improving the whistleblowing process: and FRCs report in December 2013 on the guidelines used by the major Continued to assess on a regular basis the progress being made to audit firms and, in particular, considered the criteria which had led address key regulatory compliance control issues, including client them to conclude on their overall materiality: assets, know your customer and customer due diligence, anti money Settled the terms of the engagement letter and approved, on behalf laundering, financial crime and fraud.
The Committees focus was on of the Board, the fees payable for the audit: ensuring that the governance and controls are appropriate and challenging the pace of the remediation programmes to ensure that all key milestones are met.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 65 Corporate governance report Board Audit Committee continued Held private sessions with the lead audit partner and the Chief External audit tender Internal Auditor and latterly solely with the lead audit partner, in The Committee is very mindful of investor sentiment regarding order to discuss any matters directly with the lead audit partner in external audit firm tendering and rotation and of course the the absence of management: changes to the Code in 2012 recommending that the external audit Considered the Audit Quality Inspection Report on PwC for is tendered at least every ten years.
In addition, 2014 is likely to see 2012 2013, issued by the FRC in May 2013 in order to be satisfied new regulation in this area both from the UK Competition that the general quality of the audit work conducted by PwC is of a Commission implementing its decision to mandate tendering at high standard and that any prior year findings have been acted upon: least every ten years and the European Union requiring audit firm rotation at least every 20 years.
The Committee has therefore spent Questioned PwC on the actions it has continued to take to address time in 2013 and the early part of 2014 discussing a potential tender matters raised in recent regulatory reviews.
The Committee was for the external audit.
The lead audit partner was not present during reassured that appropriate steps have been taken: and the Committees discussion of the options for a tender of the Considered a report from PwC on the arrangements it has in place to external audit.
maintain its independence and objectivity.
PwC, and its predecessor firms, has been Barclays auditor since The Committee also re-evaluated the performance and effectiveness of 1896, and it is more than ten years since the external audit was last the auditor and the external audit process.
The lead audit partner rotates every five years and management across the Group was conducted following the Andrew Ratcliffe, the current lead audit partner, has been in post conclusion of the 2012 year-end audit.
A further survey was carried out since 2010 and will rotate at the conclusion of the audit for 2014. in late 2013 early 2014 and will be supplemented by a further test of Transitional guidance issued by the FRC, if applied to Barclays, stakeholder opinion including non-executive Directors following the would suggest a tender for the 2015 audit.
The Competition conclusion of the 2013 year-end audit.
These surveys are designed to Commissions transitional guidance is not yet available, but is likely establish internal perceptions of PwCs objectivity and independence: to mandate a tender slightly later than this.
In addition the European PwCs knowledge of the business, its risks and culture: the Unions proposed transitional rules would require Barclays to effectiveness of working relationships, particularly with Internal Audit: replace PwC within 6 years of the Regulation coming into force.
the level of insight and value added: and the levels of challenge and professional scepticism demonstrated.
The results were presented to The Committee has also had regard to the complexity and scale of the Committee and debated without the lead audit partner present.
the Barclays external audit and is particularly conscious of the From this and the Committees direct experience from its interactions degree of change impacting the business, including the Finance with PwC, the Committee concluded that it continued to be satisfied function, as a result of the Transform programme and the additional with the performance of PwC and that PwC continues to display the strain that both an audit tender and a change of audit firm would necessary attributes of objectivity and independence.
The results of the involve.
In addition, the Committee noted that both the Group survey, which included feedback on individual members of the audit Finance Director and the Committee Chairman are new in role, the team, were subsequently shared with the lead audit partner so that any latter having previously been a senior partner in one of the audit areas for improvement could be followed up.
Weighing up all these factors, and with the Committee Chairman having recently spoken to a number of key investors, the Committee has recommended to the Board that, depending on the final rules from the Competition Commission and the European Union, a tender of the external audit should start in 2015 or 2016 with respect to the 2017 or 2018 audit and that PwC should not be invited to tender.
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Following all the above, and in particular the process of re-evaluation, the Committee recommended to the Board and to shareholders that PwC should be re-appointed as the Groups auditors at the AGM on 24 April 2014.
To help assure the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Committee has in place a policy that sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non audit services.
Allowable services are pre-approved up to 100,000, or 25,000 in the case of certain taxation services.
Any proposed non-audit service that exceeds these thresholds requires specific approval from the Chairman of the Committee before the auditor can be engaged.
Such proposals must be robustly justified and, if appropriate, tendered, before they are approved.
During 2013, the Chairman of the Committee scrutinised all such requests for approval, particularly those that concerned taxation-related services, and two requests for approval were declined.
In particular, for tax advisory services the Committees instruction to management is not to use the external auditor unless an exceptional case can be made for not engaging an alternative supplier.
The Committee assessed quarterly reports on non-audit services undertaken by the auditor in order to satisfy itself as to the types of services being provided and to which businesses and the fees incurred.
While the level of non-audit services provided by PwC has fallen in recent years, the Committee made clear to management that it wished to see a further reduction in the level of non-audit fees payable to PwC and that the default position should be to use another firm.
Subsequently, a communication was issued to all business Chief Financial Officers across the Group emphasising the Committees instructions.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work during 2013 may be found in note 44 on page 368, with non-audit fees representing 28.5% of the audit fee 2012: 25.7%.
Assurance activity conducted by the external auditor in connection with the rights issue in 2013 resulted in a slight increase in the level of non-audit fees year on year.
Significant categories of engagement undertaken in 2013 included: attest and assurance services associated with the production of reports and comfort letters in connection with Barclays rights issue: quality assurance services relating to Barclays new performance management system: and tax compliance services for ongoing assignments initiated pre-January 2011 in connection with our expatriate and international assignees.
In each case, the request to use the auditor for these services was sponsored by a senior executive, who was required to demonstrate to the Committee a robust and thorough value case for using the auditor, including an explanation of any tender process conducted, any alternative providers considered and the criteria on which the decision to award the service to the auditor was made, including the specific skills and experience to be provided by the auditor.
In addition, in each case the relevant audit partner was required to attest that provision of the services had been approved in accordance with the auditors own internal ethical standards and that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under the policy can be found in the corporate governance section of Barclays website, Barclays.
2014 is likely to see new regulation on non-audit services from the European Union, introducing certain restrictions around the provision of non-audit services by the auditor and a 70% non-audit services fee cap.
The Committee will review the policy to take into account any new requirements that are introduced and will implement a limit for non-audit services of 250,000 over and above which the Committee will be required to approve such requests.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 67 Corporate governance report Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Report We established the Committee at the end of January 2013 as part of an enhanced Board-level framework for the governance of risk.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at This is the first report of the new Board Enterprise Wide Risk Barclays.
com corporategovernance Committee, which we established at the end of January 2013 as part of an enhanced Board-level framework for the governance of risk.
I describe below the Committees role and responsibilities, its composition and how we discharged our responsibilities in 2013.
Role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: Recommending to the Board the Groups overall risk appetite: Reviewing the aggregated risk pro le for the Group and performance against risk appetite: Identifying the potential impact of key issues and themes that may impact the enterprise wide risk pro le of the Group and ensuring that the Groups overall risk pro le and risk appetite remain appropriate: and Seeking to identify and assess future potential risks which, by virtue of their unfamiliarity, uncertainty and deemed low probability, may not have been factored adequately into review by other Board Committees.
The Committee was established on 31 January 2013 and membership comprises the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Chairmen of each of the principal Board Committees.
David Booth retired from the Committee on 31 December 2013 on retiring from the Board.
Mike Committee composition Ashley Chairman, Board Audit Committee and Tim Breedon Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is Chairman, Board Financial Risk Committee joined the Committee set out below: with effect from 1 January 2014.
Meetings attended eligible Member to attend Sir David Walker David Booth to 31 December 2013 Sir Michael Rake Sir John Sunderland Attended Did not attend unable to attend 1 meeting owing to a prior business commitment Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Allocation of Time % 2013 4 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite 61 2 Key Risk Issues 16 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 10 3 4 Other 13 1 2 68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The Committees work Debated the risks and opportunities arising from the changing The Committee met twice in 2013, as planned, with meetings timed to external environment, particularly the political environment, how this take place around the half and full-year periods.
The chart opposite might impact the business in future and how Barclays might position shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2013.
Committee itself: meetings were attended by management, including the Group Chief Debated ways in which risks that might lie ahead can be identified, by Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk implementing a radar system to scan the horizon for issues, estimate Officer, General Counsel and the then Head of Compliance, the impact and probability and discuss possible mitigation.
The Government and Regulatory Relations.
Committees discussion focused on establishing ways of achieving line of sight into unknown unknowns and ensuring that alternative In 2013 the Committees main activities in discharging its perspectives are taken into account when assessing potential future responsibilities were as follows: risks: Identified and prioritised key enterprise-wide risk themes, which Assessed and recommended to the Board the Groups overall risk resonate across the business and may impact Barclays overall risk appetite for 2014, encompassing financial risk credit, market and profile.
They can be seen across the activities of the principal Board funding, operational risk and conduct and reputation risk, taking a Committees, described in their reports.
They are: holistic view of the Groups risk profile and how the different risk types interact: Theme Significance Evaluated and approved Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Europe The possibility of a Eurozone crisis Framework, which replaced the Principal Risks Policy and is one of remained during 2013, as the weak the key outputs from the Transform programme workstream growth outlook continued to raise examining the risk and control framework: and concerns about sovereign creditworthiness in some countries.
Examined the split of responsibilities across each of the principal Board Committees to satisfy itself that there is no underlap and that Political Instability The possibility that Barclays risk profile any overlap is being managed effectively.
This included agreeing could be adversely impacted by high-level principles for the allocation of responsibilities across the deterioration of political stability in one Board Audit Committee, Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational or a number of countries in any of its Risk Committee and Board Financial Risk Committee, which will main business geographies.
inform each Committees agenda for 2014.
Quantitative Easing The possibility of a slowing of monetary stimulus by one or more governments Sir David Walker has increased the uncertainty of near Chairman, Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee term economic performance across our 3 March 2014 main business areas.
Leverage Regulatory Risk of failing to meet the PRAs Rules expectations in relation to the Leverage Ratio by June 2014.
While CRD IV has been issued, risks remain in respect of both its implementation and the additional requirements applied to each country.
Internal Controls The Transform programme is driving a period of significant strategic and organisational change, which in the short term, during implementation, may heighten operational risk exposure.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 69 Corporate governance report Board Financial Risk Committee Board Financial Risk Committee Report Changes to regulatory requirements for capital and liquidity, in order to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions and their ability to withstand systemic shocks, continue apace.
Tim Breedon Chairman, Board Financial Risk Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at Dear Shareholders Barclays.
com corporategovernance I succeeded David Booth as Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2014, having been a member of the Committee since late 2012.
I would like to thank David on behalf of the Committee for his signi cant contribution, both as a member of the Committee and latterly as Chairman.
The report that follows describes how the Committee discharged its responsibilities during 2013 and provides an insight into the material issues it considered.
2013 saw the Committee refocus on financial risk credit, market and funding risk as scrutiny of operational risk moved within the remit of the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee.
This has enabled the Committee to dig deeper into some of the key financial risk issues facing Barclays, for example, redenomination risk, tax risk and pension risk, and to provide additional scrutiny around risk governance and limit frameworks.
You can read more about the Committees role in the management of redenomination risk below, in the Governance in Action section.
The Committee also continued to play a part in examining Barclays financial risk pro le and in determining the scenarios to be used in Barclays stress testing exercises and evaluating the outcomes and the potential impact.
Committee composition Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is Changes to regulatory requirements for capital and liquidity, in order to set out below: ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions and their ability to withstand systemic shocks, continue apace.
2014 will see Meetings attended eligible implementation of CRD IV, the text of which was nalised in 2013, Member to attend although the precise details of its implementation in the UK are still to David Booth Chairman to 31 December 2013 be agreed.
We also expect to see a continuation of weak economic Mike Ashley from 18 September 2013 conditions in some of our main markets and our focus will be on Tim Breedon Chairman from 1 January 2014 ensuring that we continue to identify potential financial risks and Reuben Jeffery Sir Andrew Likierman to 25 April 2013 have in place a range of appropriate mitigating actions.
Dambisa Moyo Sir Michael Rake Attended Did not attend Tim Breedon unable to attend 1 meeting owing to a prior business commitment Chairman, Board Financial Risk Committee 3 March 2014 Board Financial Risk Committee Allocation of Time % 2013 2012 5 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite including capital and liquidity management 48 61 2 Key Risk Issues 22 18 4 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 12 6 4 Regulatory Frameworks 4 5 3 1 5 Other including remuneration and governance issues 15 10 2 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Role and responsibilities Risk Profile The Committees responsibilities include: Debated the quarterly Financial Risk Profile Report, which provided an update on credit, market, funding and liquidity risk in each of Recommending to the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee and Barclays main businesses, in order to satisfy itself that the financial the Board the total level of financial risk the Group is prepared to take risk profile of the Group remained appropriate.
The Committee was risk appetite to achieve the creation of long-term shareholder value: especially concerned to understand the potential impact of Monitoring financial risk appetite, including setting limits for continuing weak economic conditions in each of Barclays main individual types of financial risk, e. g. credit, market and funding risk: markets, in particular, the continuing possibility of a Eurozone crisis and the potential impact of a slowdown in monetary stimulus by one Monitoring the Groups financial risk profile: or more governments on economic performance.
Redenomination Ensuring that financial risk is taken into account during the due risk in the Eurozone was scrutinised regularly by the Committee and diligence phase of any strategic transaction: and further details of the Committees activity in this area are given below: Providing input from a financial risk perspective into the deliberations of the Board Remuneration Committee.
Approved scenarios for Barclays internal stress testing exercise and later evaluated the outputs.
The scenario of a severe global recession Committee composition was in line with the scenario operated by the PRA in its stress testing Mike Ashley joined the Committee in September 2013 and Sir Andrew exercise.
The Committee also endorsed a recommendation by Likierman left the Committee in April 2013 on retiring from the Board.
management to run a sensitivity analysis on the potential impact of a David Booth retired from the Committee on 31 December 2013 on disorderly cessation of quantitative easing.
The stress testing retiring from the Board, and was succeeded as Chairman by Tim exercises demonstrated that Barclays maintains acceptable leverage Breedon with effect from 1 January 2014.
Steve Thieke joined the and capital ratios at the low points of the stress and the Committee Committee in early 2014 on his appointment to the Board.
Details of was content with the results of the exercise: the skills and experience of the Committee members can be found in Regularly examined actual and forecast performance against the their biographies on pages 83 to 85. capital plan and capital targets, actual and forecast performance against liquidity risk appetite and the leverage ratio, via discussion of The Committees work regular reports from Barclays Treasurer.
In view of evolving regulatory The Committee met six times in 2013.
The chart on the previous page requirements, the Committee encouraged management to develop a shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2013.
Committee range of contingency options in order to ensure that the targets can meetings were attended by management, including the Group Chief continue to be met.
Further details of Barclays capital and liquidity Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk risk management framework can be found in the Risk Management Officer, Barclays Treasurer and General Counsel, as well as section of the Annual Report: representatives from the businesses.
The lead audit partner from the external auditor also attended each meeting.
During the year the Requested a deep dive into pension risk.
The Committee evaluated Committee held one of its meetings in New York and another in the impact of volatility in the defined benefit pension schemes Johannesburg.
In addition to the formal Committee meetings, the liabilities on Core Tier 1 capital, given the sensitivity to inflation and Committee held a briefing session on Pillar 3 reporting.
The main potential risks arise from any increase in inflation and the Committee considered whether there were any In discharging its responsibilities during 2013, the Committee: opportunities to reduce inflation risk over the next few years and the potential cost of doing so: and Risk Appetite Regularly debated tax risk during 2013, in particular, the status of Examined the proposed financial risk appetite for 2014 before discussions with key tax authorities relating to matters that remain recommending it to the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee for outstanding with regard to transactions from prior periods and the approval.
Taking a 1 in 7 scenario and a 1 in 25 scenario, the implementation of new tax principles within the Group.
The Committee assessed the performance of agreed financial volatility Committee was content with the new tax risk governance framework parameters in those scenarios to establish any potential constraints.
that has been implemented, which is aligned to Barclays Purpose The financial volatility parameters are largely unchanged from 2013, and Values, and asked to be kept updated on the status of settlement although they have been updated to include the Common Equity discussions with key tax authorities on prior period transactions.
Tier 1 ratio and leverage ratio in light of regulatory requirements.
The Committee concluded that the proposed financial risk appetite affords some headroom should any additional conduct risk issues crystallise in 2014: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 71 Corporate governance report Board Financial Risk Committee continued Risk Management Governance and Framework Assessed and approved enhancements to the governance around the Governance in action limits applied to Barclays Leveraged Finance and Capital Markets Redenomination Risk Underwriting businesses.
The enhancements approved by the A significant area of focus for the Committee during 2013 was Committee are designed to improve controls given the scale of the redenomination risk, in view of Barclays exposures in peripheral business.
The focus of the Committees attention was Requested a review of models and model governance and assessed Spain, Portugal and Italy, as Barclays exposures in Greece and the work that has been done to meet supervisory guidance on Model Ireland are not considered to be material.
Risk Management issued by the US Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of Currency.
This guidance sets out expectations for Redenomination risk in this instance arises when local assets are achieving effective challenge, including independent validation of greater than local funding there is a risk from the potential models, by way of critical analysis by objective, informed parties.
depreciation of locally held assets against international liabilities in Having assessed progress made to date, the Committee was content the event of any disorderly exits from the Eurozone.
In view of with the changes made to the governance and framework and the continuing concerns arising from economic and political conditions introduction of policies and standards.
In 2013, 78 of the 83 most in the Eurozone, the Committee challenged management to significant risk models were reviewed and validated and the eliminate redenomination risk as far as possible over the course of Committee encouraged management to achieve full review and the year and requested regular updates on the actions taken and validation of all of the most significant risk models on an annual basis their impact.
Management had established a Euro Crisis Committee, chaired by Debated the actions that are under way to implement a target the Chief Risk Officer and reporting up to the Committee, operating model for the Risk function in view of greater specifically tasked with managing redenomination risk.
Actions functionalisation across the Group, in particular, the plans to taken in 2013 to close the funding gap have included seeking local implement a global shared services model, which should deliver Euro funding to replace Sterling denominated funding provided by more consistent processes and standards, improve efficiency and the Group, via a combination of the European Central Banks effectiveness, reduce costs and reinforce the independence of the risk Long-Term Refinancing Operation, funding from local central banks function.
The Committee endorsed the plans and requested further and raising local deposits.
Further actions have included reducing progress reports as implementation progresses.
available for sale sovereign bond portfolios, particularly in Spain and Portugal.
Action has also been taken to dispose of local assets, with Risk in Remuneration positions in Spain, Portugal and Italy reduced across all asset Assessed the input provided to the Board Remuneration Committee classes.
In addition, a reverse stress testing exercise involving on the risk metrics to be used to determine financial performance Eurozone break-up scenarios has been run and detailed and evaluated the Risk functions view of performance, which contingency planning for any Eurozone exit has been developed and informed remuneration decisions for 2013.
Matters to be taken into tested.
The Committee supported and encouraged these actions.
consideration included performance against risk profile, impairment performance against budget and control processes and the The Committee regularly assessed the progress being made during Committee requested that certain regulatory issues and risk control 2013 and continues to press management to explore further issues were reflected.
The Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 125 options to reduce redenomination risk, in particular with respect to includes more detail on how risk is taken into account in Italy.
During 2013, the net funding mismatch continued to decrease remuneration decisions.
from 11.8bn to 11.6bn in Italy and from 4.1bn to 3.0bn in Portugal.
The excess of local liabilities over local assets in Spain Risk Due Diligence increased from 2.3bn to 3.1bn.
Asked management to undertake a post-acquisition review of the acquisition of certain portfolios from Edcon Proprietary Limited.
The portfolio, acquired in 2012, had not performed as well as the acquisition business case had forecast, although its returns at that time still exceeded the Groups target.
The Committee was keen to learn any lessons for future risk due diligence exercises, which were identified as greater consideration of execution risks and further financial analysis of potential economic and regulatory scenarios.
At the Committees request, the outputs of the review were shared more widely with senior management across the Group.
Further details of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are included in the Directors Report on pages 80 and 81 and in the Risk Management Report on pages 377 to 422.
72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Corporate governance report Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee Report I am greatly encouraged by the additional time, focus and rigour the new Committee is bringing to these important areas of non-financial risk.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at In early 2013, the Board decided to create a new Board Conduct, Reputation Barclays.
com corporategovernance and Operational Risk Committee, with a remit to cover Conduct, Reputation and Operational risk.
2013 was therefore the first full year of operation for the Committee and the report that follows describes its role and how it discharged its responsibilities over the past 12 months.
Our primary focus during 2013 was on developing Barclays approach to Conduct risk, where we have spent time establishing what it means for Barclays and how we will manage it in a way that ensures positive outcomes for our customers and clients.
The Governance in Action section below provides more detail on the Committees role in developing Barclays approach to Conduct risk.
Another key area of focus for the Committee has been assessing the pace and strength of cultural change at Barclays and I report on this below.
I have chaired the Committee during its formative stages and am greatly encouraged by the additional time, focus and rigour the new Committee is bringing to these important areas of non-financial risk.
Reuben Jeffery will take over from me as Committee Chairman with effect from 1 April 2014.
Role and responsibilities Committee composition The Committee is responsible for ensuring, on behalf of the Board, the Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is efficiency of the processes for identification and management of Conduct set out below: risk, Reputation risk and Operational risk.
It also has responsibility for oversight of the Barclays Citizenship Strategy, including the management Meetings attended eligible of Barclays economic, social and environmental contribution.
Member to attend Sir David Walker Chairman l l l l The Committee reports to the Board both directly and through the Tim Breedon from 1 February 2013 l l l l Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee.
Reuben Jeffery from 1 April 2013 l l l Wendy Lucas-Bull from 1 December 2013 l Dambisa Moyo l l l Committee composition Diane fide Saint Victor from 1 March 2013 l l l l I have chaired the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Sir John Sunderland l l l l Committee from the outset and I am joined by seven non-executive l Attended Did not attend Directors, all of whom are considered independent for the purposes unable to attend 1 meeting owing to a prior business commitment of the Code, with the exception of Wendy Lucas-Bull.
Our names and attendance at meetings during 2013 are set out in the table opposite.
Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee Given its expanded remit, it was agreed that the Committee would Allocation of Time % benefit from the additional experience provided by Tim Breedon, Reuben Jeffery, Wendy Lucas-Bull and Diane fide Saint Victor, who each 2013 6 1 joined the Committee during 2013.
In addition, Mike Ashley joined the 1 Citizenship 10 2 Reputational Issues 10 Committee in early 2014.
2 3 Culture 9 5 4 Conduct and Compliance 39 Our Chief Risk Officer, Head of Compliance and Chief Internal Auditor 5 Operational Risk 28 3 6 Other 5 are expected to attend each meeting.
Our Group Chief Executive, Antony Jenkins, attended all four meetings in 2013.
The Committees work 4 The Committee met four times in 2013.
The chart opposite shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2013. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 73 Corporate governance report Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee continued Operational risk At each meeting we examined the Operational Risk Profile Report, Governance in action which provides us with an overview of Operational risk across the Conduct risk Group.
Barclays has for the first time put in place a statement of We spent time at the outset in defining what Conduct risk means operational risk appetite, together with quantitative and qualitative for Barclays, how much Conduct risk we are prepared to accept and measures for assessment.
The draft statement and assessment how we measure and manage it.
approach were scrutinised by the Committee in June and we recommended them to the Board for approval.
In December we Our first step was to scrutinise managements proposed definition examined and recommended the proposed 2014 Operational Risk of Conduct risk.
We agreed that, for Barclays, Conduct risk is the Appetite to the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee and the Board.
risk that detriment is caused to our customers, clients or During 2012 the Board Risk Committee now the Board Financial Risk counterparties or Barclays and its employees because of Committee had identified that Technology Risk is a key area of risk inappropriate judgment in the execution of our business activities.
for Barclays, as it is likely to be for other banks.
In March, we held our We established our proposed tolerance, or appetite, for Conduct first operational risk deep dive focused on Technology Risk.
We risk, agreeing that Barclays has no tolerance for such risk.
challenged management to further reduce the number of technology risk incidents and increase the pace of remediation for control issues.
We scrutinised the proposed accountability framework, outcome statements and management information for Conduct risk and Our scrutiny of the operational risk profile also highlighted the need emphasised that, in addition to putting in place a sound framework, for a deep dive into Cyber Risk which is the risk of attacks on there must be focus on ensuring the right people are in place to run Barclays, attacks on Barclays customers and attacks on service the businesses and that providing the right training was crucial.
We debated the issue at length, probing management for details of the resources and investment we are devoting to cyber risk, We requested that Conduct risk reports give more consideration to and what contingency we have in place should a cyber attack be forward-looking aspects and how they are shaping the thinking on successful.
We asked to be kept regularly updated.
the management of Conduct risk.
Management will report quarterly, including key observations drawn from the management Implementing and monitoring cultural change information reported by each business, and commentary from the Barclays is changing and a significant part of that is cultural change: our second line of defence on risks and actions to be taken.
The people need to live and breathe our new purpose and values in order to reports will also draw out themes across the businesses, and any ensure that we achieve our ambition of becoming the Go-To bank.
The issues escalated to the management committee responsible for Committee has therefore assumed Board oversight responsibility for Conduct and Reputational risk, plus any developments in the implementing and monitoring cultural change.
The approach to external environment.
For example, where a business has decided cultural and behavioural change focuses strongly on leadership to exit or cease to offer a product, the focus will be on ensuring that behaviour and during 2013 has been measured using a proprietary tool appropriate processes are in place to identify and manage any - Transforming Barclays, which has gained insights into the conditions potential Conduct risk arising from that decision.
These reports will for success from colleague surveys, senior leadership forums and a allow us to monitor Conduct risk effectively going forward and allow pan-Barclays communication event, the Barclays Jam.
the Group to manage it proactively, rather than reactively.
Over the year we have seen evidence of strong belief in our Purpose and Values and the results from internal surveys have been positive.
The Committee examined the governance arrangements designed For example, 97% of the senior leadership group believe that they can to bring Conduct and Reputational risk issues together, and pressed make decisions aligned to the Barclays Purpose and, in a Group-wide management for assurance that the structure ensured sufficient colleague survey, the score for sustainable engagement was 74%.
After some discussion we were challenged management to ensure that an external perspective was content to support the structure as proposed but emphasised the obtained in order to ensure that customers and stakeholders agree need for regular review to ensure it remains effective.
We also that we are changing.
We expect to see evidence of this in 2014. emphasised that there could be greater focus on the duty of care owed to our customers and their need to understand our products.
Citizenship Our focus on Citizenship in 2013 was on the annual Citizenship Day We scrutinised the Groups approach to product development in and developing a long-term 2020 Citizenship Vision.
We agreed with light of Conduct risk.
We were assured that the new product management that we needed to emphasise our commitments to approval process in our UK Retail Bank had been revised and, society, focusing on execution and equipping leaders across the although now a good process, would be refined further.
Group to take societal impacts into account in their decision making.
We pressed management to strengthen communication of strategy Going into 2014 we are confident that we have an effectively designed and what we are doing to deliver it.
Conduct risk management framework in place.
From 1 January 2014 our businesses have taken responsibility for the management of Reputation Conduct risk and will report against the thresholds set out in the Throughout 2013 the Committee monitored Reputational risk at framework.
2014 will be a transition year as the businesses embed the Barclays, asking management to provide a more thematic view of new approach in decisions and processes.
We will be monitoring this risks to Barclays and to carry out horizon scanning in order to transition closely and will report back to you on progress in our 2014 identify approaching risks early, before they crystallise, giving us the Annual Report.
The Committee also assessed the process in place for authorising We also examined and recommended to the Board for approval our Directors conflicts of interest and concluded that they have been new Group-wide Code of Conduct, The Barclays Way which was effective.
The processes are described in Corporate Governance in developed following extensive stakeholder engagement.
Barclays available on our website Barclays.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee 3 March 2014 74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Corporate governance report Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report We seek to ensure that Barclays has the right people in place to achieve its goal of becoming the Go-To bank.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee The Committees terms of reference are available at 2013 saw the Committee focus on Board and Board Committee Barclays.
com corporategovernance composition and succession planning, resulting in a number of new appointments to the Board and changes to Board Committee membership, including the appointment of new chairmen for the Board Audit Committee and Board Financial Risk Committee.
We also saw significant progress towards our Board Diversity targets, achieving our 2013 target of having 20% of the Board comprised of women by 2013.
More information about Board Diversity can be found on page 57 and our Board Diversity Policy is available on our website, Barclays.
Executive succession and talent management occupied a substantial amount of time at each of the Committees meetings in 2013, as we seek to ensure that Barclays has the right people in place to achieve its goal of becoming the Go-To bank.
You will learn more about the Committees activities in respect of talent management in the Governance in Action section, opposite.
Role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for ensuring that the composition of the Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables them to function effectively.
This requires us to regularly examine the skills, experience and diversity on the Board and each Committee and look ahead at any Committee composition upcoming retirements.
Where we identify gaps, either in the short, Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings in 2013 is medium or longer term, it is our role to find a way to fill those gaps by, set out below: for example, identifying and recommending new Directors, or recommending changes in Committee membership.
Succession planning Meetings attended eligible Member to attend for key Board positions, such as the Group Chief Executive, Senior Sir David Walker Chairman l l l l Independent Director and Committee Chairmen, forms a part of our David Booth to 31 December 2013 l l l l wider remit.
Sir Michael Rake l l l l Sir John Sunderland l l l l In addition to our responsibility for talent at Board level, we are l Attended Did not attend responsible for the oversight of the Groups Talent Management Programme.
Note Mike Ashley and Tim Breedon joined the Committee with effect from 1 January 2014.
Our Group Chief Executive Officer, Antony Jenkins, also attends each meeting, although We are responsible for agreeing the annual Board effectiveness review he will excuse himself if the matter of succession to his role is discussed.
The Chairman process and monitoring any actions arising.
We also keep abreast of will excuse himself if the matter of succession to his role is discussed.
corporate governance issues and developments to ensure that Barclays practices remain in line with best practice.
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Allocation of Time % Committee composition As Chairman of the Board, I also Chair the Board Corporate Governance 2013 2012 5 and Nominations Committee.
Joining me on the Committee are the 1 Corporate Governance Matters 22 21 1 4 2 Board & Committee Composition 19 32 Chairmen of each of our other Board Committees and the Deputy 3 Succession planning and Talent 43 29 Chairman.
During 2013 there were four members in total and our 4 Board Effectiveness 13 14 names and attendance at meetings during 2013 are set out in the 5 Other 4 4 table opposite.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 75 Corporate governance report Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee continued The Committee also assessed the processes in place for authorising The Committees work The Committee held four meetings in 2013, one of which was an Directors conflicts of interest and concluded that they had been effective.
The processes are described in Corporate Governance in additional meeting to consider Executive Committee changes.
The chart opposite shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2013.
Barclays available on our website, Barclays.
Board and Committee Composition and Succession Planning Sir David Walker As described on page 56, the Board went through a period of significant refreshment in 2013, with five new Directors having joined, Chairman, Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee 3 March 2014 and three having retired.
This refreshment arose from a concerted focus by the Committee on Board and Committee composition, anticipating how it is likely to change, confirming its ideal size and the appropriate mix of skills, experience and diversity and concluding what changes were needed for the future.
These issues were debated at each Governance in action of our scheduled meetings and our conclusions reported to the next Talent management Board meeting.
Actions agreed were implemented and followed up at We recognise that our people are our biggest asset and that we the next meeting.
For example, we agreed that a search should have a responsibility to our stakeholders, including our commence for a new non-executive Director with specific accounting shareholders, customers and our people themselves, to ensure that expertise to provide succession options for chairing the Board Audit we recruit the best, effectively manage their potential and that there Committee.
I ensured that the Committee was kept updated on are succession plans in place for key leadership positions.
It is progress and sought their views, both in formal meetings and therefore crucial that there is Board level oversight of talent informally.
Mike Ashley was identified as a suitable candidate and was management.
interviewed separately by me, Antony Jenkins, Chris Lucas, our then Group Finance Director, and other members of the Committee.
The We requested updates on talent management at each of our Committee recommended Mike Ashleys appointment to the Board on scheduled meetings in 2013 so that we could scrutinise the new the basis of positive feedback from all Board members who interviewed multi-year talent strategy, which forms part of the Transform him.
Mike Ashley succeeded Sir Michael Rake as Chairman of Board programme, and satisfy ourselves that it was fit for purpose.
Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2014.
We confirmed that the strategy, which is aimed at ensuring that The Committee had specific regard to the independence criteria set Barclays has the right leadership now and for the future, is out in the Charter of Expectations when considering the proposal that appropriate and challenged management to make significant Sir John Sunderland should remain on the Board until the 2015 AGM in progress on each of the identified initiatives.
order to effect an orderly handover to a new Board Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Our discussions covered recruitment and talent management at all levels including our early career recruitment programmes our Executive search firms, MWM Consulting and Egon Zehnder graduate recruitment and our apprenticeships programme, International, were instructed to assist with our Director searches in ensuring the mobility and diversity of high potential employees, 2013.
Neither external agency has any other connection with Barclays including high potential women, and developing senior leaders.
other than to provide executive recruitment services.
Open advertising was not used in 2013 for Barclays non-executive Board positions, as we Having challenged management to achieve a 50% female graduate believe that targeted recruitment, based on the agreed role and person intake in the Investment Bank, a traditionally male-dominated specification, is the optimal way of recruiting for these positions.
business area, management provided an update on the actions being taken to widen the pool from which graduates are recruited Board effectiveness and to address perceptions of careers in financial services.
These The Committee considered the process for the 2013 Board include sponsorship of female university sports teams and societies, Effectiveness Review early in the year.
We have had our Board partnerships with organisations involved in creating opportunities Effectiveness Review externally facilitated each year since 2004 and we for graduates and introducing a diversity objective to senior leaders debated whether we should continue with external facilitation, or objectives.
arrange an internally facilitated evaluation.
We decided that we would like to remain at the forefront of best practice and agreed to continue The Committee supported proposals to include a diversity metric in with external facilitation.
We also agreed to choose a new facilitator in our new Balanced Scorecard and to encourage cross-business and order to refresh the process and to allay any residual concerns there cross-function moves.
Internal mobility is being encouraged across may be around potential conflicts given our previous facilitators the Group for all high potential employees, particularly for highexecutive recruitment business.
After discussions with a number of potential women, in order to ensure that career options are not external service providers it was agreed to appoint Bvalco as the confined to a particular business or function.
Bvalco has no other connection with Barclays other than to provide Board evaluation services.
Both management and the Committee recognise that increasing diversity and developing talent are long-term objectives and we will We also monitored progress against the actions arising from the 2012 continue to scrutinise progress closely in 2014.
I provide an update on this, and the outcomes of the 2013 Board Effectiveness Review on page 58.
Corporate governance We examined our proposed corporate governance disclosures in the 2012 Annual Report and debated whether it appropriately addressed the issues given the LIBOR settlement in 2012 and subsequent events.
Our focus was on ensuring that our reporting was as transparent as possible.
We also discussed feedback that had been received from various institutional investors and investor bodies on remuneration issues and matters to be voted on at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Corporate governance report Compliance Statements Compliance Statements UK Corporate Governance Code As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with the Code, which is publicly available at www.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, we complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Code and applied the principles of the Code as described in this report, except as disclosed below: Provision C. 3.7 of the Code requires that the external audit contract is put out to tender at least every ten years.
This is a new provision of the Code that applies for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012 and one which the Chairman of the Board Audit Committee discussed with some of our major shareholders in early 2014.
Barclays external audit contract has not been re-tendered at any time in the past ten years.
In view of potential new regulation that is likely from both the Competition Commission and European Union, Barclays is currently planning to tender its external audit in 2015 or 2016.
The Board Audit Committee Report on page 62 provides further details.
Provision E. 2.3 of the Code requires that the Chairman should arrange for all Directors to attend the AGM.
While such arrangements were made, Reuben Jeffery and Diane fide Saint Victor were unable to attend the 2013 AGM owing to prior commitments.
The Chairman and all Board Committee Chairmen attended and were available to answer questions.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors Report on pages 78 to 82.
New York Stock Exchange NYSE NYSE rules permit Barclays to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, provided that any significant variations are explained.
This explanation is contained in Barclays 20-F filing, which can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or via our website, Barclays.
Sir David Walker Chairman 3 March 2014 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 77
