Investor relations We place great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report are available to shareholders on the companys website www.
A mailed copy of the accounts is also available on request.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
Financial reporting for insurance companies can seem to be complex.
In order to help shareholders and potential investors better understand the key drivers of the business and its prospects, we have endeavoured to provide increasing levels of transparency and explanation in our communications.
As a result, in addition to enhancing the information contained in the annual and interim reports, the investor relations centre on the company website contains a substantial amount of relevant information for investors, including key corporate data and news, presentations to analysts, information for the names syndicate 623 and special purpose syndicate 6107, analyst estimates and a financial calendar.
The website also gives investors the opportunity to sign up for an alert service as new information becomes available.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in newspapers including the Financial Times, The Times, the Daily Telegraph, the Daily Mail and the Evening Standard.
Shareholding by type of investor Mutual funds 51% Insurance 12% Retail 12% Pensions 10% Investment trusts 5% Directors 2% Charities 1% Trading 1% Others 6% There are currently 11 analysts publishing research notes on the group.
In addition to research coverage from Numis and JP Morgan, the companys joint corporate broker, coverage is provided by Nomura, Keefe Bruyette & Woods, Peel Hunt, Shore Capital, Espirito Santo Investment Bank Research, Cannaccord, Berenberg, Collins Stewart, Westhouse Securities and Edison Investment Research.
Share price performance 400 320 240 160 80 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Feb 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Beazley FT350 Index ASX Index MCX Index Financial calendar 28 February 2014 Second interim dividend and special dividend record date 26 March 2014 Annual general meeting 28 March 2014 Second interim dividend and special dividend payment date for the six months ended 31 December 2013 22 July 2014 First interim dividend announcement for the six months ended 30 June 2014 Beazley www.
com 64 Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of corporate governance Compliance with code provisions The board confirms that the company and the group have complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, with the exception of the fact that Andrew Horton was unable to attend the AGM due to illness and Jonathan Gray was unable to attend the AGM due to other pressing business commitments.
The board considers: the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and that they provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The companys auditors have reviewed the companys compliance to the extent required by the UK listing rules for review by auditors of UK listed companies.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the main principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code have been applied by the group.
The board The board consists of a non-executive chairman, Dennis Holt, together with six independent non-executive directors, of whom George Blunden is the senior independent non-executive director, and five executive directors, of whom Andrew Horton is chief executive.
The non-executive directors, who have been appointed for specified terms, are considered by the board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Biographies of current board members appear in the board of directors section of this report.
The biographies indicate the high level and wide range of business experience that are essential to manage a business of this size and complexity.
A well defined operational and management structure is in place and the roles and responsibilities of senior executives and key members of staff are clearly defined.
The full board meets at least five times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes, inter alia, strategic matters: statutory matters intended to generate and preserve value over the longer term: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of directors, officers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference.
It is responsible for: the review of group performance against budgets: approving of material contracts: determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate: reviewing the groups annual forecasts: and approval of the groups corporate business plans, including capital adequacy and the Own Risk Solvency Assessment.
The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board has also appointed an executive committee with delegated responsibility for particular matters such as considering the business plan, underwriting, risk and regulations including the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, investments and operations.
There is an agreed principle that directors may take independent professional advice if necessary at the companys expense, on the basis that the expense is reasonable.
This is in addition to the access which every director has to the company secretary.
The secretary is charged by the board with ensuring that board procedures are followed.
To enable the board to function effectively and directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
During 2013 the company implemented electronic board and committee papers which ensures all information available is easy to access.
Directors also have access to an electronic information repository to support their activities.
All directors allocate sufficient time to the company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The terms and conditions of appointment for all the non-executive directors set out the expected time commitment and they agree that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The nomination committee actively reviews the activities and time commitments of members and any changes to other significant commitments of the chairman and the non-executive directors would be reported to the board as they arose.
During the year the nomination committee prepared a job specification, including an assessment of the time commitment expected, for the appointment of Angela Crawford-Ingle.
