Statement of corporate governance continued The composition of, and appointments to, the board of both executive and non-executive directors are considered by the nomination committee.
The recommendations of the nomination committee are ultimately made to the full board, which considers them before any change is made.
All directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the board and the chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training needs to ensure that they continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company, as required to fulfil their role both on the board and on any board committee of which they are a member.
The remuneration committee considers any remuneration package of executive directors before it is offered to a potential appointee.
Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the companys remuneration policy are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Meetings with non-executive directors The chairman holds meetings as required with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
Board performance evaluation Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board is required to undertake formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and for this to be externally facilitated every three years.
In 2012 an assessment of the effectiveness of the board and its committees was externally facilitated by Deloitte LLP.
The board confirms that improvements recommended by Deloitte LLP have been implemented.
In 2013 the self assessment of effectiveness of the board and its committees was conducted through a combination of questionnaires and meetings.
The board considered the results of the assessment and confirmed that there were no significant matters to be addressed.
Further details of the review are included in the nomination committee report.
Individual attendance by directors at regular meetings of the board and of committees In addition to the five regular board meetings, there were further meetings to consider the Q3 2013 interim statement and director changes.
Attendance at the meetings was high.
All the directors also attend an annual strategy day.
The remuneration committee has five scheduled meetings and in 2013 there was an additional ad hoc meeting with full attendance.
Attendance at the regular board and committee meetings is set out in the table below: Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee No.
Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended G P Blunden 5 5 6 6 5 5 5 5 M L Bride 5 5 A P Cox 5 5 A D Crawford-Ingle 4 4 5 5 J G Gray 2 2 A G K Hamilton 1 1 1 1 1 1 D Holt 5 5 5 5 5 5 D A Horton 5 5 5 5 P J OConnor 5 5 5 5 N P Maidment 5 5 V J Sheridan 5 5 6 6 K P Sroka 5 5 5 5 4 4 R W Tolle 5 5 6 6 C A Washbourn 5 4 O n 27 March 2013 Gordon Hamilton resigned from the board, audit and risk and nomination committees and Ken Sroka was appointed to the nomination committee.
Angela Crawford-Ingle was appointed to the board and as chairman of the audit and risk committee on 27 March 2013.
On 30 June 2013 Jonathan Gray resigned from the board.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained in the statement of directors responsibilities and the independent auditors report, together with the statement of the directors on going concern in the directors report.
The board confirms that there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant compliance issues and risks facing the group.
All significant risks are captured in the Beazley risk register and monitored on a monthly basis.
The risk register and the related internal capital assessment process are subject to review, challenge and approval by the board.
The board agreed the 2013 risk appetite for the group at the end of 2012 and, throughout 2013, the board has considered and acted upon the information presented to it in order to make risk based decisions against the 2013 risk appetite.
Key components of the risk management framework include monthly control self assessments and six monthly risk assessments, with ad hoc risk assessments being conducted when required.
These matters have been considered by the executive risk and regulatory committee each month and the audit and risk committee and board quarterly.
In addition, the board has considered the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment report in the past year.
This risk management framework has provided the board with an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, monitoring and managing the risks to the company, and accords with the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code guidance.
The directors are responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives within the risk appetite set by the board.
The key procedures that the directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective and commensurate with a group of this size include: the day-to-day supervision of the business by the executive directors: review and analysis by the various group committees of standard monthly, quarterly and periodic reporting, as prescribed by the board: review of financial, operational and assurance reports from management: and the review of any significant issues arising from internal and external audits.
The board therefore confirms that it has, during 2013, reviewed the effectiveness of the groups risk management and internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and continue to operate up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Further information on the role of the audit and risk committee is set out on page 68 and further information on risk management at Beazley is set out in the risk management report.
Shareholder communication The company places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The annual report and accounts and the interim report will be available from www.
com and, on request, will be mailed to shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the groups performance.
The company responds to individual letters from shareholders and maintains a separate investor relations centre within the existing www.
com website, as a repository for all investor relations matters.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, as well as general presentations, attended by executive directors, after the preliminary and interim results.
The board is advised of any specific comments from institutional investors, to enable it to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put forward questions at the companys annual general meeting.
The company has the authority within its articles to communicate with its shareholders using electronic and website communication and to allow for electronic proxy voting.
Board committees The group has established properly constituted audit and risk, remuneration and nomination committees of the board.
There are terms of reference for each committee and details of their main responsibilities and activities in 2013 are set out on pages 68 to 72. www.
com Beazley 67 Annual report 2013 Statement of corporate governance continued Audit and risk committee The committees main risk-related responsibilities are to, inter alia: advise the board on the companys risk management framework, which includes the risk management objectives, risk appetite, risk culture and assignment of risk management responsibilities: review risk reports and management information to enable a clear understanding of the key risks and controls in the business: review any breaches of risk appetite and the adequacy of proposed action: and review the identification of future risks, including considering emerging trends and future risk strategy, and review the remit of the risk management function and ensure it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to perform its function effectively.
Full details of the terms of reference of the committee are Angela Crawford-Ingle available on www.
Significant financial statement reporting issues for the 2013 year The significant financial statement reporting issues, along The board has delegated oversight of audit and risk matters with the significant matters and accounting judgements that to the audit and risk committee which currently comprises the committee considered during the year under review, are Angela Crawford-Ingle committee chairman, Vincent Sheridan, set out below.
George Blunden and Rolf Tolle.
Angela assumed the role of a Valuation of insurance liabilities chairman on her appointment to the board in March 2013 and has relevant and recent financial experience as a former As further explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those partner of .
to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
2013 has seen Responsibilities of the committee The committees main audit-related responsibilities are to, a number of medium-sized catastrophes, but has otherwise been a relatively benign year.
Our consideration of cat losses inter alia: monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements has therefore been restricted to developments in relation to the more significant cats of previous years.
and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance: The audit committee receives regular reports from both the review the Annual Report before submission to and approval by, the board, and before clearance by the external auditors, internal group actuary and the external audit team.
In the latter covering critical accounting policies, significant financial part of the year, the group actuary has reported both informally reporting judgements, the going concern assumption, and formally on the results of the Q3 peer review process, which compliance with accounting standards and other the committee considers to be a key control as it provides a requirements under applicable law, regulations and level of informed independent challenge for the reserve position.
governance codes applicable to the financial statements: Through this reporting, management confirmed that they review the companys internal financial controls and the remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included companys internal control and risk management systems: in the financial statements provide an appropriate margin over approve the appointment or termination of the appointment projected ultimate claims costs, and none of the committees of the head of internal audit and monitor and review the other enquiries identified any errors or inconsistencies that effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: were material in the context of the financial statements as review the arrangements by which employees of the company a whole.
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other areas: and recommending to the board of directors the appointment, re-appointment and termination of external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The external auditors have also used the Q3 data to re-project Internal audit the reserves using their own methodologies and the The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the groups comparison presented to the committee has provided an internal audit function and its work to the audit and risk additional level of challenge to the result.
This work was committee: the function reports directly to the committee.
rolled forward and reported on at the year end with further During 2013, the committee: consideration of the classes of business within specialty lines, considered the results of all internal audit reports and which the committee requested.
On the basis of their audit monitored the progress of resulting actions: work, the auditor reported no inconsistencies or misstatements approved the internal audit universe and 2014 internal that were material in the context of the financial statements audit plan: as a whole: and in the committees view this supports the reviewed and approved the internal audit charter: appropriateness of the groups methodology.
monitored ongoing amendments to the internal audit functions activities to ensure it complies with the UK b Valuation of financial assets at fair value Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors code for effective As more fully explained in note 16, the total carrying amount internal audit in the financial services sector.
of financial assets at fair value investments at 31 December 2013 is $4,043.6m.
Assessing the effectiveness of the external auditors The committee places great importance on ensuring there are The board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, high standards of quality and effectiveness in the external audit defining the risk appetite and overseeing the outsource provider process.
Audit quality is assessed throughout the year, with via the chief investment officer CIO.
The committee receives a focus on strong audit governance and the quality of the team.
reporting from the CIO via the finance director and it has The effectiveness of the audit is assessed through discussion reported for 2013 that the investment portfolio is in line with on an annual basis, taking into account considerations such as: the board approved risk appetite and that carrying values of reviewing the quality and scope of the audit planning and the portfolio as at 31 December 2013 are appropriate.
its responsiveness to changes in the business: monitoring of the auditors independence: The auditor explained the results of their work on financial considering the level of challenge evidence in discussions instruments, including testing of the existence and valuation.
and reporting: and On the basis of their audit work, no misstatements that were discussing the output of the FRCs Audit Quality Review material in the context of the financial statements as a whole with our auditors.
Non-audit services c Valuation of intangible assets and goodwill The audit and risk committees responsibility to monitor As set out in note 12, in 2013 management have recorded and review the objectivity and independence of the external a write-down in the valuation of the renewal rights associated auditor is supported by a policy that we have developed in with the AIP business in Australia.
This business has been relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
loss-making for several years and the committee followed The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services the progress of this decision through reporting from both does not impair the external auditors objectivity.
The policy management and the external auditor to the point at which specifically disallows certain activities to be provided by the decision was finalised.
The committee noted that the the auditors, such as bookkeeping and accounting services, loss-making business meant that the projected future cash internal actuarial services and executive remuneration services.
flows could not support the carrying value of the intangible The policy requires pre-approval for all other material services asset and concurred with the position taken by management.
such as due diligence assistance, tax services and advice on accounting and audit matters.
The committee reviews the d Recoverability of reinsurance assets terms of such proposed services to ensure they have been The committee received confirmation from management that robustly justified.
the majority of Beazleys reinsurance receivables are due from highly rated institutions.
Based on previous experience, the The committee receives a report from the external auditors committee have not noted any instances where poor quality twice a year setting out all non-audit services undertaken so reinsurers have led to a financial loss and are comfortable with that it can monitor the types of services being provided, and the monitoring processes management have described and the fees incurred for that work.
The aim is to limit the total put in place to ensure this continues.
The external auditor spend on non-audit services to a maximum of the annual audit has provided an overview of industry benchmarks reviewed fee, unless it is deemed to be in the shareholders interest from in the context of the groups reinsurance counterparts and an efficiency and effectiveness point of view.
the committee is comfortable that the judgements applied by management are not out of line with peers.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements.
None of the non-audit services provided are considered by the audit and risk committee to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
com Beazley 69 Annual report 2013 Statement of corporate governance continued Risk management The Beazley plc board has delegated oversight of the risk management framework to the audit and risk committee.
To assist the audit and risk committee, the committee, supported by the risk committees of the subsidiary boards, receives and review reports from the risk management function focusing on the following areas: risk appetite: The committee has monitored the actual risk profile against risk appetite throughout 2013 and can confirm that Beazley has been operating within risk appetite.
The committee has also reviewed the proposed 2014 risk appetite and commended it to the Beazley plc board for approval: risk assessment: The committee has performed a review of the risk profile to ensure it covers the complete universe of risk and that all major underlying risks are visible and are being monitored: reverse stress testing: The committee has received the results of the reverse stress testing exercise to understand what would have to happen for the group to be unviable and to provide assurance to the board that the likelihood of this is sufficiently remote: risk profiles: The committee has reviewed risk profiles on the Beazley Breach Response product and our aviation products with a particular focus on what risks are underwritten and how the risks, including the aggregation of risk, are managed: emerging risk: The committee supported the identification of strategic and emerging risks which were discussed at the board meeting in May and have been subsequently monitored and reported in the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA : oversight of the control environment: The committee has received a quarterly consolidated assurance report which provides the status of the control environment with views from the business, from risk management, from compliance and from internal audit.
It also includes entries from the risk incident log: oversight of internal model: The committee and the risk committees of the subsidiary boards have reviewed a number of reports on the operation of the internal model.
These have included a standing report on internal model output, a validation report covering both internal and independent validation and themed reviews, for example, on the approach used to aggregate risk.
These assessments have supported the boards use of the internal model: and quarterly ORSA: The committee has received a quarterly ORSA report and has reviewed it as part of the quality assurance process before commending it to the board.
com Annual report 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration committee Key activities in 2013 During 2013 the committee: reviewed the key aspects of the remuneration policy, and the committee is satisfied that the current remuneration structure is appropriate to attract and retain talented people: considered the chief risk officers report on the remuneration policy, which confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are consistent with, and promote, effective risk management throughout the organisation through the consideration of remuneration design, performance of the control environment, profit related pay targets, calculation of the bonus pool, and share plan awards: oversaw the new disclosures required in the directors remuneration report: ensured incentives continued to be appropriate and to align company and shareholders: approved the grant of share awards under the groups deferred, retention and LTIP plans: Padraic OConnor considered the salary and bonus awards for 2013 for executive directors, heads of control functions and other officers: approved the fee awards for non-executive directors and The membership of the remuneration committee remained recommended the chairmans fees to the board: and unchanged in 2013 and comprises Padraic OConnor reviewed the executive director employment contracts.
chairman, George Blunden, Dennis Holt and Ken Sroka.
Further information on the work of the remuneration committee Responsibilities of the committee is set out in the directors remuneration report.
The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: set the remuneration policy for the group.
The objective of such policy shall be to ensure that members of the executive management of the company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the company: recommend and where appropriate approve targets for performance related pay schemes and seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements: recommend the remuneration of the chairman of the company, the chief executive, the executive directors, the direct reports to the chief executive, the company secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
No director or manager shall be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration: obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration in other companies: and appoint and review the performance of remuneration committee consultants Deloitte LLP.
com Beazley 71 Annual report 2013 Statement of corporate governance continued Nomination committee Policy on gender and other diversification We continually review our approach to diversity and our aim is to have nurtured diverse employees across the business who are given the tools and opportunities to progress their career within Beazley.
In order to achieve this we are: supporting, mentoring and encouraging individuals from diverse backgrounds to grow and develop within Beazley: establishing leadership and sponsorship of our vision at the most senior level of our organisation: regularly reviewing our employment policies and practices with input from our people to ensure they support our diversity objectives: building in accessibility from the start when developing new products and services: and taking positive action to ensure all employees receive equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, development, Dennis Holt promotion and remuneration.
Key activities in 2013 During 2013 the committee: The nomination committee is chaired by Dennis Holt and completed the search for a replacement for Gordon Hamilton currently comprises George Blunden, Andrew Horton and who left in March 2013.
The nomination committee prepared Ken Sroka.
a job specification, including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
An executive search consultancy Responsibilities of the committee firm, Zygos, was appointed to conduct a search for the role.
The committees main responsibilities are to, inter alia: On appointment, Zygos was briefed on the specific criteria regularly review the structure, size and composition including necessary for the role.
Angela Crawford-Ingle was appointed the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required of to the board on 27 March 2013 and assumed the chair of the the board compared to its current and projected position: audit and risk committee: give full consideration to succession planning for executive oversaw the completion of the recommendations and actions and non-executive directors and in particular for the key arising from the 2012 board review.
The 2013 review was roles of chairman and chief executive, senior executives and conducted internally through questionnaires.
No significant any other such member of the senior management as it is matters were identified and the committee concluded that relevant to consider: the board is balanced with appropriate skills and ensure the directors have the required skills and competence competence.
Some areas for process improvement were review annually the time required from non-executive noted and the committee will oversee the completion of the directors: action plan in 2014: review the results of the board performance evaluation reviewed the performance of management and considered process that relate to the composition and skills and the board and committee succession plans: competencies of the board and ensure an appropriate ensured that director development plans were implemented response to development needs: and that the board collectively received relevant training: and recommend to the board the appointments for the role of ensured board members are able to allocate sufficient time senior independent director, chairman and membership to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
of board committees: and recommended all directors for re-election by shareholders under the annual re-election provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
