DIRECTORS REPORT BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 7 Corporate governance The Company has adopted a policy that the composition of the To comply with the UK Listing Regime, the Company must Board of Directors is at all times such that i a majority of the comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Directors are independent of the Manager and any company in Code.
The Company is also required to comply with the Code the same group as the Manager: ii the Chairman of the Board of of Corporate Governance issued by the Guernsey Financial Directors is free from any conflicts of interest and is independent Services Commission.
of the Manager and of any company in the same group as the Manager: and iii no more than one director, partner, employee or The Company is a member of the Association of Investment professional adviser to the Manager or any company in the same Companies the AIC and by complying with the AIC Code of group as the Manager may be a Director of the Company at any Corporate Governance AIC Code is deemed to comply with one time.
both the UK Corporate Governance Code and Guernsey Code of Corporate Governance.
The Company has adopted a Code of Directors dealings in shares, which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings The Board has considered the principles and recommendations contained in the LSEs Listing Rules.
of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, The Companys risk exposure and the effectiveness of its risk as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set management and internal control systems are reviewed by the Audit out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out Committee and by the Board at their meetings.
The Board believes additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place to specific relevance to the Company.
identify, mitigate and manage the risks to which it is exposed.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and In view of its non-executive and independent nature, the Board recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC considers that it is not necessary for there to be a Nomination Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, Committee or a Remuneration Committee as anticipated by will provide better information to Shareholders.
To ensure ongoing the AIC Code.
The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the compliance with these principles the Board receives and reviews Nomination and Remuneration Committees, although the Board a report from the Secretary, at each quarterly meeting, identifying has included a separate Remuneration Report on page 12 of whether the Company is in compliance and recommending any these Financial Statements.
The Board has adopted a Nomination changes that are necessary.
Policy covering procedures for nominations to the Board and to Board committees.
For new appointments to the Board, The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC nominations are sought from the Directors and from other Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance relevant parties and candidates are then interviewed by an ad hoc Code throughout the accounting period, except as set out below.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed relating to: without undue disruption.
An induction programme has been prepared for future Director appointments.
the role of the chief executive The Directors were appointed for an initial term of three years.
executive directors remuneration In line with the AIC Code, as the Company is a FTSE 250 listed the need for an internal audit function company, Section 20.3 of the Companys Articles requires all Directors to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual whistle-blowing policy General Meeting of the Company on 10 June 2013, Shareholders For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained re-elected all the Directors of the Company.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers The Board has given careful consideration to the these provisions are not relevant to the position of the recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards.
Company being an externally managed investment company As recommended in the Davies Report, the Board has reviewed with a Board formed exclusively of non-executive Directors.
The its composition and believes that the current appointments Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provide an appropriate range of skills and experience.
The Company does not have employees, hence no extend its diversity, the Board is committed to implementing the whistle-blowing policy is necessary.
However, the Directors have recommendations of the Davies Report as part of its succession satisfied themselves that the Companys service providers have planning over future years.
appropriate whistle-blowing policies and procedures and seek regular confirmation from the service providers that nothing has arisen under those policies and procedures which should be brought to the attention of the Board.
