REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 13 Report of the Audit Committee 31 December 2013 Independent Auditor On the following pages, we present the Audit Committees the KPMG Channel Islands Limited KPMG has been the Committee Report for 2013, setting out the Committees Independent Auditor from the date of the initial listing on the structure and composition, principal duties and key activities London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with audit rotation during the year.
As in previous years, the Committee has reviewed requirements, Deborah Smith was replaced by Lee Clark as the the Companys financial reporting, the independence and audit leader and opinion signatory after the conclusion of the effectiveness of the Independent Auditor and the internal control 2011 audit.
and risk management systems of the service providers.
The independence and objectivity of the independent auditor is Structure and Composition reviewed by the Committee which also reviews the terms under The Committee is chaired by Christopher Legge and its other which the Independent Auditor is appointed to perform non-audit members are Huw Evans and Anthony Hall.
The Committee has also established pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement of the auditor to Appointment to the Committee is for a period up to three years provide audit, assurance and tax services.
These policies and which may be extended for two further three year periods procedures state that the external auditor may not provide a provided that the majority of the Committee remains independent service which: of the Manager.
Anthony Hall and Christopher Legge are currently serving their third term of three years.
Huw Evans is currently places them in a position to audit their own work serving his second term.
An induction program is provided for new Committee members and on-going training is available for all creates a mutuality of interest members as required.
results in the Independent Auditor functioning as a manager or The Committee conducts formal meetings at least four times a employee of the Company year.
The table on page 6 sets out the number of Committee puts the Independent Auditor in the role of advocate of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2013 and the Company the number of such meetings attended by each committee member.
The Independent Auditor is invited to attend those The audit and non-audit fees proposed by the auditor each year meetings at which the annual and interim reports are considered.
are reviewed by the Committee taking into account the Companys The Independent Auditor and the Committee will meet together structure, operations and other requirements during the period and without representatives of either the Administrator or Manager the Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
being present if either considers this to be necessary.
The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code Principal duties introduced a recommendation that the independent audit be put The role of the Committee includes: out to tender every ten years.
The Committee has noted this and will develop a plan for tendering at the appropriate time.
monitoring the integrity of the published Financial Statements of the Company Key Activities in 2013 The following sections discuss the assessment made by the reviewing and reporting to the Board on the significant issues Committee during the year: and judgements made in the preparation of the Companys published Financial Statements, having regard to matters Significant Financial Statement Issues communicated by the Independent Auditor, significant financial The Committees review of the annual Financial Statements returns to regulators and other financial information focused on the following: monitoring and reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the Independent Auditor and their independence The Companys investment in the Master Fund had a fair value of US$2.25 billion as at 31 December 2013 and represents considering and making recommendations to the Board on the substantially all the net assets of the Company and as such is appointment, reappointment, replacement and remuneration to the biggest factor in relation to the accuracy of the Financial the Companys independent auditor Statements.
This investment is valued in accordance with the monitoring and reviewing the internal control and risk Accounting Policies set out in note 3 to the Audited Financial management systems of the service providers Statements.
The Financial Statements of the Master Fund for the year ended 31 December 2013 were audited by KPMG Details of the Committees formal duties and responsibilities are Cayman Islands who issued an unmodified audit opinion dated set out in the Committees terms of reference, which can be 21 March 2014.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Financial obtained from the Companys Administrator.
Statements of the Master Fund and the Accounting Policies and determined the fair value of the investment as at 31 December 2013 is reasonable.
14 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Report of the Audit Committee continued 31 December 2013 Key Activities in 2013 continued The annual budget for both the audit and non-audit related This matter was discussed during the planning and final stage services were presented to the Committee for pre-approval.
of the audit and there were no significant divergence of views between the Board and the Independent Auditor.
The Committee considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company.
The Committee does not consider Effectiveness of the Audit that the provision of these non-audit services is a threat to the The Committee held formal meetings with KPMG during the objectivity and independence of the audit.
Further, the Committee course of the year: 1 before the start of the audit to discuss has obtained KPMGs confirmation that the services provided formal planning, discuss any potential issues and to agree the by other KPMG member firms to the wider Brevan Howard scope that will be covered and 2 after the audit work was organisation does not prejudice its independence.
concluded to discuss any significant issues.
Internal Control The Board considered the effectiveness and independence The Committee has examined the need for an internal audit of KPMG by using a number of measures, including but not function.
The Committee considered that the systems and limited to:- procedures employed by the Manager and the Administrator, including their internal audit functions, provided sufficient The audit plan presented to them before the start of the audit assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, has been maintained.
An The review and challenge of the audit findings report including internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore variations from the original plan considered unnecessary.
Changes to audit personnel The Committee examined externally prepared assessments Requesting feedback from both the Manager and of the control environment in place at the Manager and the the Administrator Administrator, with the latter providing a Service Organisation Control SOC1 report.
In addition, the Committee also visited Further to the above, during each year, the Committee performs a the offices of the Manager and conducted discussions with its specific evaluation of the performance of the Independent Auditor.
No significant findings have been noted This is supported by the results of questionnaires completed by during the year.
the Committee covering areas such as the quality of the audit team, business understanding, audit approach and management.
Conclusion and Recommendation This questionnaire was part of the process by which the After reviewing various reports such as the operational and Committee assessed the effectiveness of the audit.
risk management framework and performance reports from management, consulting where necessary with KPMG, and There were no significant adverse findings from the 2013 evaluation.
assessing the significant Financial Statement issues listed on page 13, the Committee is satisfied that the Financial Statements Audit fees and Safeguards on Non-Audit Services appropriately address the critical judgements and key estimates The table below summarises the remuneration paid by the both in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
Company to KPMG and to other KPMG member firms for audit The Committee is also satisfied that the significant assumptions and non-audit services provided to the Company during the years used for determining the value of assets and liabilities have been ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012. appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
Year ended Year ended The Committee further concludes that the Financial Statements, 31.12.13 31.12.12 taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the KPMG Channel Islands Limited Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Annual audit 26,300 23,000 Interim review 8,500 8,500 The Independent Auditor reported to the Committee that no material misstatements were found in the course of its work.
Furthermore, both the Manager and the Administrator confirmed Other KPMG member firms to the Committee that they were not aware of any material German Tax Services 24,775 24,257 misstatements including matters relating to the presentation of the US Tax Services 11,497 11,761 Financial Statements.
The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the Independent Auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with The German and US Tax services are provided in relation to diligence and professional scepticism.
investor tax reporting requirements for those countries.
The German tax services have been discontinued with effect from 1 January 2014.
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 15 Conclusion and Recommendation continued Consequent to the review process on the effectiveness of the independent audit and the review of audit and non-audit services, the Committee has recommended that KPMG be reappointed for the coming financial year.
For any questions on the activities of the Committee not addressed in the foregoing, a member of the Audit Committee remains available to attend each Annual General Meeting to respond to such questions.
Christopher Legge Audit Committee Chairman 27 March 2014
