Governance Corporate governance statement CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION THE BOARD Corporate governance is the process by which the board of Board composition directors of a company looks after shareholders interests and The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors, by which it seeks to enhance shareholder value.
Shareholders allof whom are independent of the Companys Investment hold the directors responsible for the stewardship of a Manager.
Mr Buchan acted as Senior Independent Director companys affairs, delegating authority and responsibility to during the year.
The provision of the UK Code A.
2.1 which the directors to manage the company on their behalf and relates to the combination of the roles of the chairman and holding them accountable for its performance.
chief executive does not apply as the Company has no executive directors.
The Directors biographies, on page 21, The Board is ultimately responsible for framing and executing demonstrate a breadth of investment, commercial, the Companys strategy and for closely monitoring risks.
accounting, finance and professional experience which Weaim to run our Company in a manner which is responsible enables them to provide effective strategic leadership and and consistent with our belief in honesty, transparency and proper governance of theCompany.
In our view, good governance means managing our business well and engaging effectively with investors.
Board independence and tenure Weconsider the practice of good governance to be an integral The Boards individual independence, including that of the part of the way we manage the Company and we are Chairman, has been considered and con rmed, and this committed to maintaining high standards of financial independence allows all of the Directors to sit on the reporting, transparency and business integrity.
The Board is of the view thatlength of service will not necessarily compromise the As a UK-listed investment trust company our principal independence or contribution of directors of an investment reporting obligation is driven by the UK Corporate Governance trust company, where continuity and experience can add Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council signi cantly to the strength of the Board.
It is considered in September 2012.
However, as listed investment trust thatMessrs Barby and Buchan, who have each servedas a companies differ in many ways from other listed companies, Director for over nine years, continue to be independent in the Association of Investment Companies has drawn up its both character and judgement and that thereare no own set of guidelines, the AIC Code of Corporate Governance relationships or circumstances which are likely toaffect the the AIC Code issued in February 2013, which addresses the judgement of any Director.
governance issues relevant to investment companies and meets the approval of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company does not have a chief executive as day-to-day management of the Companys affairs is delegated to the The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting Investment Manager.
None of the Directors has a service Councils website at frc.
The AIC Code is available from contract with the Company.
The terms of their appointment the Association of Investment Companies at theaic.
are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join the Board.
Copies of these letters are available on request from the This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, Companys registered of ce and will be available at the explains how the Board deals with its responsibility, authority AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Diversity CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE The Board supports the principle of boardroom diversity STATEMENT raisedin Lord Davies review of Women on Boards.
Our The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report Company is highly specialised and our priority to shareholders to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
is to have a Board with the specialist abilities and technical Itshould be noted that as an investment trust, most of the mining experience to look after the Companys investments.
Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third Inaddition, the Board should be able to demonstrate with parties, the Company has no employees and the Directors are conviction that any new appointee would make a meaningful non-executive.
Thus, not all of the provisions of the UK Code contribution.
We also focus on diversity in its broadest sense, are directly applicable to the Company.
in terms of expertise, geographic background, gender and race.
The Board should have a blend of skills and attributes The Board considers that the Company has complied with the that is appropriate to its needs: we believe that gender is an recommendations of the AIC Code and the provisions contained important element and one we should aspire to on the basis within the UK Code that are relevant to the Company throughout that the expertise is available.
this accounting period, except where explained below, and this statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
[30] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
