Governance Report of the audit & management engagementcommittee As Chairman of the Companys Audit & Management X reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost effectiveness, Engagement Committee the Committee I am pleased to independence and objectivity of the external auditor: present the Committees first formal report to shareholders onthe effectiveness of the external audit process and how this X reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the has been assessed for the year ended 31 December 2013. audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditor and the terms of its engagement: ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES X reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the The Company has established a separately chaired Committee following financial year, with a focus on the identi cation whose duties include considering and recommending to the of areas of audit risk, and consideration of the Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: financial statements, and providing an opinion as to whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and X reviewing the role of the Board, the Investment Manager and understandable and provides the information necessary for third party service providers in an effective audit process: shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee also reviews the external X reviewing the ef ciency of the external audit process and auditors report thereon and is responsible for reviewing and the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit forming an opinion on the effectiveness of the external team, and making a recommendation to the Board with auditprocess and audit quality.
Other duties which include respect to the reappointment of the auditor: reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies, ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems X considering the quality of the formal audit report to and standards, considering the remuneration of the Investment shareholders: Manager and reviewing the terms of the investment management agreement are set out in more detail below.
X reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys Theterms of reference of the Committee are available on accounting policies: thewebsite at blackrock.
X ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The two planned andstandards: and meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to approve the half yearly and annual results and the Committee receives X considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager information from the Investment Managers corporate audit and reviewing the terms of the investment management and compliance departments.
The Committee does not consider agreement.
that as an investment trust company it needs to hold an additional meeting, although this is kept under review.
The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the COMPOSITION Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, All of the Directors are members of the Committee, which is canraise concerns about possible improprieties in matters chaired by Mr Buchan.
The Directors biographies are given on ofnancial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect page 21 of the Annual Report and the Board considers that at the Company.
least one member of the Committee has suf cient recent and relevant financial experience for the Committee to discharge SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Committee to enable him to be kept fully THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL informed of any issues which may arise.
STATEMENTS During the year, the Committee considered a number of RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF THE EXTERNAL signi cant issues and areas of key audit risk in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Committee AUDIT reviewed the external audit plan at an early stage and During the year, the principal activities of the Committee concluded that the appropriate areas of audit risk relevant included: tothe Company had been identi ed and that suitable audit procedures had been put in place to obtain reasonable X considering and recommending to the Board for approval assurance that the financial statements as a whole would be the contents of the half yearly and annual financial free of material misstatements.
The table on page 37 sets out statements and reviewing the external auditors report the key areas of risk identi ed and also explains how these thereon: were addressed.
[36] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC significant issue How the issue was addressed The accuracy of the valuation of The Board reviews detailed portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout the year and receives theinvestment portfolio con rmation from the Investment Manager that the pricing basis is appropriate and in line with relevant accounting standards as adopted by the Company.
The audit includes checks on the existence and ownership of investments.
The audit also includes a check of pricing back to source data to con rm that the correct valuation basis has been adopted in accordance with the accounting policies as disclosed in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
The risk of misappropriation of The Board reviews reports of the service providers on key controls over assets of the Company.
Any assets and unsecured ownership signi cant issues are reported by the Investment Manager to the Board.
The audit includes checks on ofinvestments the existence and ownership of investments.
This includes reviewing the period end reconciliation of the Companys records to those of the custodian and obtaining con rmation of all securities held at theperiod end and agreeing all securities held from the Companys records to those of the custodian.
The accuracy of the calculation The management fee is calculated in accordance with the contractual terms in the investment ofmanagement fees management agreement by the administrator, BNPP, and is reviewed in detail by the Investment Manager and is also subject to a review by the Board.
The audit includes a re-performance test to con rm that the management fees were correctly calculated in accordance with the investment management agreement.
The risk that income is overstated, The Board reviews income forecasts, including special dividends, and receives explanations from the incomplete or inaccurate through Investment Manager for any variations or signi cant movements from previous forecasts and prior year failure to recognise proper income numbers.
The audit includes checks on the completeness and accuracy of income, and also checks that entitlements or to apply the this has been recognised in accordance with stated accounting policies.
appropriate accounting treatment for recognition of income As the provision of portfolio valuation, fund accounting and There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys administration services is delegated to the Companys choice of auditor.
Other assurance service fees of 6,000 Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK excluding VAT paid to Ernst and Young LLP relate to their Limited, who sub-delegate fund accounting to a third party review of the half yearly financial statements 2012: 6,000 service provider, and the provision of custody services is relating to the review of the half yearly financial statements and 198,000 relating to tax and structuring services provided in provided by Bank of New York Mellon International Limited, connection with the acquisition of investments.
the Committee has also reviewed the Service Organisation Control reports SOC 1 and Audit and Assurance Faculty AAF The auditor has indicated its willingness to continue in of ce reports prepared by the Investment Manager, custodian and and resolutions proposing its reappointment and authorising fund accountants where relevant to ensure that the relevant the Directors to determine its remuneration for the ensuing year control procedures are in place to cover these areas of risk as will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
identi ed above and are adequate and appropriate and have been con rmed as operating effectively by their reporting accountants.
ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICACY OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has acted in the Committee work closely with BlackRock to obtain a good this role since the launch of the Company in December 1993. understanding of the progress and ef ciency of the audit.
The Committee, in conjunction with the Board, is committed to The Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review reviewing this appointment on a regular basis to ensure that the ofthe effectiveness of the external audit process and audit Company is receiving an optimal level of service.
This includes a review of the following areas: also considers the risk associated with audit rms withdrawing from the market and the relationship with the Companys X the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit auditor.
The appointment of the auditor is reviewed each year team: and the audit partner changes at least every five years.
The Committee is mindful that under provision C. 3.7 of the UK X the expertise of the audit rm and the resources available Corporate Governance Code the external audit contract of FTSE to it: 350 companies should be put out to tender at least every ten years.
The Board will therefore review alternative audit service X identi cation of areas of audit risk: providers during 201 5, the final year of the current tenure of the audit partner.
EU audit reform proposals are also currently X planning, scope and execution of the audit: under consideration.
X consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [37] Governance Report of the audit & management engagementcommittee continued X the role of the Board, the Manager and third party service CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL providers in an effective audit process: REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The production and the audit of the Companys Annual X communications by the auditor with the Committee: Reportand Financial Statements is a comprehensive process requiring input from a number of different contributors.
One of X how the auditor supports the work of the Committee and the key governance requirements of a Companys financial how the audit contributes added value: statements is for the Annual Report and Financial Statements to befair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a X a review of independence and objectivity of the audit conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the rm:and Committee advise on whether it considers that the Annual Report and Financial Statements ful ls these requirements, X the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders.
and in so doing the Committee has given consideration to the following: Feedback in relation to the audit process and the ef cacy of the Investment Manager in performing their role is also sought X the comprehensive documentation that is in place setting from relevant involved parties, notably the audit partner and out the controls over the production of the Annual Report, team.
The external auditor is invited to attend the Committee including the veri cation processes in place to deal with meetings at which they have the opportunity to meet with the factual content: theCommittee without representatives of the Investment Manager being present.
X the comprehensive reviews that are undertaken at different levels in the production process, by the The effectiveness of the Board and the Investment Manager in Investment Manager, the third party service providers the external audit process is assessed principally in relation to responsible for accounting services and the Committee the timely identi cation and resolution of any process errors that aim to ensure consistency and overall balance: or control breaches that might impact the Companys net asset values and accounting records.
It is also assessed by X the controls that are in place at the Investment Manager reference to how successfully any issues in respect of areas of and third party service providers to ensure the accounting judgement are identi ed and resolved, the quality completeness and accuracy of the Companys financial and timeliness of papers analysing these judgements, the records and the security of the Companys assets: and booking of any audit adjustments arising, and the timely provision of draft public documents for review by the auditor X the existence of satisfactory control reports that have been and the Committee.
reviewed and reported on by external auditors to verify the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Investment To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the Manager and the Companys third party service providers external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills SOC 1 reports and Audit and Assurance Faculty AAF and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier reports.
ofnon-audit services and whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to their objectivity and As a result of the work performed the Committee has concluded independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the that the Annual Report for the year ended 31December 2013, provision of such services.
On an annual basis, Ernst & Young taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and LLP review the independence of their relationship with the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Company and report to the Board, providing details of any the Companys performance, business model and strategy other relationship with the Investment Manager.
As part of this andhas reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards review, the Committee also receives information about policies conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring Directors Responsibilities on page 35. compliance with relevant requirements from the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation of audit partners COLIN BUCHAN and staff, the level of fees that the Company pays in proportion Chairman to the overall fee income of the rm, and the level of related Audit and Management Engagement Committee fees, details of any relationships between the audit rm and 20 February 2014 its staff and the Company as well as an overall con rmation from the auditor of their independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst& Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Committee has concluded that the audit in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 was effective.
[38] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
