Chairmans Statement Feedback from the Companys larger Shareholders has suggested that they too believe that this is a satisfactory situation, particularly against a backdrop of generally widening discounts for the broader hedge fund sector.
We shall continue, where possible, to seek to maintain that stability and the Companys Cash Reserve policy as defined and described on page 21 will continue to be operated for the foreseeable future.
REGULATION & GOVERNANCE The period since the financial crisis has been marked by considerable regulatory changes, some of which have affected the Company.
During 2013 the Board and its committees considered, amongst others, FATCA, the impact of the EUs Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the FCAs Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments regulations and the considerable changes being introduced by the Financial Reporting Council which have impacted these financial statements.
For the Company to meet the highest standards of corporate governance, as we intend, these changes must be and have been embraced in a manner that is proportionate and appropriate to the Companys needs.
One notable outcome is that the Company has recently established a separate Risk Committee to oversee investment risk management.
This Risk Committee, chaired by Paul Meader, will report to you regularly henceforth.
Continuing the theme of good governance, the Company has recently completed its latest externally facilitated governance assessment, the outcome of which has attested the value of the time and experience devoted by the directors and the major service providers to the Company.
The review confirmed that the company is fully compliant with the requirements of the AIC Code or, where not in compliance, a full explanation for this is provided, and that the board functions effectively and is well led by the Chairman.
A number of minor recommendations have been made by Optimus and the board is currently evaluating these with a view to implementation.
In December 2013, the Companys administrator, Anson Fund Managers Limited, was acquired by the JTC Group, an independent, global financial services group.
Board members have met with JTC on a number of occasions and we are satisfied with their approach and resources as well as with the continuity of the quality personnel from Anson.
You should, however, note the consequential changes to contact addresses, details of which can be found on the Companys website, www.
