Report of the Directors from Mr Dodd who has waived all fees in connection with his appointment to the Company and there are no share options or other performance related benefits available to them.
The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
In accordance with Principle Seven of the AIC Code the Board has undertaken a second, externally facilitated evaluation by Optimus Group Limited who previously appraised the Board in 2011.
The 2011 external valuation confirmed that the Company observes high standards of corporate governance and the Board confirms that there are no outstanding recommendations from this evaluation.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE A Nomination Committee has been established consisting of Mr Crowder, Mr Meader, Mr Hooley, Mr Le Prevost, Mr Dodd with Mr Crowder being appointed as Chairman of this Committee, except when the Committee considers any matter in connection with the Chairmanship in which case the Committee will elect another Chairman.
Given that the Board consists solely of non-executive directors, each of whom are members of the Committee, the Board does not consider the Chairman being a member of the Committee to be inappropriate.
The function of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company goes through a formal process of reviewing the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board, identifying the experience and skills which may be needed and those individuals who might best provide them and to ensure that the individual has sufficient available time to undertake the tasks required.
When considering the composition of the Board, Directors will be mindful of diversity, inclusiveness and meritocracy.
The outside directorships and broader commitments of Directors are also monitored by the Nomination Committee.
The Board had undertaken the aforementioned formal review of the balance, independence and effectiveness of the Board therefore the Nomination Committee did not meet.
The Board concluded it did not have any objection to the current commitments of its members, including the shared directorship listed above and that no changes to the composition of the Board were required.
The Company supports the AIC Code provision that Boards should consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when making appointments and is committed to ensuring it receives information from the widest range of perspectives and backgrounds.
The Companys aim as 42 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors regards the composition of the Board is that it should have a balance of experience, skills and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board as a whole to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the Company agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should seek to have diversity on its Board, it does not consider that this can be best achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets and appointments will continue to be made based wholly on merit.
Accordingly should changes to the Board be required the Nomination Committee would have regard to the Boards Diversity Policy that when recruiting Directors, a comparative analysis of candidates qualifications and experience, applying pre-established clear, neutrally formulated and unambiguous criteria will be utilised to determine the most suitable candidate for the specific position sought.
Following the notification of the resignation of Jonathan Hooley, announced 13 March 2014, the Nomination Committee met to identify the experience and skills which will be needed following the departure of Mr. Hooley and those individuals who might best provide them.
The search for a suitable replacement is currently being undertaken.
A review of the skills and experience of the existing Board members, who all held office throughout the Financial Year, is outlined below: Director Key Skills and Experience Richard Crowder Wide knowledge of Investment management as well as broad Chairman experience of non-executive directorship, chairmanship and executive directorship in quoted and unquoted companies.
Paul Meader An experienced portfolio manager with in-depth knowledge of Senior Independent Director private wealth management and institutional asset management.
Long term experience of asset allocation, fixed income and hedge funds.
Significant financial services, fund management, regulatory and non-executive director experience.
43 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors Director Key Skills and Experience Jonathan Hooley Wide-ranging knowledge of Audit, financial reporting, financial Chairman of Audit Committee services, tax together with substantial financial and nonexecutive directorship experience.
John Le Prevost Extensive knowledge of Investment company administration, regulation, listing rules, corporate structuring and substantial non-executive director experience of listed companies in the UK and the Far East.
Andrew Dodd Extensive knowledge and experience of Hedge funds, asset liability management, capital markets, financial management and risk analysis All Directors with the exception of Jonathan Hooley who will resign with effect from 25 April 2014 will put themselves forward for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
On 8 August 2013, the most recent AGM, shareholders re-elected all Directors of the Company.
The Board believes that changes to its composition, including succession planning for the Chairman or other director, can be managed without undue disruption to the Companys operations.
To date no Director of the Company has resigned.
Directors are able and encouraged to provide statements to the Board of their concerns and ensure that any items of concern are recorded in the Board minutes and the Chairman encourages all Directors to present their views on matters in an open forum.
The Board is also scheduled to consider the tenure of Directors once any Director has been appointed to the Board for a continuous period of nine years: this is currently scheduled to occur in 2015 for Messrs Crowder, Meader and Le Prevost.
Whilst the Board is of the view that directors can continue in certain circumstances beyond a tenure of 9 years, thereafter such Directors will be subject to increasing scrutiny as to their effectiveness and independence.
