Report of the Directors Director Quarterly Board Meetings Ad Hoc Meetings Richard Crowder 4 of 4 13 of 15 Andrew Dodd 3 of 4 7 of 15 Jonathan Hooley 4 of 4 13 of 15 Paul Meader 4 of 4 14 of 15 John Le Prevost 4 of 4 12 of 15 Letters of appointment for non-executive Directors do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board duties as the Board considers that the time required by Directors may fluctuate depending on demands of the Company and other events.
Therefore it is required that each Director will allocate sufficient time to the Company to perform their duties effectively and expected that each Director will attend all quarterly Board meetings and meetings of committees of which they are a member.
The Chairman has confirmed that he considers the performance of each director to be effective and that each director demonstrates continued commitment to their role.
AUDIT COMMITTEE An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hooley, Mr Meader and Mr Crowder, Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost are entitled to attend.
Mr Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
During the year under review the Audit Committee met three times and all members of the Audit Committee attended all meetings.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly reports and financial statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee will monitor the performance of the Auditor and may, if deemed appropriate, consider arranging for the external audit contract to be tendered in 2016 being 10 years from the initial appointment with the aim of ensuring a high quality and effective audit.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually, shortly before the Board meets to consider the Companys half-yearly and annual financial reports, and reports to the Board with its deliberations and recommendations and also has an annual planning meeting with the Auditor.
The Audit 39 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference based on the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators recommended terms and provides a forum through which the Companys external auditors report to the Board.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Companys service providers with the majority of information being directly sourced from the Administrator and the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Companys website.
The Audit Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the auditors work and reviews annually prior to providing a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the auditor.
When evaluating the external auditor the Committee has regard to a variety of criteria including industry experience, independence, reasonableness of audit plan, ability to deliver constructive criticism, effectiveness of communication with Board and the Companys service providers, quality control procedures, management of audit process and added value beyond assurance in audit opinion.
Auditor independence is maintained through limiting non-audit services to tax reporting and auditrelated work that falls within defined categories.
The only non-audit services provided in the Financial year were in relation to the calculation and certification of information to achieve transparent tax status accordingly to German tax laws for investment funds.
All engagements with the Auditor are subject to pre-approval from the Audit Committee and are fully disclosed within the Annual Financial Report for the relevant period.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every five years and the Audit Committee ensures the Auditor has appropriate internal mechanisms in place to ensure its independence.
Chris Matthews was appointed lead audit partner during 2012.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of EY as the Companys external auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Each year the Board examines the Audit Committees performance and effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain appropriate.
Key areas covered included the clarity of the Audit Committees role and responsibilities, the balance of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting its work to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have relevant financial experience and knowledge and ensure that such knowledge remains up to date.
Regarding process, members noted that fulfilling the Audit 40 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
