Directors Report & Governance Corporate Governance Compliance with the Code decision making process and the rigorous level of challenge The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate provided by him evidence that he remains independent in governance and to compliance with the best practice character and judgement.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Details of attendance of the individual members of the Board Code, which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council at its meetings during the year is shown in the table below.
in 2010 and revised in September 2012.
The following statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Maximum Committee Report, the Risk Committee Report and the possible attendance Total Strategic Report explain how the provisions set out in the Code have been applied by the Group and detail the S Miller 14 14 Groups compliance with the provisions of the Code for the D Nicol 14 14 year.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in J Worsley 14 13 1 S Ford 8 7 compliance with the provisions set out in the Code A Knight 14 14 throughout the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013, S Lamport 14 11 except for the following circumstances: 2 A Westenberger 11 11 The requirement under the code B.
1.2 for at least half M Williams 14 14 3 J Matheson 6 6 the Board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise 3 H Algeo 6 6 Non-Executive Directors was not met during the year.
3 I Speke 6 6 The Company is compliant with this provision since the 3 S Soar 6 6 appointment of Ian Dewar on 15 November 2013.
For 3 B Howard 6 6 details of the position before this appointment, see 4 R Bayford 3 3 below section The Board.
5 D McCorkell 0 0 1 In designing schemes of performance-related appointed 20 03 2013 2 appointed 01 01 2013 remuneration, the remuneration of Directors fully 3 resigned 20 03 2013 complies with the provisions in Section D to the Code, 4 resigned 31 12 2012 5 save for Michael Williams, Executive Director which does resigned 22 10 2012 not fully comply with Section D. 1.1 and Schedule A of The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet periodically the Code.
Michael Williams profit share participation is without executive directors present and at least once a year, determined by reference to his own teams investment the Senior Independent Director meets with Non-Executive management performance in line with other investment Directors without the Chairman present.
One third of bonus above 50,000 is compulsorily deferred into shares.
The Board delegates primary responsibility for managing the day to day running of the Group to the Chief Executive, The Board supported by an Executive Committee, see page 40 for At 29 September 2013 the Board had eight members, further details, but maintains a formal schedule of matters comprising the Chairman, four Executive Directors and three which require direct Board oversight and or approval.
David McCorkell resigned as a schedule is approved by the Board annually.
The matters for Director with effect from 22 October 2012.
Jamie Matheson, which approval is retained by the Board include: Henry Algeo, Sarah Soar, Ben Speke and Barry Howard resigned as Directors with effect from 21 March 2013 and Setting of Group strategy and long term objectives: Stephen Ford was appointed on the same date.
Ian Dewar Annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 15 November any material changes to them: 2013.
Jock Worsley, currently the Senior Independent Director, has stated his intention to retire from the Board at Changes to capital or corporate structure: the 2014 AGM.
Angela Knight will be nominated as Senior Interim and Annual report and accounts and financial Independent Director following Jocks retirement in February statements: 2014.
Biographies of all the current directors are presented on pages 32 and 33.
Biographies of the recently appointed Dividend policy and declaration of dividends: Non-Executive Director, Ian Dewar, will be included in the Major capital projects, material contracts, major notice of the AGM.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is investments or disposals: considered by the Board to be independent, notwithstanding the fact that Jock Worsley has served in excess of nine years Changes to Board composition: on the Board.
The non-executive directors provide a strong, Remuneration policy and any introduction of or changes independent element on the Board and are well placed to to share incentive plans: constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of management.
They bring robust opinions, knowledge and Major change in Group Pension Scheme: skill to Board discussions.
The Board has considered Jock Material litigation: and Worselys independence in light of the length of his appointment and is in no doubt that his thinking and Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
39 Corporate Governance continued Additionally, the Board retains direct responsibility for After due consideration, the Chairman confirms that all reviewing Group performance and ensuring that a sound directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate system of internal control and risk management is commitment to the role and recommends that all directors maintained.
be re-elected by shareholders, with the exception of Jock Worsley who retires at the 2014 AGM.
The biographical In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, the Board also details of the Directors can be found on pages 32 and 33. has a separate meeting devoted to reviewing the Groups Ian Dewar has been appointed by the Board after the year strategic objectives, which provides a further opportunity for end and a resolution for his re-appointment will be included all directors and particularly the non-executive directors, to in the notice of AGM, along with biographical details.
ensure that the strategy is rigorously reviewed and challenged and that the processes in place for assessing its Directors Conflicts of Interest implementation areeffective.
The Board has a policy and effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or Development potential conflicts of interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at Appropriate training and induction is made available to newly all Board meetings and gives each Director the opportunity appointed directors, taking into account any previous to raise any conflict of interest they may have, or to update experience they may already have as directors of a public the Board on any change to a previous conflict of interest limited company or otherwise.
Training sessions are already lodged.
A Register of Conflicts is held by the undertaken for the entire Board and individually as Company Secretary and a log of all conflicts raised is appropriate.
All Directors are aware The Roles of the Chief Executive and Chairman that it is their responsibility to raise and update any conflicts There is a clear division of duties between the Chief of interest they may have.
Executive and the Chairman, with roles that have been Committees of the Board clearly defined in writing and are reviewed annually and The Board had five standing committees at the end of the agreed by the Board.
This ensures that a clear balance of year: the Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, power and authority is present.
Audit Committee, Risk Committee and the Executive Board Evaluation Committee.
These Committees have written terms of In line with the Code, a formal evaluation of the Board and its reference, which are reviewed regularly and any Committees is carried out on an annual basis.
In 2013, the amendments approved by the Board.
Minutes of all Board process involved individual directors meeting with the Committee meetings are reviewed by the Board.
Chairman to discuss an agreed list of topics designed to Membership of the Committees is as set out on pages 41 to cover all key areas of Board effectiveness.
The terms of reference of the Committees can be viewed summary of the comments and recommendations were on the Companys website, together with Committee discussed and reviewed by the Board.
related to the performance and structure of the current All the Committees are able to call on independent Board, i. e. since 21 March 2013.
There were no material professional advisers if they consider it necessary.
areas of concern highlighted though some areas for improvement were identified and the Board agreed Executive Committee appropriate actions to address these areas.
Overall, the The Committee comprises the four Executive Directors plus evaluation process confirmed that the Board was operating the Head of Human Resources, the Head of Risk and effectively within a culture that allowed open and challenging Regulation and the Chief Administration Officer.
The role of debate and that all directors individually made valuable the Executive Committee is to manage the day to day contributions and demonstrated commitment to the role.
An running of the Group, including the development and external evaluation of the Board was last conducted in 2011 implementation of strategy, the monitoring of operating and and it is the Boards intention that an external facilitator will financial performance, the prioritisation and allocation of be used next year.
resources and the assessment and control of risk.
Appointment of Directors Nomination Committee The Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act Composition and Responsibilities 2006 and other applicable regulations and policies govern The Committee comprises Sir Stephen Lamport Chairman, the appointment of the directors.
The directors service Jock Worsley, Angela Knight, Simon Miller and David Nicol.
agreements or letters of appointment as applicable are The Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition available for viewing via the Company Secretary.
Directors of the Board and Board Committees to ensure they are may be elected by shareholders in a general meeting or properly constituted and balanced in terms of skills, appointed by the Board of directors in accordance with the experience and diversity.
provisions of the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code all directors will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
40 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report & Governance In addition to this, it: Egon Zehnder does not have any other connection with theCompany.
manages the search process for new directors: Simon Miller, previously Deputy Chairman, was appointed as recommends to the Board the appointment of new Chairman on 21 March 2013, in accordance with the directors: and Boards succession planning.
considers succession plans for the Board and other A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of senior roles.
the committee during the year is shown below: Main activities of the Committee during the year During the year, the Nomination Committee met six times, to Maximum Number of consider the appointment of a new Chief Executive and two number of meetings Non-Executive Directors in addition to its regular review of meetings attended Board composition and succession plans.
The process for S Lamport Chairman 6 6 Board appointments is for the Committee to prepare a role A Knight 6 6 specification following an evaluation of the requirements of a S Miller 6 5 specific role, such as that of the Chief Executive, or of the D Nicol 6 6 J Worsley 6 6 general balance of skills and experience on the Board in the 1 J Matheson 2 1 case of non-executive appointments.
The Committee then appoints independent external search consultants to identify 1 resigned 20 03 2013 suitable candidates, conducts interviews of short-listed candidates, and recommends an appointment subject to Remuneration Committee Board approval.
Recommended candidates are then The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Angela Knight interviewed by all other Board members before an since 21 March 2013 and the other members are Jock appointment is made.
The Board believes that appointments Worsley and Sir Stephen Lamport.
Further information on should be based on merit, compared against objective the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in its criteria, with the ultimate aim of ensuring the Board has the report on page 49. right skills, knowledge and experience that enable it to A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of discharge its responsibilities properly.
Consideration of the the Committee during the year is shown below: benefits of diversity on the Board in all its aspects, including gender, is an important part of this process.
The Board has Maximum Number of reviewed its policy on gender diversity during the year and number of meetings has committed to an aim that at least 25% of its members meetings attended will be women by September 2015.
Women currently 1 represent 12.5% of the Board and 14% of the Executive A Knight Chairman 12 12 S Lamport 12 11 Committee.
Further information on diversity within the Group 2 S Miller 12 12 can be found on page 36.
3 J Worsley 9 9 The Committee interviewed a selection of head-hunters and 1 appointed Chairman 20 03 2013 appointed Egon Zehnder to assist in the recruitment of a 2 resigned as Chairman 20 03 2013 3 chief executive.
David Nicol a Non-Executive member of the resigned 01 01 2013 and appointed 20 03 2013 Board, indicated that he would like his name to be considered.
With immediate effect he took no further part in Audit Committee the selection process.
He was interviewed by the The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Worsley Committee, independently referenced by Egon Zehnder, Chairman, Angela Knight and Sir Stephen Lamport from approved by the regulator and appointed as Chief Executive 21March 2013.
Jack Worsley has notified his intention not on 21 March 2013.
Two other candidates, one internal and to stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM and Ian Dewar will one external, were interviewed for the post.
become Chairman of the Audit Committee after the AGM.
Details of meeting attendance of the individual members of As part of the changes to the composition of the Board the Committee during the year are shown below: made in March 2013 and the planned retirement of Jock Worsley at the 2014 AGM, the Committee identified the Maximum Number of need to appoint two new non-executive directors to the number of meetings Board.
Egon Zehnder was appointed as the external adviser meetings attended for these searches and provided with role specifications 1 J Worsley Chairman 10 10 prepared by the Committee.
Ian Dewar was appointed as A Knight 10 9 non-executive director on 15November 2013.
Ian will 2 S Lamport 5 5 become the Chairman of the Audit Committee following 3 S Miller 5 4 Jock Worsleys retirement at the AGM in February.
The 4 D Nicol 5 5 process for identifying and appointing one other non- 1 appointed Chairman 20 03 2013 executive director is in progress.
2 appointed 20 03 2013 3 resigned 20 03 2013 4 appointed Chairman 01 01 2013 and resigned from Committee 20 03 2013 41 Corporate Governance continued A separate Audit Committee Report is set out on page 46 They report as follows: and provides details of the role, composition, responsibilities i There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and of the Committee and its relationship with internal and managing the significant risks faced by the Group as external auditors.
This has been in place for the period under Board Risk Committee review and up to the date of approval of the annual report The members of the Risk Committee are Angela Knight and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and Chairman, Jock Worsley, Sir Stephen Lamport from accords with the revised Turnbull guidance in the Code.
Any 21March 2013 and the Group Head of Risk and Regulation.
system of internal control is designed to highlight and Further information is given in the Risk Committee Report on manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve page 44. business objectives, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or Details of meeting attendance of the individual members of loss.
The Board has implemented the Three Lines of the committee during the year are shown below: Defence model to ensure a robust and effective framework to manage internal controls and risks across the Maximum Number of organisation.
It facilitates the decision making process while number of meetings providing effective governance around risk management and meetings attended assurance.
1 A Knight Chairman 5 5 2 ii Financial results, key operating statistics and controls are S Lamport 3 3 reported to the Board regularly, and variances are followed J Worsley 5 5 3 S Miller 2 2 up.
Regular reports are received from the Risk & Compliance 4 D Nicol 1 1 and Internal Audit functions.
Head of Regulation and Risk 5 5 iii The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of 1 appointed Chairman 01 01 2013 internal controls and compliance monitoring and believe that 2 appointed 20 03 2013 3 these provide assurance that problems have been identified resigned 20 03 2013 4 appointed 01 01 2013 and resigned 20 03 2013 on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Internal Control and Risk Management annual report and accounts.
Both the Audit Committee and The Board undertakes a full review of all aspects of the the Board Risk Committee assist the Board in discharging its Groups business to identify the main risks to the business review responsibilities.
and the key controls to counter those risks.
The Board iv There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or recognises that its risk management strategy is essential for external procedures through which employees are able to achieving good business governance to protect stakeholders raise any concerns.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establish a system of internal Company Secretary control.
It reviews its effectiveness periodically, by receiving The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the ongoing reports on internal control from the Audit Committee Board on all Corporate Governance matters as well as and the Board RiskCommittee.
ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the services of the An explanation of the Groups Risk framework is given in the Company Secretary and may take, if necessary, Risk Committee report on page 45. independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
Business Continuity Management is embedded within the Insurance business and is reviewed and tested periodically.
The Board The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in recognises the potential operational and financial losses respect of litigation against the Directors.
associated with a service interruption and the importance of maintaining viable business resilience strategies.
The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting to the shareholders that they have done so.
42 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report & Governance Relationship with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by regular communication.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investment Management meet regularly with the Groups institutional investors, analysts and financial press.
Annual and Interim reports are distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and the Groups website is kept up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The Board is provided with regular feedback following meetings with shareholders.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its shareholders.
The Company welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, with the opportunity to ask questions formally at the meeting or more informally with all members of the Board afterwards.
The Companys policy is to announce the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM.
For shareholders who are clients of Brewin Dolphin Limited and who hold their shares in one of our nominee accounts, we provide an on-line voting service on the Group website for shareholders to vote before our AGM.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FCA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Louise Meads Company Secretary 3 December 2013 43
