Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Chairmans Statement monitoring the work of the Groups Internal Audit The Committee met 10 times during 2012 13.
Much of its function and reviewing its effectiveness: time was spent on regular activities as set out in this report.
reviewing regular reports from the Head of Compliance In addition to these matters, the Committees areas of focus and keeping under review the adequacy and included the new systems programme, the Companys effectiveness of the Groups Compliance function: information security framework and compliance with the Retail Distribution Review.
The Committee reviewed reports reviewing the Groups procedures for handling from Internal Audit on a wide range of issues, including allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: management responses and agreed actions.
These, with making recommendations to the Board on the Cyber Threat, will continue to be the areas of focus for appointment or reappointment of the external auditor 2013 2014. and on the approval of their remuneration and terms of Committee members engagement: The current members of the Audit Committee are the reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independent Non-Executive Directors Jock Worsley independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of Chairman, Angela Knight and Sir Stephen Lamport.
The the audit process: and composition of the Committee is reviewed by the Nomination Committee which makes recommendations for change to maintaining and reviewing the policy on the engagement the Board asappropriate.
of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the Jock Worsley has acted as Chairman of the Audit provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
Committee since 1 October 2003, with the exception of the period 1January 2013 to 21 March 2013 when David Nicol The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the was appointed as Chairman of the Committee.
David Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it resigned from the Committee upon his appointment as Chief considers that action or improvement is needed, and making Executive on 21March 2013 and Jock Worsley resumed his recommendations on the steps to be taken.
position as Chairman of the Committee on that date, whilst a Meetings new non-executive director with the requisite skills and The Audit Committee maintains a formal schedule of items experience was sought.
Angela Knight was a member of the that are to be considered at each committee meeting and Committee throughout the period and Sir Stephen Lamport within the annual audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line was appointed to the Committee on 21 March 2013.
Ian with the requirements of the Code and all areas of its remit Dewar was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on are addressed.
The items to be reviewed are agreed by the 15November 2013 and will become Chairman of the Audit Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Committee following Jocks retirement at the AGM in Each member has the right to require reports on additional February 2014. matters ofinterest.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the The Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Investment Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Management, Head of Risk and Regulation and Head of Jock Worsley is a qualified Chartered Accountant and the Internal Audit, normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
At other members of the Committee are financially literate.
The the Committees request, other senior management are Group provides an induction programme for new Audit invited to present reports as relevant to enable the Committee members and ongoing training to enable the Committee to discharge its duties and the external auditors committee members to carry out their duties.
Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on The Audit Committee is a formally constituted Committee of page 41 of the Corporate Governance Report.
the Board whose terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Overview of the work undertaken by the Committee UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The terms of during the year reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its and subsequently referred to the Board for approval.
responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference, through undertaking the following activities: The Audit Committee is responsible for: review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the half-yearly Financial Report and Interim Management Group and any formal announcement relating to the Statements.
In doing so, the Committee received Groups financial performance and reviewing significant reports from the external auditors on their audit of the financial reporting judgements contained therein, prior to Annual Report and Financial Statements and review of their submission to the Board: the half-yearly Financial Report.
Further explanation of reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the the significant issues that the committee considered in Groups internal control systems: relation to the financial statements and how these were addressed is set out below: 46 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report & Governance review of the effectiveness of the external audit process, the value, including impairment of intangible assets the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit and goodwill, client relationships and software with the qualifications, expertise, resources and particular consideration being given to the carrying value independence of the external auditors: of software assets beingdeveloped: consideration of the appropriate timing for an external onerous contracts provisions: provisions were made tender of audit services: during the year primarily in respect of surplus space identified as part of a review of the Groups property review and approval of the Internal Audit annual plan, portfolio and take into account the uncertainty of future review of reports from Internal Audit including rental income: management responses to the findings of the reports and their proposals.
Satisfactory completion of assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension management undertakings arising from these reports is scheme deficit: monitored: the appropriateness of valuation methodologies used to evaluation of the effectiveness of Internal Audit: support the valuation of investments, particularly that of the Groups investment in Euroclear: review of the Companys procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: estimates of shares to be issued and deferred purchase consideration in respect of acquisitions of business or consideration of regular reports from the Groups Head client relationships based on discounted estimates of of Compliance and evaluation of the effectiveness of the future earnings: and Groups Compliance and Risk function: estimates of provisions in relation to outstanding legal consideration of reports on other areas of focus during cases and claims.
the year such as the new systems programme, information security framework and compliance with the After consideration the Committee concluded that the Retail Distribution Review: annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the necessary consideration of a report from the external auditors on information for shareholders to assess performance, their review of the effectiveness of controls across the business model and strategy.
Group and review of a report on management action taken in response to the report: External Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on controls and disclosures made in the annual report and external audit.
The policy sets out inter alia, the categories of financial statements on this matter: any non-audit services which the external auditors will be review and agreement of the scope of the audit work to allowed to undertake and provides an approval process for be undertaken by the external auditors and the fees to the provision of any other non-audit services.
This policy is be paid to the external auditors: available on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website, under the Board Committees subsection.
review of the Audit Committees own terms of reference: and The Board generally only uses the auditors for audit and related activities.
If there is a business case to use the review and assessment of its own effectiveness.
external auditors for the provision of non-audit services, prior The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, permission is required from the Audit Committee which will identifying any matter on which it considers that action or review the proposal to ensure that it will not impact the improvement is needed and makes recommendations on the auditors objectivity and independence.
The majority of tax steps to be taken accordingly.
advisory and similar work is carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of auditors remuneration is Financial reporting and significant financial provided in note 8 to the financial statements.
judgements As part of its evaluation of the independence of the external The Committee reviews whether suitable accounting policies auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements, obtaining support the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the from the external auditors in making these assessments.
role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional The Committee reviewed the following significant financial rules, has not held office for more than five years, and judgements made by management for the year ended any changes in the key audit staff.
The 2012 13 audit 29September 2013, including consideration of the external was the fifth cycle for the current audit partner and a auditors view and challenges made by them during their new lead audit partner has been appointed for the audit, and concluded that the judgements were reasonable 2013 14 audit: andappropriate: 47 Audit Committee Report continued the arrangements for day-to-day management of the the quality of the external auditors reporting on internal audit relationship: controls.
a report from the external auditor describing their Following the annual review of effectiveness, the Audit arrangements to identify, report and manage any Committee recommended to the Board that reappointment conflicts of interest: of the auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval Internal Audit of the provision of non-audit services by the external The Internal Audit function was conducted for the period by auditors: and Grant Thornton LLP.
The Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the the performance of the auditor who were first appointed resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit function.
To fulfil in April 2002 and reappointed following a review in these duties the Audit Committee reviewed: 2007.
Internal Audits methodology, reporting lines and access The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the to the Audit Committee and all members of the Board: Board the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor.
It has been the policy of the Board to Internal Audits plans and its achievement of the planned undertake a major review of the appointment every six years activity: and this review was scheduled for 2013.
However, it was the results of key audits and other significant findings, agreed by the Committee and the Board that the the adequacy of managements response and the appointment of a new Finance Director, new Chief Executive, timeliness of resolution: and transition to a new Chairman of the Audit Committee and transition to a new lead Deloitte audit partner for 2013 14 the timeliness of reporting.
Overview The Committee has considered the existing UK Corporate As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee Governance Code provision for companies to put the has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years of reference and has ensured the independence and and also the FRCs guidance on aligning the timing of such objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the re-tenders with audit engagement partner rotation.
It has Audit Committee will be available at the AGM to answer any also noted the recently published final decision of the questions about the work of the Committee.
Competition Commission, likely to be effective 1 October 2014, including transitional arrangements.
The Committees current intention is that it will initiate a re-tendering process Jock Worsley before the end of the current audit partners rotation Chairman of the Audit Committee 2017 18.
This will be kept under review and the Committee 3 December 2013 will use its regular reviews of auditor effectiveness to assess the most appropriate time for such a re-tender during that period.
The Audit Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of replacement external auditor.
The external auditor meets privately with the Audit Committee at least twice a year without senior executive management beingpresent.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditor is carried out by the Audit Committee, taking into consideration: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the external auditor fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and 48 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
