Risk Committee Report Board Risk Committee Chairmans Statement The Committee is responsible for reviewing: Assessing, quantifying and controlling risks is a vital the alignment of the Groups strategy to the risk ingredient of good governance for all companies.
In financial appetite, tolerance and policy of the Board: services, risk and risk management is of particular importance.
The Company has been reviewing and changing the quality of the Group operating structure as a a number of aspects of its operation as set out elsewhere in mitigation and key control to Group-wide risks: this report and as part of this process, we have been making the quality and timeliness of the Companys overall risk considerable enhancements to the Groups risk assessment processes that inform the Boards decision management during the year.
The risk register has been making: redesigned to categorise risk exposures more easily and to use a common framework for historical loss, risk appetite the Companys capability to identify and manage new and the assessment of risk profile.
risk types and the overall adequacy of stress testing: Further improvements will be made in 2013 14 by creating a reports detailing any material breaches of risk limits and clearer framework for aligning key risk indicators with the the adequacy of proposed action: Boards appetite for risk and harmonising risk assessment the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys risk methodology for operational and regulatory risks.
Taken management systems including procedures for the together, this will strengthen clarity and consistency across identification, assessment and reporting of risks and all types of operational risk.
reviewing and approving the statements to be included The Committee has remained closely interested in the in the annual report concerning risk management: and development of the Groups investment processes.
We see the remit of the risk management function and ensuring this as a key part of the Group-wide initiative to remain in the it has adequate resources and appropriate access to forefront of efficiency and standards that underpin excellence information to enable it to perform its function effectively of service and assurance that all our clients are treated fairly and in accordance with the relevant professional and receive suitable advice.
The Committee also ensures the function This report sets out a summary of the Committees work has adequate independence.
across the last year and will be building on these issues in The Committee reports on its proceedings to the Board and the yearahead.
on any appropriate matters to the Audit Committee, Committee members identifying any issues it considers where action or The Board Risk Committee the Committee is chaired by improvement is needed and making recommendations on Angela Knight and comprises three independent Nonthe steps to be taken.
The Board Risk Committee works Executive Directors Angela Knight, Sir Stephen Lamport and closely with the Audit Committee in ensuring that all aspects Jock Worsley plus the Group Head of Risk and Regulation.
of the Groups risks are considered.
Other executives such as the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Investment Management and representatives from internal and external audit are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
Role and responsibilities of the Board Risk Committee The Committee was formed in October 2011 in recognition of the increasing importance and complexity of risk.
It has assumed the responsibilities in relation to risk that were previously under the remit of the Audit Committee.
The Committee has oversight of the risk management framework of the Group and specifically the effectiveness of risk management, governance and regulation activity within the Group.
The Committee supports the Board in its consideration of the business activities that expose the business to material risks, taking into account forwardlooking aspects of risk exposure.
The Committee advises the Board on the considerations and process for setting the Risk Appetite and related tolerances.
The Board retains responsibility for approval of the Risk Appetite.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
44 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report & Governance At an executive level the Risk Management Committee Risks and uncertainties meets quarterly to review risk and compliance management The principal risks to the business are assessed and information and progress mitigation initiatives.
The Risk reviewed by the Risk Management Committee and Executive Management Committee is chaired by the Head of Risk and Committee and subsequently submitted to the Board Risk Regulation and includes the Chief Executive, Head of Committee for recommendation to the Board.
The principal Investment Management, the Head of Dealing, the Finance risks are formally approved by the Board twice a year.
Director and heads of key support functions.
Operational The Groups risk management policies and procedures are and regulatory risk issues are a standing agenda item for the set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Further Committee which acts as an escalation point for issues discussion of the Groups exposures to financial risks are arising from internal, external and regulatory audits.
The Risk included in note 26 to the financial statements.
Management Committee is supported by the Risk and Controls Committee which provides a forum for reviewing The Groups principal risks are categorised as strategic, operational risks and controls.
The current framework of the business, operational and financial.
It is recognised that Risk Committees is shown below: reputation risk is an important consequential impact and this has been identified as a business risk.
The Group has Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC deployed a range of preventative and detective controls and Brewin Dolphin Limited which together with risk transfer through insurance mitigate Boards its risks.
These are kept under regular review to ensure that the Group manages its risk profile within its appetite and capacity for risk.
A description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, Board Risk Committee Executive Committee together with the key mitigants and controls are set out in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Risk Management Committee Angela Knight Chairman of the Risk Committee 3 December 2013 Risk & Controls Committee Reporting line Additional reporting line Overview of the work undertaken by the Committee during the year The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on page 42 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board Risk Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the following work during the year: reviewing regular reports from the Group Head of Risk and Regulation and evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups Risk and Regulation department: receiving regular reports from the Groups Risk Management Committee: reviewing the high level risk register: considering emerging risks faced by the business: considering the output from the process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewing the Groups ICAAP, in conjunction with the Audit Committee: reviewing the risk committee framework and terms of reference of each committee: and considering and reviewing the Boards Risk Appetite.
