58 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Audit Committee Role of the Audit Committee A further significant risk control issue is to ensure that the investment The Audit Committees main functions are: portfolio accounted for in the financial statements reflects physical To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems ownership of the relevant securities.
The Company uses the services of on which the Company is reliant: an independent Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank to hold the assets To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have its own of the Company.
The investment portfolio is reconciled regularly by the internal audit function: Administrator to the Custodians records, and that reconciliation is also To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements reviewed by the Auditor.
of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager: Financial statements issued by the Company need to be fair, balanced To meet the independent Auditor of the Company to review their and understandable.
The Audit Committee reviews the Annual Report proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent Audit Report as a whole and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee and to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process and the levels of is aware that several sections of the Annual Accounts are not subject fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work: to formal statutory audit, including the Strategic Report and Investment To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, Managers review.
Financial information in these sections is reviewed by re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to negotiate their the Committee, and subject to a review by the Auditor.
remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work: To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, The Companys half-yearly report is approved by the Audit Committee objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
prior to publication, and is also reviewed by the Auditor.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the The Audit Committee assesses annually whether it is appropriate to whole Board.
It operates within defined terms of reference.
prepare the Group s financial statements on a going concern basis, and makes its recommendation to the Board.
The Boards conclusions are set Composition of Audit Committee out in the Report of the Directors.
The Audit Committee comprises the whole Board, all of whom are independent.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant Internal Controls financial experience and two are Chartered Accountants.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal controls systems to prevent and detect fraud and error are designed and Significant issues implemented by the third party service providers to the Company and In planning its own work, and reviewing the audit plan of the Auditor, is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of such controls.
The the Audit Committee takes account of the most significant issues and Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating risks, both operational and financial, likely to impact on the Companys and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in line with financial statements.
the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance to Directors the Turnbull guidance and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees The valuation of the investment portfolio is a significant risk factor.
This process has been in place for the year Of the portfolio 97% can be verified against daily market prices.
The under review and up to the date of approval of this report, and accords valuation of the remainder of the portfolio is verified by the Investment with the guidance.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process Manager on a regular basis and reviewed by the Audit Committee and for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company by the Auditor.
and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix which is regularly reviewed by the Board and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise the probability of such risks occurring.
59 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report 02 13 Investment Review 14 25 Governance 24 35 Financial Statements 36 71 The following are the key components which the Company has in place to Auditor assessment and independence provide effective internal control: The Companys external Auditor is Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specify has been the Companys auditor since 1993.
During 2013 the Audit levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on compliance with Committee conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor, these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board: and the related fees, and concluded that there was no need, at this stage, The Board has a procedure to ensure that the Company can continue to conduct a competitive tender.
However, the Committee is mindful of the to be approved as an investment Company by complying with sections latest Corporate Governance provisions relating to auditor tenure, and will 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010: keep this matter under consideration.
The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys The committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and activities and review its performance: procedures including quality assurance procedures.
It was considered that The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other those policies and procedures remained fit for purpose.
third party service providers, and adherence to them, are regularly reviewed: The fees for audit services were: 24,000 2012: 25,000.
The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews the Investment Managers operations.
The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board and needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only and independence.
All non-audit work to be carried out by the Auditor provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance.
non-audit services provided by the Auditor for the financial year ended 30 September 2013 was 29,000 2012: 23,000.
This comprised As neither the Company nor the Group has any employees, the Company 12,000 in relation to tax compliance: 6,000 in relation to the half-year does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The review: and 11,000 in relation to other services, including the checking Company delegates its main functions to third party providers, each of of the numbers in the Annual Report not subject to statutory audit.
These whom report on their policies and procedures to the Audit Committee.
non-audit services are assurance related, and the Committee believes Ernst & Young are best placed to provide them on a cost effective basis.
The Audit Committee believes that the Company does not require an The fees for non-audit services are considered not material in the context internal audit function principally because the Company delegates its of the accounts as a whole.
day-to-day operations to third parties, which are monitored by the Committee, and which provide control reports on their operations at The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst and Young remains least annually.
The Committee confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the Companys Auditor satisfies and does not External Audit process compromise the tests of the Auditors independence, objectivity, The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the Auditor.
The effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The cost of these services Auditor provides a planning report in advance of the annual audit, a report are considered by the Committee to be proportionate in relation to on the annual audit, and a report on their review of the half-year financial the fees for audit services.
The Committee has an opportunity to question and challenge the Auditor in respect of each of these reports.
AS Robson Audit Committee Chairman In addition, at least once a year, the Audit Committee has an opportunity to discuss any aspect of the Auditors work with the Auditor in the absence of the Investment Manager.
After each audit, the Audit Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness.
