38 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report Statement of compliance understanding of some of the companys significant investments The board recognises the importance of good corporate and to assess macroeconomic trends which may affect the governance and this report describes how the company has companys business and strategy.
complied with The UK Corporate Governance Code issued in Appointment, induction and training June 2010.
The company complies with the recommendation of The UK Shareholders registered on the companys New Zealand branch Corporate Governance Code that all directors of FTSE 350 register should note that the principles of good corporate companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
governance set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code may On appointment, new directors are offered induction and differ materially from the New Zealand Exchange Ltds corporate training considered appropriate by the board and subsequently governance rules and the principles of its Corporate Governance as necessary, and the annual performance evaluation of the Best Practice Code.
board encompasses the identification of any individual training A copy of The UK Corporate Governance Code is available on the needs of board members so that these can be reviewed with the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
The directors receive briefings at board meetings our-work publications corporate-governance the-uk-corporateon regulatory and other issues relevant to the company and its governance-code.
business sector and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their professional development.
The board Overall responsibility and operation Board composition The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success The biographies of the directors appear on pages 32 and 33. of the company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the The board currently comprises eleven directors.
Excluding the companys strategy, ensures that the necessary financial and Chairman, three of the directors are executive and seven are human resources are in place to enable the company to meet its non-executive.
The board considers all of the non-executive objectives and reviews management performance.
It also sets the directors to be independent, other than The Hon C W Cayzer, who companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations was an executive director until 3 December 2012.
In assessing to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
It aims Mr Goblet dAlviellas independence, the board took account of to provide leadership of the company within a framework of his position as Executive Chairman of Sofina S. A. whose prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebelco S. A. has a 5.1% shareholding and appropriately managed.
Mr Goblet dAlviellas position at Sofina has not To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of given rise to any conflicts of interest and his circumstances very Authorities which sets out those matters which it specifically much accord with the importance that Caledonia attaches to its reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated to own executives having board positions at, or close contact with, board committees and to executive management.
Mr Allen-Jones and Mr Thompson have both reserved for the boards own decision include the following: served as non-executive directors for more than nine years.
The board has specifically considered each of these non-executive the appointment and removal of directors of the company, directors independence in the context of The UK Corporate as prescribed by the companys articles of association, Governance Code and does not believe that their status is and of certain senior executive positions compromised simply by length of service.
Rather, the experience, the terms of reference of board committees and the character and conduct of each director are the boards membership thereof determinants of their independence.
Mr Thompson will in any event be retiring from the board at the annual general meeting the companys strategy on 24 July 2013. annual budgets Board committees the companys systems of risk management and The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the following standing committees: the Nomination internal control Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty and the Governance Committee.
exposure limits The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed policy on executive directors remuneration and terms of annually and are available on the companys website.
The current appointment of non-executive directors membership of these committees is noted on page 81.
The significant capital transactions membership of these committees has remained unchanged throughout the year, other than that Mr Bridges was appointed a charitable donations and political donations.
member of the Audit Committee on joining the board on 1 January 2013 and Mr Goblet dAlviella was appointed a member of the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
The Chairman Nomination Committee on 19 September 2012, at which time Mr Kent also ceased to be a member of the Governance Committee.
is primarily responsible for the leadership of the board and for Mr Gregson assumed the chairmanship of the Remuneration ensuring that it carries out its role effectively and the Chief Committee from Mr Davies on 21 November 2012, prior to the Executive for the implementation of the boards strategy and policies and the management of the companys activities, other latters retirement from the board on 31 December 2012. than those matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Nomination Committee Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Kent, is responsible for the regular review of the structure, size and composition All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have unlimited access to senior management should further of the board and for giving consideration to succession planning for directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior information be required.
Presentations by senior executives of executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search investee companies and external economic commentators may consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as also be arranged periodically to enable the board, and the non-executive directors in particular, to gain a closer and when they arise, for making recommendations to the board in Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 39 relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership Audit Committee needs of the company, both executive and non-executive.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Thompson, is responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the the company and any announcements relating to the companys non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal financial performance and for reviewing any significant financial letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the them in terms of time commitment, committee service and companys systems of internal control and risk management involvement outside board meetings.
procedures and considers annually whether an internal audit The Nomination Committee met five times during the year and function is required.
The Audit Committee believes that, in the the principal business undertaken included: context of the companys business as an investment trust company, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the the recommendation to the board that Mr Kent be appointed integrity of the application of the companys policy for the Chairman following the retirement of Mr Loudon valuation of its investments, particularly those which are consideration of, and a recommendation to the board unlisted, and the robustness of the companys risk management regarding, the independence of Mr Thompson in the context and internal controls.
of his having served more than nine years as a director The valuations of the companys unlisted investments are subject to formal six monthly reviews by the Valuation Committee.
a formal review of the size and composition of the board The Audit Committee then selects a number of valuations for following the 2012 annual board performance evaluation specific review.
Risks facing the company are analysed under consideration of the contributions of the non-executive four broad headings business risk, investment risk, financial directors seeking election or re-election at the 2012 annual risk and controls assurance.
Business risk is monitored through general meeting, prior to giving recommendations for their a risk dashboard which identifies key operational, market and elections or re-elections strategic risks, the controls and monitoring procedures in place to mitigate them and any outstanding actions required.
the conduct of a search for an additional independent nonMeasurement of investment risk focuses on volatility risk and executive director, concluding with the recommendation to concentration risk, including an assessment of value at risk of the the board that Mr Bridges be appointed investment portfolio and movements since the previous report.
recommendations to the board on changes to the chairmanship Financial risk is monitored through analysis of performance or membership of the Audit, Governance, Nomination and risk, currency risk, liquidity risk, investment gearing risk and Remuneration Committees, as detailed above.
A controls assurance programme, undertaken by the Risk Manager, provides a rolling audit of the companys The Nomination Committee engaged Odgers Berndtson to assist key operational systems and procedures.
Reports on risk in the search for an additional independent non-executive are presented to the Audit Committee and the board every director, which culminated in the appointment of Mr Bridges.
It is the Audit Committees current opinion that, in Odgers Berndtson has no other connection with the company.
view of these control processes, the size of the entities controlled Remuneration Committee by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward control The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Gregson, is considerations in relation to other investments, a separate responsible for the review of executive remuneration policy.
internal audit function is not necessary.
Within that policy, the Remuneration Committee determines the It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and remuneration packages of executive directors and reviews those monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditor of other senior executives and also determines the fee of the and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and Chairman.
It is also responsible for the design of, and grant of implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to awards under, the companys share incentive schemes and for supply non-audit services.
In this regard, the Audit Committee the determination of the policy for, and scope of, pension has approved a schedule of specific non-audit activities which arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and may not be undertaken by the external auditor, within the broad compensation commitments for executive directors and, if principles that the external auditor should not audit its own requested by the board, for other senior executives.
work, should not make management decisions on behalf of the The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
company, should not be put into the role of advocate for the The business undertaken by the Remuneration Committee company and that no mutuality of interest should be created included: between the company and the external auditor.
The Audit Committee believes that, by applying these principles, the the approval of bonus awards for the year ended 31 March objectivity and independence of the auditor is maintained, 2012 for executive directors and other senior executives notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
The the determination of the fee payable to Mr Kent on his Audit Committee considers the appointment, re-appointment or appointment as Chairman removal of the external auditor and makes recommendations to the board where necessary in relation to these matters.
The Audit the approval of the 2012 Directors remuneration report Committee is also responsible for the companys formal whistle the grant of awards under the 2011 performance share scheme blowing arrangements, whereby members of staff may raise any and 2011 deferred bonus plan issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business and whereby any such concerns are the approval of the terms of the termination of The Hon properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
C W Cayzers service agreement The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that at the determination of the fee of the Chairman and basic salaries least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent for the executive directors and review of salaries for other and relevant financial experience and the Financial Conduct senior executives for the year ending 31 March 2014.
Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules similarly Further information on the companys executive remuneration require that one member should have competence in accounting policy and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included and or auditing.
Mr Bridges is a chartered accountant and, as in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 43 to 50.
Chief Financial Officer of Hiscox and a member of the audit 40 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report continued committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England The Governance Committee met three times during the year, and Wales and of the Prudential Financial and Taxation and the principal matters it considered included: Committee of the Association of British Insurers, has, in the the review and approval of the Corporate governance report opinion of the Audit Committee, the relevant financial experience for the year ended 31 March 2012 and competence specified by The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
The Audit the review of potential conflict situations notified by directors Committee also considers that Mr Allen-Jones has met these in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the making of requirements given his extensive involvement in financial recommendations to the board in relation thereto transactions as a corporate lawyer and that he was previously a consideration of the influence of the Cayzer Concert Party on member of the Financial Reporting Council and the Financial Caledonias board and whether it was in the general interest Reporting Review Panel.
of the non-Cayzer Concert Party shareholders, with the The Audit Committee held three meetings during the year, each conclusion that it was of which included a discussion with the auditor without any of approval of the terms of the proposed sale of the Ocean Dial the executive directors present.
During the year, the business group to a joint venture comprising a majority third party undertaken by the Audit Committee included: investor and Ocean Dials management scrutiny of valuations of unlisted investments selected by approval of the terms of the proposed sale of certain artworks the Audit Committee following the half-year and full-year and memorabilia owned by Caledonia, the total value of which Valuation Committee meetings has been assessed by three external valuers at some 0.5m, consideration of the reports from the external auditor at fair market value, to the Cayzer Family Archive, a charitable concerning its audit of the 2012 annual financial statements foundation established to preserve an historical archive of the of the company and its review of the 2012 half-year report Cayzer family and its heritage in shipping.
consideration of the financial disclosures contained in the Attendance at board and board committee meetings 2012 annual and half-year reports to shareholders and The following table identifies the number of board and financial reporting issues for the 2012 annual report committee meetings held in the year to 31 March 2013 and the attendance record of individual directors.
a review of the companys policy for the allocation of expenses between revenue and capital Committees Board Nomination Remuneration AuditGovernance consideration of financial reporting issues relating to the 2013 1 Number of meetings 8 5 4 3 3 annual report and the scope of the 2013 annual audit, including agreement with the external auditor on the key areas of focus Attendance by 2 R D Kent 8 5 1 the review of six monthly reports from the companys Finance Director and Risk Manager on business risks and W P Wyatt 8 controls assurance S A King 8 consideration of financial reporting issues relating to the J M B Cayzer-Colvin 8 2013 annual report and the need or otherwise for an internal C M Allen-Jones 7 4 4 3 3 audit function 3 S J Bridges 2 a review of the independence and objectivity of the external Hon C W Cayzer 7 auditor, including a review of the audit and non-audit fees for 4 R Goblet dAlviella 8 1 3 services provided to the group C H Gregson 8 3 4 3 3 an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself D G F Thompson 8 4 4 3 3 including a review of its role and responsibilities R B Woods 8 3 4 assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements 5 J R H Loudon 3 2 for approval as an investment trust.
6 M E T Davies 6 5 3 2 Governance Committee The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps 1.
Mr Kent was only a member of the Governance Committee for one of its meetings under review corporate governance issues relating to the during the year.
company and is responsible for the monitoring and review of the 3.
Mr Bridges was appointed as a director on 1 January 2013 and attended all board meetings ability of each director to act in the interests of shareholders held after that date, although was unable to attend the one meeting of the Audit Committee held after his appointment.
as a whole and to exercise independence of judgement free from 4.
Mr Goblet dAlviella was appointed a member of the Nomination Committee on relationships or circumstances which are likely to, or could 19 September 2012 and attended all meetings of this committee held after that date.
appear to, affect his judgement.
Mr Loudon retired from the board on 25 July 2012 but attended all meetings of the board and the Nomination Committee held prior to that date.
also reviews conflict or potential conflict situations relating to 6.
Mr Davies retired from the board on 31 December 2012 but attended all meetings directors which may require the prior authorisation of the board of the board and the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees held under the Companies Act 2006 and makes recommendations prior to that date.
to the board as to whether such conflict or potential conflict situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions, Other committees such as duration or scope of the authority, should be attached.
Various other committees have been established with The Governance Committee reviews annually all authorisations responsibility for specific areas of the companys activities, other previously granted by the board to ensure that they remain than matters reserved to the board as a whole, as follows: appropriate.
If the Governance Committee believes that a director Administrative Committee may be subject to a conflict of interest which may prejudice his The Administrative Committee of the board has been established ability to exercise independence of judgement, it may make such to deal with administrative matters of a routine nature requiring recommendations to the board as it may think fit, including that board approval or matters which are reserved for the board, but the director abstains from participating in any decision of the for which full board approval has already been given in principle.
board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2013 41 The Administrative Committee meets when required and is The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its comprised of any two directors.
committees for the year ended 31 March 2013 were presented in a report to the board.
No material points of concern arose Executive Committee from the evaluation process, although it was considered that The Executive Committee meets when required and is greater visibility of investment opportunities in the pipeline and responsible for matters relating to the day to day management those which had been rejected after detailed appraisal would of the companys business, other than where delegated to other be informative for the non-executive directors.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by directors were also encouraged to attend occasionally the the Chairman, the executive directors, the heads of the pools of meetings of the Investment Management Committee and capital and the Company Secretary.
Investment Approvals Committee in order to see at first hand Investment Management Committee the dynamics of the companys investment processes.
The The Investment Management Committee meets weekly and Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and composition of the board in the light of the report to the board.
considers matters relating to the companys investment portfolio and monitors the companys cash requirements and its net asset Directors conflicts of interest value per share performance.
The Investment Management Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and is attended situation where he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest by the entire investment team, the Company Secretary and the which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the companys Deputy Company Secretary.
The Companies Act 2006 however allows directors of Investment Approvals Committee public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
approves new investments and proposed realisations.
This The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other committee meets when required, is chaired by the Chief Executive provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to and is attended by the Chairman, the executive directors, the avoid a breach of duty.
heads of the pools of capital and the Company Secretary.
There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when Compliance Committee the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential The Compliance Committee meets weekly to monitor the conflict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those companys on-going compliance with the requirements for who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to investment trust status and to approve all investment activity take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, from an investment trust compliance perspective.
It also the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good monitors the potential impact of legal and regulatory faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The Compliance Committee is chaired by the The directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when Company Secretary and attended by the Finance Director, the giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
group heads of tax, treasury and finance, the Group Financial The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements Controller Risk Manager and the Deputy Company Secretary.
of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts Valuation Committee of interest.
Each director is required to declare any potential The Valuation Committee formally reviews valuations of all of the conflict situation which may relate to him or his connected companys unquoted investments at each half-year and full-year.
If necessary, these are reviewed by the Governance It is chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by the Finance Committee with each member taking no part in the Director, the head of finance, the Chairman of the Audit consideration of his own declaration, if relevant, which then Committee and observed by representatives from KPMG Audit Plc.
puts forward recommendations to the board as to whether these situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions Board performance evaluation to such authority should be attached.
The board then considers The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its and, if appropriate, approves these recommendations, again with performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
each director taking no part in relation to his own potential For the year ended 31 March 2013, the evaluation of the board as conflict situations.
a whole and of its committees was led by the Chairman and was Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on conflicts conducted by inviting individual board members to complete questionnaires regarding the operation and effectiveness of of interest to ensure that directors disclose any new potential the board as a whole and of its committees, the responses from conflict situation.
These are then reviewed, if necessary also by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board which were collated by the Company Secretary and discussed.
A register of directors conflicts of interest is The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and involved maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually individual private discussions with all other members of the by the Governance Committee.
board on his performance, the results of which were then Internal control considered by the non-executive directors, without the Chairman The board has responsibility for risk management and internal present.
The performance of the non-executive directors was control, although the detailed review is delegated to the Audit reviewed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Committee.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, Independent Non-Executive Director, with the Senior assess and mitigate risk.
The board confirms that the system of Independent Non-Executive Director absent in respect of his internal control operated by the group accords with the Turnbull own performance appraisal.
The evaluation of the performance Guidance 2005, has been in place throughout the year and up to of the Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman and the the date of approval of these financial statements and has been non-executive directors.
The performance of the other executive reviewed by the board.
directors was reviewed by the Chairman, Chief Executive and non-executive directors and the performance of all of the The board monitors risk by reviewing and discussing a risk executive directors was also separately considered by the report, compiled by the Risk Manager after consultation with Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary the Investment Management Committee and approved by the review process.
This report is formally presented to the board every six months, with quarterly updates as required.
42 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Corporate governance report continued The report focuses on four distinct areas investment risk, Financial performance is measured and reported weekly.
financial risk, business risk and controls assurance.
Business risk Performance statistics are reported monthly to the board.
Income is reviewed in greater detail through the maintenance of a risk and expenses are monitored by the board against an approved dashboard.
This details the principal risks facing the group, annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations of after consultation with executives, and describes the impact, unlisted investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly review likelihood and mitigation procedures put in place.
Completed process undertaken by the Valuation Committee and selected actions are noted and updates clearly identified.
Each risk is valuations are then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
All given a target score and an actual risk factor assessed on its members of the board are provided with a copy of the valuations likelihood and impact in order to give an indication of the level and supporting materials for all of the unquoted investments.
of a particular risk on an on-going basis.
All new investment activity and proposed disposals are subject to formal approval by the Investment Approvals Committee.
Caledonias system of internal controls is typical of an investment company, with segregation of duties surrounding the processing Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual and approval of financial data and payments.
Internal reporting review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system is structured to provide management with the key information of internal control.
No material control failings or weaknesses for quick and effective decision making.
External reporting is were identified.
Committee review of Relations with shareholders investment activity ensures transactions are in accordance with The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order to strategy, meet internal guidelines and do not give rise to any achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
A controls assurance programme has been Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings with operational and has reviewed and reported on a number of institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and fund internal control procedures.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Subsidiaries and key investments, defined as those investments also available to attend some of these meetings.
Any views put in which Caledonia is the principal investor, maintain their own forward by shareholders are reported back to the board, which risk registers, which are reviewed by the relevant investment periodically also receives presentations from Caledonias brokers manager.
All these investments are within the Unquoted pool, on shareholder feedback and the general market perception which has recruited additional resource to increase supervision.
In addition, the annual general meeting provides a forum for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally All of the companys investments are reviewed at least annually and informally.
significant investments by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings by the Investment Management Committee.
These The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to reports include an update on the risks facing the investment and answer questions at the annual general meeting.
how these are being managed.
The Risk Manager produces reports for the Audit Committee on specific risk areas as and when requested.
New tax rules for investment trust companies were introduced for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012, which provide for continuing approval subject to satisfaction of on-going eligibility conditions.
The Compliance Committee monitors compliance with these rules and updates the board as appropriate.
