The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 21 Report of the Directors continued Since the year end, an external evaluation by Lintstock Limited Investment Managers auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to was completed.
The conclusion was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board, the embed the system of internal control and risk management into Chairman and individual Directors, including Richard Hextall the operation and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
who has served for over six years, was deemed fully g Accountability and relationship with the Investment satisfactory.
Areas of particular strength identified were in Manager relation to the Boards focus on risks and controls, The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the management of performance and strategy, succession Financial Statements is set out on page 25, the Independent planning and Board dynamics.
Some suggestions were made Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going in terms of improving the operation of the Board and an Concern on page 15. action plan has been developed to implement these.
The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, f Internal controls including the Investment Manager, the management of the The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company Company.
The process has been in place since 2000 and is secretarial and administration requirements and registration subject to regular review by the Board.
Up to the date of this services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and report the process accords with the Internal Control Guidance proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the for Directors on the Combined Code published in September services offered, including the control systems in operation in so 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system The Board receives and considers regular reports from the of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are However, such a system is designed to manage rather than supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute companies managed by the Investment Manager: these assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of Chairman reports on them to the Board.
internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2013.
During the The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager also identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant have been determined as significant.
management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting enabling full review of the Companys business risks and these have been the directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, in The Investment Manager has established an internal control the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of The directors have access to the advice and services of the its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each quarter from the procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act Board receives each year from the Investment Manager a report 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its on its internal controls which includes a report from the zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
