Close Brothers Group plc 33 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Strone Macpherson, Chairman businesses.
Within the Banking division there has been a review As chairman of Close Brothers, I view the of its operating model and of its IT infrastructure.
In relation to the governance and oversight of its distinctive and Securities division the focus has been on its core competencies.
In Asset Management the board has monitored its restructuring prudent business model and strategy as key programme which has been completed.
to the continuing creation and delivery of The board has also spent time monitoring a series of reviews, value to its stakeholders, particularly in an undertaken to test the resilience of the groups systems.
It has reviewed regulatory developments, arising from the creation of economic environment that remains both the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential uncertain and challenging.
Regulation Authority PRA, the successor bodies to the Financial Services Authority FSA, and the potential impact of proposals from the European Union.
To accomplish this the board has held nine regular meetings this year and prior to each board meeting receives reports, not only We are committed to the principles established in the UK on the results of each of the three divisions and key performance Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial indicators, but also detailed updates on the progress and Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 and this report will implementation of the agreed strategies for each division.
The explain and demonstrate how the group has complied with the board has the opportunity to discuss the reports and challenge Code.
each of the divisional chief executives, who attend all or part of the board meetings, directly on the progress and implementation of their divisional strategy.
In addition, in June 2013 the board attended two strategy days dedicated to discussing and Strone Macpherson reviewing the groups long-term strategy with executive Chairman management.
24 September 2013 The groups overarching strategy is set and so the boards focus this year has been on reviewing its implementation by the Close Brothers Group plc 34 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued Compliance It is the boards view that the Companys governance regime has The Code issued by the FRC in June 2010, has been applied by been fully compliant with the best practice set out in the Code for the Company throughout the financial year.
the FRC updated the Code, publishing a revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Revised Code.
The Revised Code is A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: not applicable to the Company in the year under review, but the www.
Company has begun the process of reviewing its procedures to enable the board to report, as required, under the Revised Code The Board for the financial year ending 31 July 2014.
Leadership of the board The boards primary role is to provide leadership, ensure that the The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of Company is appropriately managed and delivers long-term principles and provisions on how companies should be directed shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic objectives and and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The FCA provides direction for the group as a whole.
A number of key requires companies with a premium listing in the UK to disclose, decisions are reserved for and may only be made by the board, in relation to the Code, how they have applied its principles and which enables the board and executive management to operate whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the within a clear governance framework.
These specific responsibilities financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with, are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the board which is companies must provide an explanation for this.
published on the Companys website and are summarised opposite: Governance Framework Board governance structure The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Executive Committee Responsible for developing strategy, setting business objectives and assisting the chief executive with management of the group.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2012 2013 The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year.
This is not reflected in the table.
Nomination and Audit Remuneration Risk Governance 1 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended Executive director Preben Prebensen 11 11 Jonathan Howell 11 10 Stephen Hodges 11 11 2 Elizabeth Lee 10 10 Non-executive director Strone Macpherson 11 10 3 3 Douglas Paterson 11 8 5 5 5 5 4 4 3 3 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 11 10 5 5 5 5 4 4 3 3 Ray Greenshields 11 10 5 5 5 5 4 4 3 3 Geoffrey Howe 11 10 5 3 5 5 4 3 3 2 3 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 9 9 5 5 5 5 4 4 3 3 4 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 4 3 1 Of the 11 board meetings held during the year, two were ad hoc meetings, held to approve appointments to the board and its committees of which all directors were aware.
MessrsHowell, Macpherson, Paterson and Cayzer-Colvin were each unable to attend one of these ad hoc meetings.
2 Elizabeth Lee did not attend the ad hoc board meeting at which she was appointed a director.
3 Shonaid Jemmett-Page did not attend the ad hoc board meeting at which she was appointed a director, or that at which she was appointed to the boards committees.
4 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin attended the three regular meetings held prior to his resignation from the board.
Close Brothers Group plc 35 Annual Report 2013 Setting and monitoring strategy: Whether they have any interests which may give rise to an Oversight of regulatory compliance and internal control: actual or perceived conflict of interest: and Ensuring adequate financial resources: Whether they act in the best interests of the Company and of Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: all its shareholders at all times.
Approval of communications to shareholders: Board membership and other appointments: and The Company has therefore complied with the Code provision Corporate governance matters.
that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
Each nonThe board has delegated specific powers for some matters to its executive director is required to confirm at least annually, whether committees as set out in each committees terms of reference any circumstances exist which could impair their independence.
which are reviewed annually and can be found on our website at www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance Following the appointment of Elizabeth Lee and Shonaid board-committees.
The chairman of each committee reports Jemmett-Page to the board and the retirement of Jamie regularly to the board on matters discussed at committee meetings.
Cayzer-Colvin, the board comprises eight male and two female members.
The board is committed to ensuring a diverse pool of At each regular scheduled meeting the board receives reports candidates is considered for any vacancies that may arise and from the chief executive and finance director on the performance that they are filled by the most qualified candidates based on and results of the group.
In addition, the heads of the Banking, merit, having regard to the benefits of diversity.
Securities and Asset Management divisions update the board on performance, strategic developments and initiatives in their Meetings and attendance respective areas and the head of legal and regulatory affairs The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During the year there provides updates on legal matters.
In addition the board receives were nine scheduled board meetings and two ad-hoc board updates from the group operating functions on compliance, meetings called to deal with specific time critical matters.
No human resources and corporate development matters.
additional board meetings were convened to deal with operational issues.
Details of attendance at board meetings can There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure be found on page 34. that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each board Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by the consideration and debate of all matters.
chairman in consultation with the company secretary and the chief executive.
Each director may review the agenda and During the year, the board has, in particular, focused on: propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
Board appointments: Additional information is also circulated to directors between IT infrastructure: meetings including relevant updates on the business and Control function reviews: regulatory announcements.
The implications of the new regulatory regime: The Banking divisions operating model: and The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a substantial Corporate governance matters.
time in advance in order to ensure the availability of each of the directors.
In the event that directors are unable to attend All directors, other than Douglas Paterson, also attended a meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive papers in dedicated two day strategy session in June 2013 which focused the normal manner and have the opportunity to relay their on strategy development and execution.
comments in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
The same process applies in respect Board size, composition and independence of the various board committees.
During the majority of the financial year the board comprised 10 members: the chairman, four executive directors and, following Chairman and chief executive the resignation of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin on 22 November 2012, The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and five independent non-executive directors.
The structure of the there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles.
board continues to ensure that no individual or group of In accordance with the Code, there is a written statement of the individuals is able to dominate the decision making process and division of responsibilities which has been reviewed and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The chairman is Strone Macpherson.
His other significant commitments are set out in his biography on Details of the individual directors and their biographies are set out page 28.
The board is satisfied that his other commitments do on pages 28 and 29. not restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
The board has assessed the independence of each of the As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for current five non-executive directors and is of the opinion that leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and each acts in an independent and objective manner and therefore, contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities include under the Code, is independent and free from any relationship setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the directors that could affect their judgement.
The boards opinion was with information in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the determined by considering for each non-executive director: promotion of effective decision making.
The chairman is also Whether they are independent in character and judgement: charged with ensuring that the directors continually update their How they conduct themselves in board and committee skills and knowledge and that the performance of the board, its meetings: committees and the individual directors is evaluated on an annual basis.
Close Brothers Group plc 36 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is primarily Appointment of directors responsible for the day-to-day management of the groups The appointment of directors is governed by the Companys business.
His other responsibilities include proposing and articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other developing strategic objectives for the group, managing the applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected by groups risk exposures in line with board policies, implementing shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board of the decisions of the board and facilitating appropriate and directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of effective communication with shareholders and regulatory association.
The articles of association may be amended by bodies.
special resolution of the shareholders and were last amended in November 2009.
Senior independent director The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
In accordance with the Code all directors are subject to Inaddition to the existing channels for shareholder re-election at the AGM.
The board will only recommend to communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be concerns they may have with the senior independent director.
proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the performance of the individual directors.
Following the Powers of directors performance evaluations, the board will be recommending that The directors are responsible for the management of the all directors standing for re-election be re-elected by Company.
They may exercise all powers of the Company, subject shareholders and confirms that each director continues to be to any directions given by special resolution and the articles of effective and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Letters of appointment are available for inspection by Companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions passed at the shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at Companys 2012 AGM.
Board evaluation Induction and professional development In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the board On appointment all new directors receive a comprehensive and determined that the annual evaluation of the board, of its personalised induction programme to familiarise them with the committees and its individual directors should be undertaken Company and to meet their specific requirements.
The Company externally in 2013, being three years since the previous external also provides bespoke inductions for directors when they are evaluation.
Dr. Long of Boardroom Review, who conducted appointed as a committee chair.
Induction programmes are evaluations in 2009 and 2010, was again appointed to carry out tailored to a directors particular requirements but would typically the evaluation following a selection process.
Boardroom Review include site visits, one-to-one meetings with executive directors, provides no other services to the company.
the company secretary, senior management for the business areas and support functions and a confidential meeting with the The evaluation took the form of one-to-one meetings, external auditor.
Directors also receive guidance on directors observation of meetings of the board and of the Audit liabilities and responsibilities.
Committee, and the review of board and committee information.
Dr. Long presented an independent view of board strengths and There is a central training programme in place for the directors future challenges, which were considered by the chairman and which is reviewed and considered by the board.
In addition, the discussed by the board individually and collectively.
chairman discusses and agrees any specific requirements as part of each non-executive directors half year and year end The evaluation explored three key aspects of board and reviews.
During the year, training took the form of informal committee effectiveness: the board environment, the work of the meetings with senior management, in-depth business reviews, board and the use of time.
Overall, the conclusions from the attendance at external seminars and FCA forums and briefings evaluation were positive and identified a number of board from both internal and external advisers covering topics such as: strengths.
Future challenges for the board include: The roles and responsibilities of the Audit and Risk committees: Future board composition: Accounting and disclosure: and The balance of formal and informal time: The new regulatory structure.
Awareness of shareholder views: A changing competitive landscape: Training and development records are maintained by the An evolving audit and risk agenda: and company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman and Changing remuneration structures.
These initiatives will be developed during the course of this The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that the board financial year.
procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
All directors have direct access to the services and advice of the The evaluation confirmed the directors opinion that the board company secretary.
Directors are able to take independent and its committees continue to be highly effective.
external professional advice to assist with the performance of their duties at the Companys expense.
In addition to the board evaluation process, the senior independent director led a separate performance review in respect of the chairman which involved a review with the non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and separate consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on his appraisal.
Close Brothers Group plc 37 Annual Report 2013 Risk and Control Framework The risk management framework is based on the concept of The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system of three lines of defence.
Business management are responsible internal control that ensures an effective risk management for ensuring that all key risks have been identified, assessed and andoversight process operates across the group.
The risk evaluated and that, where necessary, appropriate controls have management framework and associated governance been put in place to manage and mitigate them within defined arrangements are designed to ensure that there is a clear risk appetites.
Risk functions provide oversight of this and group organisational structure with well defined, transparent and internal audit ensures that the first and second lines of defence consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes to are working effectively.
The risk management framework is identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the group illustrated in the table below.
is, or might become, exposed.
The key principles underlying risk management in the group are: Identification, measurement and management of risk are Business management own all the risks assumed throughout fundamental to the success of the group.
Over the past the group and are responsible for ensuring that these are 12months the group has continued to strengthen its risk managed on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return management framework and further develop the groups Risk are balanced: Committee, and its divisional risk committees, which continue The board and business management promote a culture in working efficiently and effectively.
which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, transparent and objective manner: A key priority of the risk and control framework is to allow The overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term business opportunities to be captured while maintaining an viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term revenue appropriate balance of risk and reward.
The groups risk streams: management framework is designed to ensure that the risks to Risk functions are independent of the businesses and provide which the group is or may become exposed are identified and oversight of and advice on the management of risk across the that those which the group chooses to take are managed, businesses: controlled and, where appropriate, mitigated so that the group is Risk management across the group is proportionate to the not subject to material unexpected loss.
scale and complexity of the groups individual businesses: Risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate with The group reviews and revises its risk appetite as part of the the degree of risk: and strategy setting process.
This aligns risk taking with the Risk management and control supports decision making.
Adherence to appetite is monitored by the groups risk committees.
Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Group Risk and Compliance Risk Committee Audit Committee Committee Reports to the board via the Risk Reports to the board.
Chief executive delegates to divisional and Risk Committee delegates to the chief Audit Committee mandates the head of operating business heads day-to-day risk officer day-to-day responsibility internal audit with day-to-day responsibility responsibility for risk management, for oversight and challenge on risk for independent assurance.
regulatory compliance and internal control related issues.
in running their divisions or businesses.
Business management has day-to-day Risk functions provide support and Group internal audit provides independent ownership, responsibility and independent challenge on: assurance on: accountability for risks: Risk framework: First and second lines of defence: Identifying and assessing risks: Risk assessment: Appropriateness effectiveness of Managing and controlling risks: Risk appetite and strategy: internal controls: and Mitigating risks: and Performance management: Effectiveness of policy implementation.
Risk reporting: Adequacy of mitigation plans: and Group risk profile.
Key features Key features Key features Promotes a strong risk culture and Overarching risk oversight unit takes Draws on in-depth knowledge of the focus on sustainable risk adjusted an integrated view of risk qualitative and group and its businesses: returns: quantitative : Independent assurance on the activities Implements the risk framework: Risk management separate from risk of the firm including the risk Promotes a culture of adhering to limits control but work together: management framework: and and managing risk exposures: and Supports through developing and Assesses the appropriateness and Ongoing monitoring of positions and advising on risk strategies: and effectiveness of internal controls.
Creates constructive tension through challenge, critical friend.
Close Brothers Group plc 38 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued In an increasingly challenging external environment, the overarching objective of the Committees work has been to maintain assurances that the group continues to operate within the boards approved strategy and risk appetite: and that the groups risk management framework is properly structured and effectively implemented.
Membership and meetings The Committee comprises me as chairman, Douglas Paterson and Bruce Carnegie-Brown who chair the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively, Geoffrey Howe and Shonaid Jemmett-Page who joined the Committee with effect from 1 August 2012.
Each of the Committee members is independent and attended all of the four meetings held during the year, other than Geoffrey Howe who was unable to attend one of them.
In addition to the members of the Committee, standing invitations are extended to the chairman, the executive directors, chief risk officer, head of compliance and the head of internal audit.
All of them attend meetings as a matter of practice and have supported and informed the Committees discussions.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external advisers may also be invited to attend the Committee to present and advise on reports commissioned.
I continue to meet regularly with the chief risk officer and have Ray Greenshields, Chairman of the Risk Committee regular formal and informal meetings with senior management across the group to discuss key risks and emerging issues.
Risk Committee Responsibilities Chairmans overview The role of the Committee in summary is to: This report explains the role and responsibilities of the Risk Oversee the maintenance and development of a supportive Committee which supports the board in its oversight of risk culture in relation to the management of risk: management across the group.
The following sections set out Review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the group the Committees membership, key responsibilities, and the key is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: areas upon which we have focused on during the year.
The Monitor risk profile against the prescribed appetite: identification, management and mitigation of risk are fundamental Review the effectiveness of the risk framework to ensure that to the success of the group.
The Committee plays an important key risks are identified and appropriately managed: and role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk Provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of management across the group.
remuneration with performance against risk appetite through the Remuneration Committee.
The year has seen some particular challenges for the Committee in its oversight of risk management.
Global economic conditions The Committees full terms of reference are available from the have continued to be difficult.
The regulatory environment has corporate governance section of the companys website.
also evolved with the move to twin peaks regulation, and our regulators continue to seek assurance as to the robustness of risk management and the financial viability of financial institutions in a stressed environment.
Close Brothers Group plc 39 Annual Report 2013 Activity in 2013 financial year We continue to oversee and review the change management The Committee has continued to focus on ensuring that, as the programmes across the group, focusing on the Banking and loan book grows, we maintain credit quality and stay within the Asset Management divisions.
Specifically we have reviewed the credit risk appetite.
As part of this we have overseen the further project management office in the Banking division.
In our regular development of the credit risk management framework including Committee meetings we review and challenge the progress of the further enhancement of governance and control including key projects.
We have also reviewed and challenged stress testing and risk analysis of key areas of the The Committee undertook regular reviews of the groups risk loan book and considered the associated operational risks to profile against the key performance indicators set out in the Risk ensure loan book growth is both scalable and sustainable.
Appetite Statement and considered the need for any adjustment to the risk appetite which has recently been refreshed.
The group has reviewed and enhanced conduct risk management framework throughout the organisation with Given the criticality of capital and liquidity, over the course of the measures including: year the Committee has maintained its focus on this area.
The Developing a Conduct Risk Appetite: Committee considers and discusses the groups capital and Embedding the product review and assessment process to liquidity position, regulatory environment and expectations at ensure that products are regularly reviewed and remain fit for each scheduled meeting.
This includes oversight of key purpose: regulatory submissions such as the Internal Capital Adequacy Developing Conduct Risk Management Information: and Assessment Process ICAAP : the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Embedding Conduct Risk into the organisations culture, values Assessment ILAA : and the Banks Recovery and Resolution and behaviours.
Specific reviews have been delivered to the Risk Committee that Remuneration have improved its ability to consider the major drivers of risk in We provided input to the Remuneration Committee, to ensure the group.
These include: that risk behaviours and incidents over the course of the financial Monitoring changes to the regulatory environment.
We devote year were appropriately reflected in the annual performance considerable time to current and emerging regulatory appraisal and compensation review process.
challenges to ensure the group is well placed to implement new regulation.
This included a deep dive on the Retail Looking ahead to 2013 2014 Distribution Review including preparation for implementation Key priorities for the coming year include: and the impact on the business model.
Continuing to ensure that an appropriate balance is struck Control processes over our relationships with third parties to between strategic forward looking oversight of the groups risks ensure outsourcing arrangements are appropriately controlled and more detailed review of management information and risk and the financial stability of third party is monitored.
management processes across all risk types: A review of the IT control environment.
In response to the high Continuing to keep abreast of the changing economic profile IT difficulties experienced elsewhere in the industry, the landscape and evolving regulatory environment: group commissioned an independent review of its control Macroeconomic factors and regulation which will continue to environment.
We continue to enhance the controls in place shape the Committees agenda: and over potential external threats to our IT environment e. g. cyber Continuing to monitor our risk profile and performance against threats.
risk appetite to ensure that this remains aligned to business strategy, with a particular focus on capital and liquidity.
As part of our assurance the Committee requested  LLP PwC as an independent Ray Greenshields organisation to review the groups Risk Management Framework Chairman of the Risk Committee during the year.
The review confirmed that we are well placed compared to best market practice.
24 September 2013 Close Brothers Group plc 40 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued The qualifications of the members of the committee are outlined in their biographies on pages 28 and 29.
Both I as chairman and Shonaid Jemmett-Page are deemed to have recent and relevant experience by the board.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page will take over as Audit Committee chair with effect from 21 November 2013 and has been involved in all meetings and correspondence during the year to ensure a smooth transition.
In addition to the members of the Committee, standing invitations are extended to the chairman and the executive directors, all of whom attend meetings as a matter of practice.
I meet with the group finance director, the heads of internal audit, risk and compliance and the group financial controller in advance of each of the scheduled meetings to agree the agenda and receive full briefing on relevant issues.
This group also attends the meetings by invitation together with other senior executives as required.
The external audit partner also attends all of the Committee meetings and meets in private with the Committee on each occasion.
In addition I have had regular contact with the lead audit partner throughout the year.
Activity in 2013 financial year The Committee has focused on the following key areas: Financial reporting Reviewed the groups annual and interim reports, with particular emphasis on the key accounting judgements made by management: Douglas Paterson, Chairman of the Audit Committee Reviewed the groups interim management statements and the interim and preliminary results announcements together with Audit Committee the associated results presentation to analysts: Chairmans overview Received written reports highlighting the key accounting issues The Audit Committee has continued to support the board in its faced by the group in advance of the half year and full year oversight of financial reporting and internal controls.
In particular we reviewed and agreed Committees key responsibilities are to: managements conclusions on credit provisioning, and the Monitor the integrity of the groups external financial reporting, classification of Mako as held for sale and subsequently as particularly the financial statements ensuring any significant an available for sale equity investment given the expectation financial judgements are appropriate: and actual loss of significant influence: and Review the adequacy of the groups internal controls: and Reviewed a preliminary assessment and impact analysis of the Monitor and review the activities and performance of both impairment changes within the proposed IFRS 9. internal and external audit.
Compliance and internal control In addition to these core responsibilities, the Committee has Reviewed and approved the annual compliance team plan allocated time to monitoring the numerous accounting, regulatory during the year.
Following the November 2012 Audit and corporate governance changes that the group is expected to Committee meeting it was agreed that the board Risk face in the near future.
To assist the Committee, a formal training Committee would oversee compliance activity from January 2013: session covering these changes was held during the year.
Reviewed the initial version of a group accounting manual setting out in detail the groups accounting approach and The Committees full terms of reference are available from the policies.
The Committee challenged management on how the corporate governance section of our website.
manual would be used in practice and complied with across the group: Membership and meetings Reviewed an annual update on the groups tax affairs and The Committee comprises me as chairman, Bruce Carnegieendorsed the groups tax policy: and Brown and Ray Greenshields who chair the Remuneration and Reviewed and agreed enhancements to the groups internal Risk committees respectively, Geoffrey Howe and Shonaid whistleblowing policy.
Jemmett-Page who joined the Committee with effect from 1August 2012.
Each of the Committee members is independent Internal and external audit oversight and attended all of the five meetings held during the year, other Reviewed and challenged the annual plans of both internal and than Geoffrey Howe who was unable to attend two of them.
The external audit: meetings held were scheduled to coincide with the financial Assessed the effectiveness and independence of the external reporting cycle of the group.
auditor: Reviewed each of the 19 internal audit reports issued in the year and received regular management information on the status of outstanding actions from previous reports: Close Brothers Group plc 41 Annual Report 2013 Reviewed recommendations and expectations published by During the year, non-audit fees amounted to 0.6 million, a similar the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the level to the prior year and were 35% of the overall audit fee 2012: Chartered Institute of Internal Auditing regarding internal audit: 32%.
Non-audit fees in the year were: Reviewed and challenged the effectiveness of the co-source internal auditor relationship: and million Reviewed, debated and approved an updated policy on Tax advice: non-audit fees.
Compliance 0.2 Consultancy 0.1 Internal audit Assurance work on securitisation funding 0.1 As well as reviewing the internal audit plan for the forthcoming year, the Committee receives a report from the head of internal Other assurance 0.2 audit at each meeting.
This report summarises the results of all the audits conducted as well as status reports on progress on 0.6 implementation of agreed actions arising from prior reports receiving full explanations for any overdue actions.
The head of At the beginning of the financial year, the Committee received an internal audit meets the Committee privately at each meeting as estimate of the expected non-audit fees for the year.
The well as meeting with me regularly throughout the year.
Committee concluded that all of those fees and those subsequently approved fell within its criteria for engaging Deloitte Since 2009, the group has operated a co-source internal audit LLP and does not believe they pose a threat to the auditors function to supplement our own internal resource with PwC to independence or objectivity.
ensure it has access to the full range of audit expertise across the groups activities.
The Committee continues to keep this Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firm has audited the group since arrangement under review ensuring the right balance of internal it was first listed in 1984, but has only acted as the groups sole and external resource is retained and that the internal audit auditor since 2008.
Although a full audit tender was not carried function is operating effectively.
During the year under review, a out, a detailed proposal was reviewed at that time prior to further investment in IT technology to support the internal audit Deloitte LLPs appointment as sole auditor to the group.
At the function was approved by the Committee.
conclusion of last years audit the lead audit partner stood down having completed five years in the role.
External audit The Committee reviews the independence and objectivity, The Committee has concluded that Deloitte LLP continues to be qualifications and effectiveness of the external audit on an annual independent and objective and that their audit is effective.
The Committee also considers whether to recommend the result we have concluded that no audit tender is necessary at reappointment of the auditor to the board.
We will continue to keep this under review and the current intention is that an audit tender will take place no later The Committees annual evaluation of the auditor focused on the than the completion of the new lead partners five year term in following areas: accordance with the FRCs published transitional arrangements The experience and expertise of the audit team: following the changes to the Revised Code published in The scope of the work planned and carried out and the quality September 2012. of written reports presented to the Committee: and The quality of dialogue between the auditor, the Committee Douglas Paterson and senior management.
Audit Committee chairman This process was supported by a presentation to the Committee 24 September 2013 based on a survey of management across the group.
We also reviewed and approved an updated policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The key provision of this policy is that permission to engage the external auditor will always be refused where a significant threat to independence and or objectivity is perceived.
However, the Committee continues to see benefit for the group in engaging with Deloitte LLP where: Work is closely related to the audit work: A detailed understanding of the group is required: and Use of Deloitte LLP provides higher quality and or better value service than elsewhere in the market.
The policy also requires that any non-audit fee of over 100,000 is pre authorised by the Committee and that I am consulted on any fees over 10,000.
Close Brothers Group plc 42 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate Governance continued Nomination and Governance Committee The Committee considered the benefits of diversity, including This report sets out the role and responsibilities of the board gender, during its deliberations on these positions, which were Nomination and Governance Committee.
filled by the most qualified candidates based on merit.
These appointments have widened further the range of insights and Membership and meetings perspectives brought to the boards deliberations.
The Committee comprises me as chairman, Bruce CarnegieBrown, Ray Greenshields and Douglas Paterson who chair the Strone Macpherson Remuneration, Risk and Audit committees respectively, Geoffrey Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Howe and Shonaid Jemmett-Page who joined the Committee with effect from 1 August 2012.
Each of the Committee members 24 September 2013 is independent and attended all of the three meetings held during the year, other than Geoffrey Howe who was unable to attend Remuneration Committee one of them.
All the members of the Committee are independent Details of the role and work of the Committee are set out in the non-executive directors.
In addition, the chief executive and, Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 47 where appropriate, the group head of human resources, attend to60.
Conflicts of Interest The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The articles of association include provisions giving the directors authority to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of Responsibilities interest as permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
The Committees primary responsibilities are: Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: before A procedure has been established whereby actual and potential an appointment is made, the skills, knowledge and experience conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and appropriate required for a particular appointment are evaluated and authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new external advisers may be used to facilitate the search for director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a suitable candidates: conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted directors Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way board: they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Considering the leadership needs of the group and considering success of the Company.
The board believes this procedure succession planning for directors and other senior executives: operated effectively throughout the year.
and Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
Investor Relations The group has a comprehensive investor relations IR Work in 2013 programme to ensure that current and potential shareholders, as During the year the Committee focused on: well as financial analysts, are kept well informed of the groups Executive management and succession planning: performance and have appropriate access to management to Reviewing the boards succession plans to ensure that an understand the companys business and strategy.
appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained: The nomination of new directors: and The board believes it is important to maintain open and constructive Board evaluation.
The IR team, reporting to the finance director, are responsible for managing a structured On 1 August 2012, the Committee recommended the programme of meetings, calls and presentations around the appointment of Elizabeth Lee, who at the time was general financial reporting calendar as well as throughout the year.
The counsel and company secretary, to the board as an executive chief executive and finance director meet with the groups major director in the new position of group head of legal and regulatory institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
As a financial services organisation, the continued chairman and senior independent director are also available to increase in the significance of legal and regulatory affairs was meet with major shareholders and discuss any concerns, such that the Committee believed it appropriate to have this particularly in relation to corporate governance and remuneration.
The Committee also determined that, from a governance perspective, it was desirable that the roles of Furthermore, all shareholders have the opportunity to raise executive director and company secretary should not be vested questions with the board at the AGM, either in person or by in the same person.
Accordingly it recommended to the board submitting written questions in advance.
The chairman of each of that Elizabeth Lee give up her dual role which occurred in the board committees attends the AGM and all other directors January 2013 with the appointment of a new company secretary.
are expected to attend the meeting.
The Committee also recommended the appointment of Shonaid The board is regularly updated on the IR programme.
An IR Jemmett-Page to the board as an independent non-executive report, summarising share price performance, share register director, having determined from its search of candidates with an composition, analyst research and feedback from investor audit and financial background that she had the right technical meetings, is produced for each board meeting.
and commercial skills, breadth of experience including with FSA regulated entities, and capacity to take on the role given other All results announcements, annual reports, regulatory news commitments and recent experience outside core audit.
An announcements, presentations, webcasts and other relevant external search consultancy, Russell Reynolds, was used but documents are available on the IR section of the group website advertising was not required in this instance.
The groups investor has no other connection with the Company.
briefcase app for iPads and iPhones also offers analysts and investors access to financial reports, presentations and news releases.
Close Brothers Group plc 43 Annual Report 2013 Substantial Shareholdings In preparing the parent company financial statements, the The Company has been notified to 13 September 2013 under the directors are required to: provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them following significant interests in the voting rights of the Company.
consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Ordinary Voting reasonable and prudent: shares rights State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been millions % followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Lloyds Banking Group 11.6 7.87 explained in the financial statements: and Prudential 10.0 6.81 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Standard Life Investments 8.9 6.02 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Caledonia Investments 7.3 4.96 Schroders 6.4 4.33 In preparing the group financial statements, IAS 1 requires that Artemis Investment Management 5.9 4.01 directors: Norges Bank 4.5 3.09 Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and those of other shareholders.
understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Going Concern specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to to understand the impact of particular transactions, other affect its future development and performance and its events and conditions on the entitys financial position and summarised financial position are set out in the Chairmans and financial performance: and Chief Executives Statement and Business Review on pages 4 to Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a 7 and 12 to 23 respectively.
The principal risks and uncertainties going concern.
the group currently faces, along with the ways the group seeks to manage those risks, are described on pages 24 to 27 of the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Business Review.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The group has a strong, proven and conservative business the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure model and a diversified range of financial services businesses that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act and has traded profitably during the year.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of each of its core businesses, well capitalised, soundly funded and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the has adequate access to liquidity.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of expectation that the Company and the group have adequate the corporate and financial information included on the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may basis in preparing the annual report.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the and regulations.
relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Company and the undertakings included in the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors consolidation taken as a whole: and are required to prepare the group financial statements in The management report, which is incorporated into the Report accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the Directors, includes a fair review of the development and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the performance of the business and the position of the Company International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS and have and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in whole, together with a description of the principal risks and accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted uncertainties that they face.
Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not By order of the board approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Nicholas Jennings profit or loss of the Company for that period.
