Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 1 Robert Bailhache 2 Jamie Brown 4 Sara Gomez Director of Communications Managing Director of International Group Human Resources Director Bringing a single, clear and consistent voice Targeting the delivery of core corporate Ensuring that we have capable and engaged to what we say to all audiences, saving time growth and profit as well as aiming to deliver people to deliver the business strategy, both and aiming to prove the shared interests of our a sustained increase in shareholder value now and in the future customers, our people and our shareholders Appointment Appointment Appointment Jamie joined the Group in 1997.
Sara joined the Group in March 2007 and Rob joined as Director of Communications became Group Human Resources Director Experience and qualifications in February 2012. in May 2013.
Jamie joined as part of the Motor team, Experience and qualifications initially setting up Direct Line Rescue.
In 1999, Experience and qualifications Rob has 20 years experience in international he was responsible for the acquisition and Previously, Sara worked in a number of capital markets as a communications specialist integration of Green Flag.
In 2001, he moved different industries from retail, to travel to and financial journalist.
Rob was previously to Italy to lead the development of the Direct financial services, including M&S, TUI a Managing Director and Head of Group Line business in that market, and in 2007 and RBS Direct Line Group.
The early part Press Office at HSBC Holdings.
Prior to this took broader responsibility across the Groups of her career was in commercial and sales he was Managing Director, Financial Services other European businesses.
Previously Jamie management, giving a broad general and a Partner of Financial Dynamics, followed a career both inside and outside management and leadership background.
a subsidiary of FTI Consulting Inc.
Rob the insurance industry in the UK and overseas.
She worked in management development began his career in business media where He is a Chartered Accountant and has spent culminating in a role as Head of Learning he held senior journalist roles in the UK and six years in the accountancy profession, for First Choice Holidays.
Rob is a graduate of the University of 24 years in the insurance industry with AIG, into generalist HR and her route to her current Nottingham where he gained a Bachelor of Churchill and Direct Line and six years in role has been through HR Business Partnering Arts Honours in Politics and the University other industries.
in a wide range of functions within of London where he gained a Master of Arts Direct Line Group.
He holds a Certificate 3 Darrell Evans in Investor Relations awarded by The Investor 5 Jonathan Greenwood Chief Customer Officer Relations Society.
Aiming to improve our customer experience Managing Director of Commercial across all our channels, by making it easy Focusing on the micro and SME sector, where for our customers to do business with us we have a long history, allows us to leverage Group assets such as geospatial risk mapping Appointment and the claims systems and processes Darrell joined the Group in October 2009.
Appointment Experience and qualifications Jonathan joined the Group in 2001.
Before his current role, Darrell was Managing Director, Sales, Services and Partnerships.
Experience and qualifications Prior to this, he was Director of Products at Previously, Jonathan held various senior Group RBS Group before assuming responsibility positions in Personal Lines and Partnership for mortgage brands and the retail telephony divisions including Managing Director Home centres at the retail bank at RBS Group.
Darrell and Product and Pricing Director Partnerships.
began his career with RBS Group when he Immediately prior to joining the Group, joined NatWest in 1986 where he undertook Jonathan was Vice President of Insurance a variety of strategy, finance, marketing and for MBNA Europe and prior to that General product management roles.
Darrell holds an Manager for a joint venture between MBA from Aston Business School.
Commercial Union and BNP Paribas.
Jonathan started his career at Halifax Building Society, later HBOS, where he held a variety of senior product and operational roles in the general insurance division.
54 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 6 7 8 9 10 6 Steve Maddock 8 Humphrey Tomlinson 10 Thomas Woolgrove Managing Director of Claims and General Counsel and Managing Director of Personal Lines Continuing to drive improved value from our Business Services Company Secretary UK personal lines franchise, meeting the needs Aiming to achieve upper quartile claims cost Providing governance, company secretarial, of, and deepening relationships with, performance and maximise value for our legal risk management and other legal advice our customers shareholders, while providing exceptional and services to the Board, the Executive and service to our customers the Group Appointment Tom joined as Managing Director, Appointment Appointment Personal Lines in April 2010.
Steve joined as Managing Director of Claims Humphrey joined the Group in in February 2010.
Experience and qualifications Tom previously held various Managing Experience and qualifications Experience and qualifications Director roles with HBOS and Lloyds Banking Previously, Steve held the position of Director Humphrey is a solicitor with over 20 years Group, including UK Private Banking, General of Strategic and Technical Claims at RSA, a experience including advising on corporate Insurance and Motor Finance.
Before that, role he assumed in 2004.
He has over 20 and commercial matters, a wide range he was a strategy consultant with Gemini years insurance industry experience, including of corporate transactions in the UK and Consulting, part of the Capgemini Group, roles as Director of Claims and Customer internationally, legal risk management and and a graduate engineer with Rolls-Royce Service at Capita and Director of Operations corporate governance issues, with RSA, where Aerospace.
He was elected President of the at AMP.
Steve holds an MBA from the he was Group Legal Director, and City law Chartered Insurance Institute in July 2013 University of Reading and is a Non-Executive firm Ashurst Morris Crisp.
He is a graduate and is a member of the ABI General Insurance Director of the Motor Insurers Bureau and the of the University of Oxford.
Tom holds a Masters Degree Insurance Fraud Bureau.
in Engineering and Management from the 9 Jos Vazquez University of Oxford, and an MBA from the 7 Angela Morrison Chief Risk Officer University of Chicago, Booth School of Chief Information Officer Continuing to provide risk management Business, where he was a Fulbright Scholar.
Providing a value driven, easy and reliable leadership to support strong commercial experience for our customers and employees, performance and good customer outcomes which meets their ever increasing digital needs Appointment within a clear regulatory framework Jos joined as Chief Risk Officer in Appointment March 2012.
Angela became Chief Information Officer Experience and qualifications CIO in 2010.
Jos was previously Global Chief Risk Officer Experience and qualifications at HSBC Insurance, where he had Prior to her current role, Angela was CIO at responsibility for the Group Chief Actuary, and J Sainsburys and a member of their Operating was a Board member of its captive insurance Board.
She previously worked for ASDA company.
Prior to joining HSBC, Jos held Wal-Mart where she held a number of roles various roles over 10 years at Zurich Insurance, including European Strategy Director, CIO initially in London Market Operations, then as through the ASDA Wal-Mart integration Chief Actuary International Business Division and e-Commerce Director which included and finally as Chief Actuary of the UK.
Jos establishing ASDAs home grocery business.
started his career as a consulting actuary, Angela started her career as a consultant and including six years as a consultant with KPMG holds a degree in Electrical and Electronic in London where he worked on a wide range Engineering from the University of Bristol.
of domestic and European engagements.
Jos is a Maths graduate from Brunel University and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55
