Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 N and R Key strengths and contribution 1 Michael N Biggs 3 John Reizenstein Glyn has undertaken a number of senior Chairman of the Board Chief Financial Officer roles within the financial services industry.
Appointment Appointment He brings knowledge of insurance from Mike joined the Board and became Chairman John joined as Chief Financial Officer in his time as Chairman of Aspen.
As a of the Group in April 2012 and is Chair of December 2010. former Chief Executive Officer in the asset the Nomination Committee.
Experience and qualifications management industry he also understands Experience and qualifications John was previously an Executive Director the City and shareholders well.
Mike has over 40 years experience of the at the Co-operative Insurance Society, CIS UK and international financial services sector.
General Insurance and The Co-operative 5 Mark Catton He was Chief Executive Officer and Group Bank.
He was Chief Financial Officer of Finance Director of Resolution plc, the FTSE these businesses between 2003 and 2007, Non-Executive Director 100 UK life assurance business, and latterly and subsequently Managing Director, Appointment the Chairman of Resolution Limited until May Corporate and Markets.
Prior to that, John Mark rejoined the Board in October 2013, 2013 when he stepped down following the spent more than 20 years in investment having previously served as a Non-Executive combination of the boards of Resolution banking with UBS and Goldman Sachs.
Director of the Company from September Limited and Friends Life Group.
He was John is an Economics graduate of the 2012 to April 2013. previously Group Finance Director of Aviva University of Cambridge.
He has a Masters degree in History from External appointments Mark rejoined the RBS Group in August 2007 the University of Oxford and is an Associate as a Managing Director in corporate banking, None of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of having previously worked for NatWest.
Prior Key strengths and contribution England and Wales.
Mike is 61. to joining the RBS Group, Mark was a Senior John is an experienced Chief Financial Officer External appointments Executive at Barclays from 2001 to 2007, and former banker with extensive City and None responsible for a number of its clients and financial services experience.
He is product businesses, and in the latter period Key strengths and contribution accordingly well placed to provide strong as Managing Director in European investment Mike is a respected figure in the insurance support to Paul Geddes in leading the Group.
banking and debt capital markets at Barclays.
industry and is well regarded by City Mark is an Associate of the Chartered Institute investors.
He brings the Group extensive A, I, N and 4 Glyn Jones of Bankers and Association of Corporate insurance industry experience and a successful Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Treasurers.
Mark is 47. track record of flotations in this sector.
Appointment External appointments Glyn joined the Board in September 2012 Mark sits on the RBS Group management C 2 Paul Geddes and is Chair of the Investment Committee.
committee and is Chief Executive Officer of Chief Executive Officer Experience and qualifications UK Corporate and Institutional Banking at RBS, Appointment Glyn was Chairman of Towry Holdings Limited a position he has held since 2008.
Paul was appointed as Chief Executive Officer between 2006 and 2011.
He also served Key strengths and contribution in August 2009. as Chairman of Hermes Fund Managers from Mark is a Non-Executive Director nominated 2008 to 2011 and was Chairman of its sister Experience and qualifications by RBS Group.
He has over 20 years company, BT Pension Scheme Management, Paul was the Chief Executive Officer of RBS experience in corporate banking and financial for a part of this period.
Glyn was Chief Groups mainland UK retail banking business, markets to add to the perspectives around the Executive Officer of the independent having joined in 2004 as Managing Director boardroom table.
investment group, Thames River Capital, with responsibility for products and marketing.
From 2000, he served Before joining RBS Group, Paul held a number as Chief Executive Officer of Gartmore of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in Investment Management in the UK for four businesses that were then parts of the GUS years.
Before this, Glyn was Chief Executive and Kingfisher groups.
Paul started his career Officer of Coutts NatWest Group and Coutts in marketing, with UK and European roles at Group, having joined in 1997.
Paul read Philosophy, Standard Chartered in Hong Kong in 1990 Politics and Economics at the University of where he became the General Manager of Oxford.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Global Private Banking.
He was a consulting Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
Paul is 44. partner with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte External appointments Haskins & Sells Management Consultants Paul is a member of the ABI Board, a member from 1981 to 1990.
He is a graduate of the of the FOSs insurance industry steering group, University of Cambridge and a Fellow of the and a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Key strengths and contribution and Wales.
Pauls experience in leading one of the External appointments UKs largest retail banking businesses during Glyn is Chairman of Aspen Insurance Holding a challenging period for the industry and Limited, a New York listed specialty lines improving its customer and financial insurer, and also Chairman of Aspen Insurance performance against peers singled him out UK Limited, a principal operating subsidiary of in 2009 as the Chief Executive able to lead the Aspen Group.
the turnaround of Direct Line Group and its divestment from RBS Group.
52 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 6 7 8 9 A, B, C, I and B, R and of Needlework, a Trustee and Treasurer 6 Jane Hanson 9 Priscilla Vacassin of Cancer Research UK, a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director of Royal London Mutual Insurance Appointment Appointment Society Limited and a member of the Financial Priscilla joined the Board in September 2012 Jane joined the Board in December 2011 Reporting Review Panel of the Financial and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
and is Chair of the Board Risk and Corporate Reporting Council FRC.
Experience and qualifications Key strengths and contribution Priscilla was most recently Group Human Experience and qualifications Andrew has undertaken a number of Resources Director at Prudential plc and Jane spent 12 years with KPMG, where senior roles within the financial services and a Non-Executive Director and member of she worked in the financial sector, becoming insurance industries.
In addition, he has insight the Audit Committee at the Ministry of Director responsible for delivery of corporate into corporate governance developments and Defence.
Priscilla has previously held senior governance, internal audit and risk best practice in financial reporting through his human resources positions across a number of management services in the North of England.
membership of the Financial Reporting Review financial services and customer facing industries, Jane has also held executive roles including Panel of the FRC.
Accordingly, he is able including roles at Abbey National plc, where Director of Audit, and Risk and Governance to advise the Group on its governance she was Executive Director: Human Resources: Director at Avivas UK Life business.
Jane is a framework and financial reporting policies BAA plc, where she was Group Human graduate of the University of York with a and can draw on his experience in the Resources Director: and Kingfisher plc.
She degree in music and is a Fellow of the Institute insurance sector.
graduated in Law with Honours from the of Chartered Accountants in England and University of North East London.
A, B, C, I, R and 8 Clare Thompson External appointments External appointments Non-Executive Director Priscilla has her own search and Jane is Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Appointment consultancy business.
and Non-Executive Director at Reclaim Fund Clare joined the Board in September 2012.
Ltd and Chair of the Board Risk Committee Key strengths and contribution and Non-Executive Director of Old Mutual Experience and qualifications Priscilla has great knowledge and experience Wealth Management Limited.
She is an Clare was a partner at  of developing organisational values, and Independent Member of the Fairness Committee PwC from 1988 to 2011.
During her 23 creating the leadership, succession, at ReAssure Ltd. Jane has her own financial years as a partner of PwC, she held several development and remuneration structures sector consulting business, delivering audit, senior and high profile roles, particularly required to support corporate strategy.
enterprise risk management and corporate within the insurance sector.
She is a graduate She has worked both as a practitioner governance advisory and consulting services of the University of York with a degree in and as an adviser and therefore understands to the financial sector.
Mathematics and is a Fellow of the Institute of the complexity around remuneration in both Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Key strengths and contribution Clare is 59.
Jane has undertaken a number of senior roles in financial services, including in the External appointments UK life insurance sector, and has extensive Clare is currently a Non-Executive member experience of risk management, corporate of the Partnership Board of Miller Insurance governance and internal control.
She also Services LLP and is Treasurer of the Disasters has extensive experience of developing Emergency Committee.
Key strengths and contribution This experience led to Janes appointment Clare brings with her extensive experience as Chair of the Board Risk and Corporate and knowledge gained from roles across Social Responsibility Committees.
She also the professional services industry including as provides a customer focus on the Board.
Lead Audit Partner at PwC where she guided companies through change and acted as an A, B, I, N, R and 7 Andrew Palmer adviser to insurance companies.
She gained significant experience of both general and Non-Executive Director life insurance in the latter role.
Appointment Andrew joined the Board in March 2011 and is Chair of the Audit Committee.
Experience and qualifications Andrew retired from Legal & General Group plc, where he was the Group Finance Director, Key: in 2009.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of A Audit Committee Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
B Board Risk Committee External appointments C Corporate Social Andrew resigned from his position as Senior Responsibility Committee Independent Director of Segro plc, the British I Investment Committee and European Industrial Real Estate Investment N Nomination Committee Trust Company in April 2013.
Andrew continues to hold a number of external R Remuneration Committee positions.
He is a Trustee of the Royal School Independent Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53
