Corporate governance report The UK Corporate Governance Code Division of responsibilities The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the The following report details how the Board has applied Chief Executive Officer are clearly differentiated.
The division the principles and provisions in the FRCs UK Corporate of responsibilities at the top of a company is required by the Governance Code 2012 the Code as required by the Code to ensure that no one person may exert absolute control.
See also the statement on page 100 of the The role statements of both the Chairman and the Chief Directors report.
Executive Officer were approved by the Board on Throughout the year, Direct Line Insurance Group plc 21 September 2012. the Company has complied with the principles and The Chairmans responsibility is to provide leadership of the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available Board and ensure its effectiveness, whilst the Chief Executive from www.
Officer develops and delivers the Groups strategy within the Leadership policies and values established by the Board.
The role of the Board The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge The role of the Board is to organise and direct the affairs and help to develop proposals on strategy.
of the Group in a manner that is most likely to promote its long-term success for the benefit of its shareholders as a In addition, the Senior Independent Directors role is to whole.
It has oversight of the Groups operations, ensuring provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve it is effectively managed and that there are appropriate as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
controls in place to assess and manage the Groups risks.
His responsibilities include the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and he is also available as an additional The Board has set the Groups strategy of continuing on the point of contact for shareholders.
transformation path required to bring us closer to our ambition to be Britains best retail general insurer.
Set out on page 58 The Board of Directors are the Boards objectives for 2013, the actions the Board has The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who was undertaken during the year and our objectives for 2014. independent on his appointment to the Board, two Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executive Directors and one The specific duties of the Board are clearly set out in the non-independent Non-Executive Director, Mark Catton.
Mark Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board the Schedule Catton is not an independent Non-Executive Director under within the Boards terms of reference.
The Schedule lists those the Code by virtue of being nominated by The Royal Bank items that are specifically reserved for consideration and of Scotland Group plc.
However, he demonstrates a level decision by the Board.
These include: of independent challenge at Board meetings, which has led the establishment of the Groups strategy and oversight the Nomination Committee to determine that he is independent of the business and affairs of the Group: in character and judgement.
the raising and allocation of capital: The names of the Directors who served as at the end of the year, together with their biographical details and other setting the Groups risk appetite: information, are shown on pages 52 to 53. ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: There were no new appointments during the year: however, approval and oversight over execution and delivery of major Mark Catton resigned from the Board in April 2013 and capital projects, contracts which are material strategically re-joined the Board in October 2013 when Bruce Van Saun and major investments: resigned.
The respective dates are shown in the notes to the table opposite.
communication and meetings with shareholders: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board and Board Committees, following recommendations from the Nomination Committee: determining the remuneration policy for Directors and Senior Executives and the introduction of new share incentive plans or major changes to existing plans: delegation of authority: corporate governance matters: and approval of formal Group policies.
The Board is the main decision-making forum for the Group.
56 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Meetings of the Board The Board met regularly during 2013: no further ad hoc meetings were required in addition to the 11 scheduled meetings.
The Directors received Board papers and had the opportunity to comment on them in advance.
Details of attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings by Directors during the year are set out below and on pages 65 to 74.
Scheduled 1 meetings Chairman Mike Biggs 11 of 11 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Glyn Jones 10 of 11 Non-Executive Directors 2 Mark Catton 8 of 8 4 Jane Hanson 10 of 11 Andrew Palmer 11 of 11 Clare Thompson 11 of 11 Priscilla Vacassin 11 of 11 3,4 Bruce Van Saun 7 of 8 Executive Directors Paul Geddes 11 of 11 John Reizenstein 11 of 11 Notes: 1.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings possible or applicable for the Director to attend.
Mark Catton resigned as a Director of the Board on 26 April 2013 and rejoined the Board on 1 October 2013.
Bruce Van Saun resigned as a Director of the Board on 1 October 2013.
Glyn Jones, Jane Hanson and Bruce Van Saun were each unable to attend a scheduled Board meeting during 2013 due to other commitments.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57 Corporate governance report continued The Board programme for 2013, achievements and objectives for 2014 What did the Board say it What has the Board overseen, would do?
What will the Board focus on?
Our objectives for 2013 Highlights of 2013 Our objectives for 2014 Support the vision of becoming Continued oversight of the development of Continue to pursue improvements in Britains best retail general insurer claims capability, including the roll-out of our claims and pricing capabilities initiatives to Home and approved the Consider the strategic development establishment of DLG Legal Services of Commercial and International in Approved the Groups commercial strategy and the context of the Groups RoTE target received regular progress reports from each of Oversee the substantial migration of the principal businesses Direct Line Groups IT infrastructure Considered capital management policy away from RBS Group Approved capital allocation to the Groups Monitor change from regulatory, legal investment strategy and market pressures facing the industry and mitigate against potential Considered the technology environment in risk of adverse reserve development which the Group operates Monitor implementation of the Considered the impact of emerging global Groups transformation plan economic conditions, regulatory developments and the outlook for the industry Review the appropriateness of the Groups capital basis in the context Considered and approved the sale of the of the current environment Life business Oversee the Groups progress in Oversaw the 100 million cost transformation Oversee the Groups pursuit of its pursuit of its targets, including plan delivered by management strategic objectives those relating to COR and RoTE 1 Supported decisions enabling COR and RoTE Oversee the Groups total cost base targets to be met reduction to approximately 1,000 million in 2014 Set the tone and culture of the Reviewed the results of an Employee Opinion Oversee programmes to invest in the Group, focusing on behaviours Survey and challenged management on the Groups people and culture to help achieve the strategic actions to be taken objectives Considered the means by which cultural Review the Boards policy on indicators can be measured and improved gender diversity to consider how Board at 33% women more women can be promoted to senior and executive management roles Give our customers fair outcomes Oversaw new customer propositions, including Promote a focus on better customer the launch of telematics products in June experience Approved the next phase of the Groups Introduce new customer metrics transformation plan, in particular, focusing on customer facing systems Considered metrics to show performance for customers Supported the ABIs negotiations with Government to create a not-for-profit fund to insure the highest flood risk properties in the UK Review the main elements of Reviewed and sharpened the Groups Embedding the corporate governance governance architecture to corporate governance arrangements arrangements of the Group ensure that they are fit for Reviewed the Groups risk appetite statements purpose for the newly listed entity Conduct a full Board evaluation, Undertook a performance evaluation of the since the Board will have been in Board and its Committees and reviews of the place for sufficient time to make Matters Reserved to the Board and such a review appropriate Committees terms of reference Note: 1.
See note 2 on page 2 58 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Board Committees Authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer The Board has established its Committees to assist it in meeting Although the Board is ultimately responsible for the success its responsibilities.
Each Committee plays a vital role in ensuring of the Company, Paul Geddes, the Chief Executive Officer, that the Board operates efficiently and gives appropriate has received delegated authority from the Board to manage consideration to matters.
The governance structure illustrating the Groups day-to-day operations.
the relationship between the Board and its Committees is set In turn, the senior executives who report to him take out below.
The composition, attendance, role and focus of responsibility for managing the businesses and functions within each Committee are set out on pages 65 to 74. the Group, and each member of the Executive Committee has The Board and Committee governance structure the financial and other authorities needed to manage their respective areas.
Paul Geddes and these senior executives are supported by Board of Directors the functional departments of the Group.
Mike Biggs, Chairman Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the principal management committee Audit that assists the Chief Executive Officer in the day-to-day Board Risk Committee management of the Group as a whole.
It supports him in setting Committee Andrew Palmer, Chair performance targets and in implementing the Groups strategy Jane Hanson, Chair and direction as determined by the Board.
The Committee assists him to monitor key objectives and commercial plans to meet the Groups targets.
It also helps him to evaluate Corporate Social Investment new business initiatives and opportunities, and receives and Responsibility Committee considers reports on operational matters, where these are Committee Glyn Jones, Chair material to the Group or have cross-company implications.
Jane Hanson, Chair The diagram Direct Line Groups Executive Committee below illustrates the management governance framework.
Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Priscilla Vacassin, Mike Biggs, Chair Chair Direct Line Groups Executive Committee Paul Geddes Chief Executive Officer Insurance categories Operational areas Central functions Chief MD Commercial Chief Customer Chief Financial Chief Risk MD International Information Jonathan Officer Officer Officer Jamie Brown Officer Greenwood Darrell Evans John Reizenstein Jos Vazquez Angela Morrison MD Claims and General Counsel MD Personal Director of Business & Company HR Director Lines Communications Services Secretary Sara Gomez Tom Woolgrove Rob Bailhache Steve Maddock Humphrey Tomlinson Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 59 Corporate governance report continued Governance review The overall objective of the project was to clarify and simplify the Groups governance framework in order to During 2013, the Board oversaw a review of the governance help and improve its day-to-day operation whilst maintaining framework within which the Group operates, taking into appropriate controls.
account that the Company had listed on the London Stock Exchange and the shareholdings in the Company by RBS The review resulted in a significant revision to the High Level Group had decreased significantly.
Controls and System of Governance Document, the creation of an Enterprise-wide Risk Management framework and an Whilst this review confirmed that the Groups governance Executive Governance framework.
In addition Policies and framework dealt with such areas as would be expected and Minimum Standards were revised and clarified and various necessary, nonetheless the opportunity was taken to improve business and project approval processes and procedures the control environment whilst making its administration and were also reviewed in conjunction with the Delegated operation more transparent and cost effective.
The review covered the entire Group and was primarily The diagram below summarises the split of responsibilities led by the Company Secretariat, Legal and Risk functions.
for the different aspects of the governance framework.
Direct Line Group overall governance and policy framework Board Board and High Level Control and System 1 High Level Governance Committee ToRs of Governance framework document framework, risk appetite and Group policies are set Board Risk appetite by the Board, following approves review by the Board Risk Committee, for implementation Group policies by the Executive.
Board Risk Committee Enterprise-wide risk management framework Board Risk approved by the Board Risk Committee ERM strategy and framework Committee, following review approves by the Risk Management Committee.
Policies are drafted by Executive policy owners.
Risk Management Committee Developed by Executives with the framework approved by the Board.
Minimum standards are Executives drafted by the Groups minimum Executive governance framework Group minimum standards approve standard owners.
Review by the policy and minimum standard owners review forum.
Approved by Executives via the Risk Management Committee.
Business unit and operational area implementation Note: 1.
Terms of reference 60 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Board effectiveness Balance of Board members Structure of the Board As part of the process of helping to ensure a Code-compliant Chairman 1 Board, the Company focused on obtaining the elements l Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 considered necessary to maximise the Boards effectiveness.
Executive Directors 2 Consequently, the Board and its Committees have been Non-Executive Directors 1 constructed with a view to ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the sector and diversity exists to enable the Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
In assessing the independence of each Director, we considered whether each was independent in character and judgement and particularly whether there were relationships or Appointment of Directors circumstances which were likely to affect his or her judgement.
The Company did not appoint any new members to the Board in 2013 as all Non-Executive Directors were appointed very The individuals attributes were established as part of the recently.
Mark Catton, who had been a Non-Executive Director selection procedure.
Please see the section Appointment of until April, re-joined the Board as the nominated Director of RBS Directors for the desired attributes of our Directors and a Group upon the resignation of RBS Groups nominated Director description of the selection process.
The Groups key competencies for Board In addition, the Company employs a process of reviewing members are as follows: independence from management and invites the declaration Experience of any conflict of interest that could interfere with each Directors Significant Board experience in major listed businesses ability to act in the best interests of the Group.
UK company perceived as advantageous law allows the Board to authorise a situation in which there is, or may be, a conflict between the interests of the Group Extensive knowledge and operational experience in insurance and the direct or indirect interests of a Director or between at a senior level perceived as advantageous the Directors duties to the Group and to another person.
Experience and appreciation of businesses with customer The Board has adopted procedures for ensuring that its service at their core perceived as advantageous powers to authorise conflicts operate effectively.
For this Likely to have had executive experience purpose a register of conflicts, and of any authorisation of a conflict granted by the Board, is maintained by the General Attributes Counsel and Company Secretary and regularly reviewed by Widely recognised as an individual of high repute and the Board.
Mark Catton is a non-independent Non-Executive integrity who can rapidly gain Executive and Non-Executive Director by virtue of being nominated for appointment to the colleagues respect and trust Board by RBS Group, the Companys largest shareholder.
RBS Group has committed to the European Commission to An independent thinker who is able to engage constructively sell Direct Line Group as a condition of its receipt of state aid and add real value to Board discussions in 2009.
To comply with this requirement, RBS Group has Well organised and committed, an individual who takes reduced its shareholding in the Group to 28.5% and must his or her Non-Executive role seriously divest its entire interest by the end of 2014.
Robust, straight talking, open and approachable with Gender diversity of Board members a non-emotional and calm demeanour Supportive of the executive team while being able to Male 66.7% 6 challenge constructively Female 33.3% 3 A team player and a good listener with the style and ability to be a highly constructive member of the Board A sound understanding of the requirements of good public reporting and the ability to identify whether what is being presented in meetings stands up against reporting standards Strong communication and presentation skills, with the ability to get under the skin of the business and a strong desire to gain a deep understanding of what is going on in and around the Group Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 61 Corporate governance report continued The selection procedure included a number of interviews Our Directors have had a considerable workload during 2013 and meetings with existing Board members.
The Company and showed great commitment to meeting the requirements of also obtained a range of references for each candidate.
the business in a year of transformation.
In all, 11 Board meetings were held during the year, all of which were The Nomination Committee will adopt an approach modelled scheduled meetings.
on this selection procedure for future appointments.
Board induction Duration of appointment On appointment, each Director takes part in a tailored The Directors may appoint additional members to the Board induction programme, which is designed to give him or her during the year.
Subsequently, in accordance with a provision an understanding of the Companys business, governance and of the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders.
Mark Catton resigned as Non-Executive Director the Group submits Directors for re-election on an annual in April 2013 and was subsequently re-appointed in October basis, subject to the Groups independence criteria where 2013.
As there was only a short time between his resignation appropriate, ongoing commitment to Group activities and and re-appointment, it was not considered necessary for Mark satisfactory performance.
Catton to undergo an additional induction programme on his re-appointment.
In line with these arrangements, all Directors will be subject to re-election by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting Resources and training provided to the Board AGM on 15 May 2014.
The Chairman, with the aid of the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board is kept abreast of any changes in Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve two the legal and regulatory environment in which the business fixed terms of three years, but may be invited to serve a third operates.
The Company believes it is crucial to provide term of three years.
Directors with adequate resources and training, and devoted considerable time during the year to ensure that all Directors Commitment from Board members received training and education to help them understand their All our Directors, including the Chairman, have indicated duties, responsibilities and develop knowledge of the business that they are able to allocate sufficient time to the work of the as quickly as possible.
These sessions were developed Group to enable them to discharge their respective duties and to supplement the comprehensive technical acclimatisation responsibilities effectively.
Directors appointment letters contain programme conducted in 2012 and specifically to meet the a provision to this effect.
needs of the Directors, with individual Directors provided with bespoke training, as indicated in the following diagram.
Our 2013 training and education programme included Internal sessions focusing on Site visits External training sessions the following topics Bristol customer relations, Accounting and corporate Strategy and change telephony trading operations, governance developments Risk appetite, compliance risk business support, commercial and capital management Home and motor insurance Bromley the impact markets overview including Capital modelling, ICAS and of digital technology regulatory reforms Solvency II Glasgow fraud, home claims, Pricing conduct field force technology Engagement and culture within Italy and Germany International the workforce market overview, international Periodic payment orders operations, international strategy, international risk, legal and Telematics compliance Leeds customer relations, complaint management, claims and call centre handling During the year in excess of 30 training sessions, including site visits and Internal sessions on the Groups divisions and functions, were held.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors had a number 30 of meetings with members of the Executive committee throughout the year.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance Board effectiveness review Direct Line Groups approach to diversity The Board carefully considered the diversity of its members Review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees from a variety of perspectives and sought to ensure that We conducted our first Board effectiveness review in 2013 Directors had the relevant range of knowledge, skills, experience to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board, its six committees and, where necessary, independence to help the Group deliver and individual Directors.
The evaluation process was initiated its strategy.
by the Chairman and facilitated by Edis-Bates Associates Limited, an independent corporate governance consultancy, As the composition of the Board shows, with three of its with no other connection with the Company.
nine members being women, the Company is committed to the merits of diversity.
However, whilst the Board will take Each of the Companys Executive and Non-Executive Directors, care to consider gender diversity of its members when selecting together with the General Counsel and Company Secretary, new members, it is committed to appointing the most participated in the effectiveness review process, which appropriate candidate and therefore no targets have been involved questionnaires, one-to-one interviews and a review set against which to report.
To improve the governance of our gender-diversity programme, The process took place between September and December the Company has included an appropriate remit in the terms 2013.
The review of the Board included: of reference of the Nomination Committee.
In this, diversity, the role of the Board including Directors input into group including gender diversity, features as one of the criteria for strategy and risk management : the selection of Directors to the Board.
Further information regarding this diversity policy may be found in the Nomination information provided to Directors including induction, Committee report on page 72. continuing professional development and familiarity with group businesses : Also, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee people issues including Directors skills, Board and considers the issue in the context of ensuring the diversity of the committee composition, diversity, succession planning Group talent pipeline for future requirements, with mentoring and time commitment : and schemes for high-potential candidates and associated training and development programmes.
Numerical data relating to the Board environment and processes including working gender diversity of the Board, senior managers and the relationships, Board papers and Board support.
employees may be found on page 47.
Similar themes were raised in relation to the Boards committees, as well as committee-specific questions.
Following the conclusion of the evaluation process, the responses and comments were analysed and summarised in a report.
The report was discussed initially with the Chairman and then circulated to the full Board.
The report concluded that the Board is operating effectively.
The Chairman held one-to-one meetings with each of the other Directors, providing them with feedback on their performance and contributions.
Feedback on his own performance and contribution was provided by the Senior Independent Director, who had previously held discussions with the remaining Non-Executive Directors.
Based on the Board effectiveness review report, the Directors are satisfied that the Board has operated effectively during 2013.
The Board considered the review in the December Board meeting and matters arising from the report will be further considered and where appropriate actions will be implemented in 2014.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 63 Corporate governance report continued Accountability Internal systems of control The Board has put in place a management structure Financial and business reporting with defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of The Board is responsible for providing shareholders with a fair, authority.
This control framework cascades down through the balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys divisions and central functions, showing clear responsibilities position and prospects.
for ensuring that appropriate controls are in place at an An explanation from the Directors of their responsibility for operational level, including those that relate to the financial preparing the financial statements is set out in the statement reporting process.
of Directors responsibilities on page 103.
The statement by The Group Audit function supports the Board by providing our auditors explaining their responsibilities is on page 107. an independent and objective assurance of the adequacy We meet specific responsibilities placed on the Board under and effectiveness of the Groups operations.
It brings a the provisions of the Code as follows: systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of its risk management, control an explanation of how the Company generates value over and governance frameworks and processes.
the long term is included within the business model on page 6 and the strategy for delivering Company objectives on The Directors are aware that any system of internal control page 18: is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide how the Board has concluded that the business remains reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material a going concern is discussed on page 102: misstatement or financial loss.
the arrangements established by the Board for the application of risk management and internal control The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, regularly principles are detailed below: and reviews the effectiveness of the Group internal control systems.
Its monitoring covers all material controls, based principally on the Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight reviewing reports from management, the Group Audit function of the management of the relationship with the Companys and external auditors, so that it may consider how to manage auditors.
The Audit Committee report on page 65 provides or mitigate risk in line with the Groups risk strategy.
The details of its role, activities and relationship with the internal Committee did not identify or report any serious failings and external auditors.
or weaknesses to the Board in 2013.
Risk management and internal control system Remuneration The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration for the Groups risk management and internal control system, Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Executive and has complied with the Code by establishing a continuous Directors and senior executives of the Group.
Please refer to process for identifying, evaluating and managing the the Directors remuneration report on page 76. significant risks the Group faces.
This process includes risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Groups risk assessment process includes output from a system for reporting on all the significant risks that stand in the way of achieving Group objectives.
The system also reports on the nature and effectiveness of the controls and other management processes that manage these risks.
The system also sets risk appetites for key categories of quantifiable risk.
It additionally encompasses self-assessment of controls by risk owners throughout the Group, whose assertions are independently challenged by the 2nd line of defence and 3rd line of defence.
The Board Risk Committee regularly reviews significant risks, their potential impact on the Groups financial position, variations from agreed risk appetites and the actions taken to manage those risks.
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013
