Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Chairmans Introduction to the Nomination Committee Report I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2013.
This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the activities carried out during the year.
This year the Committee was principally involved in the selection process for a new Non-Executive Director and the subsequent recommendation that Helena Andreas be appointed to the Board.
In addition, in my absence, the Committee conducted a review of my performance leading to a recommendation that I be re-appointed for a further three year term.
On behalf of the Board Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22 May 2013 Role of the Committee The Committee has defined Terms of Reference which were reviewed in May 2011 and can be found in the Investor Relations legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and the membership of Board committees to ensure that they have the necessary range of competencies, knowledge and experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Richard Rose, the Chairman, and also comprises lord Bilimoria and Andrew Cripps, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Rose does not chair the Committee when it is dealing with his re-appointment or the evaluation of his performance.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 10 and 11.
Their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson Chief Executive, Karen Jones Non-Executive Director and the Human Resources director were invited to attend meetings.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Nomination Committee met twice during the year ended 29 March 2013 to: Recommend to the Board that Helena Andreas be appointed as a Non-Executive Director: Review the size, structure and composition of the Board: and Recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Richard Rose as Chairman for a further three year term to expire in May 2016.
Following a rigorous review, the Committee concluded that notwithstanding Richard Roses length of service 6 years as NonExecutive Chairman of the Company, preceded by a period of 9 months as Executive Chairman of Blueheath Holdings plc, the AIM listed company the Company reversed into in June 2007, Richard Rose was still independent in character and judgement.
Members attendance record was as follows: Attendance Committee member Number of meetings attended Percentage attendance Richard Rose Chairman 2 100% lord Bilimoria 2 100% Andrew Cripps 2 100% 21 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Board Composition Succession The Board plans for its own succession, with the support of the Committee.
The Committee remains focused, on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As part of this planning, the Board has made valuable additions in terms of strength, skills and experience of the Board, and has continued its programme to progressively refresh the Board.
By way of example, since June 2009, 4 Directors have joined the Board and 2 Directors have left the Board.
The Committee aims to ensure that: the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: processes are in place to identify potential successors and manage succession activity: there is a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: and processes are in place to identify at risk posts.
Diversity The Group operates within a traditionally male dominated industry.
The current proportion of men to women within the Group excluding Makro is 73% men and 27% women.
Following the appointment of Helena Andreas, the Board consists of nine men and two women.
The Board does not consider it appropriate to set targets for the number of women on the Board.
The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit and overall suitability for the role against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity including skills, experience and gender.
Appointment of Helena Andreas After considering a number of candidates, and following an interview process led by the Chairman of the Board, Helena Andreas was proposed by the Committee as a prospective candidate to the Board, the Committee having considered that her experience as a cross channel retail general manager with international experience was valuable to the Company.
Helena Andreas was invited to meet board members individually prior to her appointment.
No external search consultancy was used in her recruitment.
Board Composition As in previous years, as part of the Companys annual evaluation of Board performance, all Directors were consulted on the composition of the Board, and were of the view that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of skills and experience, but it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board contains a balance of executive and non-executive directors such that no individual, or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Board additionally undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2013.
Richard Rose Chairman of the Nomination Committee 22
