Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended 29 March 2013 and to the date of this document, the Company complied with the provisions and applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code, except in relation to provision B.
1.2 in respect of the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, where the Company was only compliant from 14 November 2012.
This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and the Remuneration Report describes how the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Role of the Board and its committees The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors the Board chaired by Richard Rose.
The Board currently consists of five Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors as determined by the Board.
The Nomination Committee has been searching for a complimentary Non Executive Director and the Board appointed Helena Andreas as a Non-Executive Director on 14 November 2012, since which date the Company has been fully compliant with the Code.
The Board is content that the independent judgement of the Non-Executive Directors has not been adversely impacted during the period of non-compliance.
The independence of Non-Executive Directors is considered at least annually and is based on the criteria suggested in the Code.
Richard Rose was an Executive Director and Chairman of Blueheath immediately prior to the reverse acquisition of Blueheath by the Booker Group in 2007 and became Non-Executive Chairman of the Company upon completion of the merger.
The Groups combined business is significantly different to and larger than Blueheath and there is a division of responsibilities between Richard and the Executive Directors and, in particular, Charles Wilson as Chief Executive, such that his current and former roles can be considered incomparable.
Having regard to all the circumstances, including the independence Richard has demonstrated as Chairman, the Board is satisfied and has determined that Richard is independent.
Consequently, all the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement in accordance with the Code.
The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
The Board believes that it is appropriate to have a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and lord Bilimoria fulfils this role.
He is available to shareholders where concerns have not been resolved through the normal channels and for when such contact would be inappropriate.
The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of skills and experience, but it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board contains a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual, or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 10 and 11.
12 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 The Board meets regularly on at least twelve scheduled occasions during each year and more frequently if necessary.
There were fourteen Board meetings, five Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings held in the year under review and the attendance by Directors was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive a b c Charles Wilson 14 14 2 5 3 5 1 2 a Jonathan Prentis 14 14 5 5 Mark Aylwin 14 14 Guy Farrant 14 14 d Bryn Satherley 13 14 Non-Executive a b e Richard Rose 14 14 1 5 1 5 2 2 e lord Bilimoria 14 14 5 5 5 5 2 2 e Andrew Cripps 14 14 5 5 5 5 2 2 e f Stewart Gilliland 14 14 4 5 c e Karen Jones 14 14 1 5 5 5 1 2 e g Helena Andreas 5 5 a Not a member of the Audit Committee but attended by invitation b Not a member of the Remuneration Committee but attended by invitation c Not a member of the Nomination Committee but attended by invitation d Bryn Satherley was unable to attend the July 2012 Board meeting due to a prior personal commitment e Independent Non-Executive Director f Stewart Gilliland was unable to attend the October 2012 Audit Committee meeting due to a prior personal commitment g Helena Andreas was appointed to the Board on 14 November 2012 The Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and that it achieves its objectives.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and regulatory issues.
At its meetings, the Board reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, sets and monitors strategy, examines investment and acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and its committees under its schedule of matters and the committees terms of reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated to members of the Executive Committee.
It is the Companys policy that the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly divided and set out in writing.
The Chairmans main responsibility is the leadership and management of the Board and its governance.
The Chairmans commitment to the Company is usually two days per month.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 10.
The Board considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the Company effectively.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and day-to-day management of the Group.
This includes formulating and recommending the Groups strategy for Board approval in addition to executing the approved strategy.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination Committee.
The Committee follows Board approved procedures available on our website which provide a framework for the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee may be expected to make recommendations.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity including skills, experience and gender.
Non-Executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
Information and professional development Directors are continually updated on the Groups business, the markets in which it operates and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
Board visits to Group business locations enable the Directors to meet with local management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to visit Group operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure to the business.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The provision of information to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Directors in the week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
In addition, Board committees are provided with sufficient resources and the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
13 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE continued Information and professional development continued All Directors are entitled to receive independent professional advice at the Companys expense and have access to the services of a professionally qualified and experienced Company Secretary, who is responsible for information flows to the Board and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
This ensures compliance with Board procedures and applicable laws and regulation.
The Board has responsibility for the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
On appointment, individual Directors undergo an induction programme covering, amongst other matters: the business of the Group: their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the Company: briefings and presentations from Executive Directors and senior executives: and opportunities to visit business operations.
Performance evaluation The Board undertook an externally facilitated evaluation in 2013.
This evaluation was led by the Chairman and was externally facilitated by the Institute of Directors IoD.
The IoD had no other connection with the Company and was not subject to any conflict of interest.
The methodology of the evaluation was via a detailed questionnaire.
The review covered the following main areas, which were determined by the Chairman and the IoD to be of most importance or value to the Board: key board issues: strategy and corporate principles: internal controls and risk management: performance management: shareholders and stakeholders: and performance in the boardroom.
Feedback was provided by a comprehensive written report to the Chairman and a report to the Board meeting in May 2013.
At that meeting the Board discussed the evaluation process and the findings.
Good progress was noted across all the areas of review.
The evaluation process gave assurance that each Director continued to contribute effectively and demonstrated commitment to the role.
Whilst there were no specific training needs identified for Directors, it was felt that in a changing regulatory environment it would be helpful to establish a programme of continuing development tailored to Directors needs and requirements.
No other actions or changes to Board or Committee practice were considered necessary in the immediate term following the evaluation.
During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met in the absence of the Executive Directors.
There was also one meeting of the Non-Executive Directors chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at which the Chairman was not present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee to oversee and debate issues of policy outside main Board meetings.
Throughout the year, the Chairman of each committee provided the Board with a summary of key issues considered at the committee meetings.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Re-election of Directors All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
In accordance with the Code all directors will, however, stand for re-election annually.
14 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Relations with shareholders In fulfilling their responsibilities, the Directors believe that they govern the Group in the best interests of shareholders, whilst having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders in the Group including customers, employees and suppliers.
The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular and ongoing communication with major shareholders throughout the year, by participating in investor roadshows and presentations to shareholders.
Feedback from these visits is reported to the Board.
The Executive Directors also have regular contact with analysts and brokers.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and other NonExecutive Directors receive reports on matters raised at the meetings with shareholders and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
As a result of these procedures, the Non-Executive Directors believe that they are aware of shareholders views.
In addition, lord Bilimoria, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is available to meet with major shareholders.
No shareholders asked to meet with him during the year.
Arrangements can also be made through the Company Secretary for major shareholders to meet with newly appointed Directors.
The Group maintains a website at www.
com which is regularly updated and contains information about the Group.
The Code encourages boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
In compliance with the Code, the Board welcomes as many shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss any interest or concern, including performance, governance or strategy, with the Directors.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer shareholder questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities and activities of their Committees.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to meet with the Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In compliance with the Code, at the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged on each resolution the balance for and against and abstentions after it has been dealt with on a show of hands and such details will be placed on the Groups website following the meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue.
Directors conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of potential and actual conflicts of interest have been approved by the Board.
These procedures, which enable the Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation, ensure that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered can authorise conflicts, and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
These procedures have operated effectively throughout the year ended 29 March 2013.
Internal controls and risk management The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and receives regular reports on such matters.
The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee detailed responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.
In addition to formal reviews of risk management by the Executive Committee, members are expected to report to the Executive Committee as necessary the occurrence of any material control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been identified.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting and or Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
The Group also has in place systems and procedures for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts which are monitored by the Audit Committee on the Boards behalf and reviewed annually by the Board.
These include: the formulation and deployment of Group accounting policies and procedures: Group policies governing the maintenance of accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial control procedures: monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control monitoring: and ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
15 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE continued Internal controls and risk management continued The Board formally reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls on an annual basis.
The latest review covered the financial year to 29 March 2013.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review.
The Board has a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
This process is continual and has been in place for the year under review up to the date of this report, and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with relevant guidance.
There is an established framework of internal controls, which is set out in procedures approved by the Board and which include financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
These procedures are readily accessible to staff, who follow their guidance.
The more important elements of this framework are as follows: Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Company and the Executive Committee has responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Board and each of its committees operate under a schedule of matters or terms of reference and the Board determines how the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee may operate within a framework of delegated authorities and reserved powers which seek to ensure that certain transactions which are significant in terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after Board review.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Charles Wilson Chief Executive and comprises Jonathan Prentis Group Finance Director, Mark Aylwin Managing Director - Booker Direct, Guy Farrant Managing Director UK Cash and Carry, Bryn Satherley Operations Director, Mark Chilton Company Secretary and General Counsel and other senior executives representing the operational functions within the Group.
It meets twice a month to discuss operational matters, compliance, health and safety and trading performance.
Corporate accounting and procedures Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate communication procedure.
Accounting, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures, together with the general ethos of the Group are included in these communications, and standardised accounting policies are in place reflecting this policy.
These procedures are subject to review to ensure that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
Quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through senior members of staff.
Budgetary process Each year the Board approves the annual budget, which includes an assessment of key risk areas.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year by regular reporting to the Board of updated forecasts together with information on key risk areas.
Risk management The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group aided by detailed reviews of internal controls and risk management procedures.
The Groups risk register is reviewed by the Board as part of annual strategic planning and budgetary cycles.
Investment appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by the use of authorisation levels.
For all expenditure beyond specified levels, Board approval is required.
Internal audit The Groups internal audit function, which reports to the Group Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, monitors the effectiveness of key internal controls and the adequacy of these controls to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources, in accordance with a work plan approved and monitored by the Audit Committee.
Its conclusions are communicated to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee.
16 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2013 Risks and Uncertainties The list below sets out the most significant risks to the achievement of the Groups business goals.
The list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Economic environment The economy is expected to remain difficult in the year ahead with the public reducing their levels of discretionary spend.
Customers will seek to obtain best value from products and the Group aims to provide a wide range of products that meet this requirement.
Competition The industry is extremely competitive with the market being served by numerous competitors, ranging from national multiple retailers to regional independent wholesalers.
The Group competes by closely monitoring the activities of competitors and ensuring it continues to improve the choice, price and service to its customers.
Regulation The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders and the operation of an open and competitive market.
These regulations include food hygiene, health and safety, data protection, the rules of the london Stock Exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that any breach of regulation could cause reputational and financial damage to the Group.
Product quality and safety The quality and safety of our products is of critical importance and any failure in this regard would affect the confidence of our customers in us.
We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products supplied.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout the Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures and by external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
We are aware that if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to deliver to our customers satisfaction the expected standards of quality and safety in our products their loyalty to us may be potentially impacted.
This in turn could adversely impact on our market share and our financial results.
Employee engagement and retention The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the investment in the training and development of our employees.
The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages are designed to be competitive, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
The Group continually engages with employees across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Supplier credit Availability of supplier credit is essential for the Groups financial performance.
Any reduction in the availability of supplier credit could adversely impact the Group.
The Group Finance Director regularly meets key credit insurers to ensure that they have an up to date view of the Groups financial position.
Financial and treasury The Groups financial results may be subject to volatility arising from movements in commodity prices, foreign currencies, interest rates and the availability of sources of funding.
Pensions The Group operates a closed defined benefit scheme, where judgements are required to determine the assumptions for investment returns, future salary and pension increases, member longevity and discount rate.
There is a risk of underestimating this liability.
This risk is mitigated by agreeing appropriate investment policies with the Trustee and closely monitoring the funding position with the Trustee.
Both the Company and the Trustee take advice from independent qualified actuaries.
Information technology IT The Group is exposed to the risk that the IT systems upon which it relies fail.
The Group has appropriate controls in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure, including systems back up procedures and disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus protection and network security controls.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2013 Mark Chilton Company Secretary 17
