Statement of Corporate Governance attend.
Directors also attended a number of non-scheduled Compliance meetings to deal with special ad-hoc issues.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, Meetings Audit Remuneration and this statement describes how the Company applies the held and Board Committee Committee principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code attendance meetings meetings meetings published in May 2010 the Governance Code, which is Allan 5 5 3 3 1 1 available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: McKenzie www.
uk, throughout the financial year.
The Board David 5 5 3 3 1 1 confirms that the Company has complied throughout the Gairns accounting period to 31 August 2013 with the relevant Kathryn 5 5 n a n a provisions of the Governance Code.
Langridge Tony 4 5 n a 0 1 The Company is also a member of the Association of Lowrie Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Code of corporate governance to recognise the special Iain 5 5 3 3 n a McLaren circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the Peter 5 5 1 1 n a recommendations of the AIC Code.
Maynard Iain Watt 2 2 n a n a The Board Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee The Board consists of six non-executive Directors.
Profiles of Peter Maynard was appointed to the Audit Committee in June 2013 the Board members appear on pages 18 to 19 of the annual The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for report.
Each Director has the requisite range of business and decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these financial experience to enable the Board to provide clear and matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the effective leadership and proper stewardship of the Company.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of Mr Gairns is the Senior Independent Director SID and is investment policy, performance, gearing policy, treasury, available to shareholders in the event that there are concerns marketing, Board composition, corporate governance policy that cannot be resolved through discussion with the and communications with shareholders.
Mr Lowrie will assume the role of SID following information is provided to the Board to enable the Directors Mr Gairns retirement from the Board.
to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager The Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect which could interfere with the exercise of their independent interests of each Director and has concluded that there were judgement.
The Board takes the view that length of service no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Director does not compromise independence.
This is consistent with which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
When making a recommendation for reBoard adopts a zero tolerance approach to bribery and electing a Director, the Board will take into account the oncorruption and has implemented appropriate procedures going requirements of the Governance Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It delegates, through an investment management Performance Evaluation agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and of management of the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen the operation of the Board and its Committees, was Asset Managers Limited.
The Chairmans performance assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other more frequently where business needs require.
The Board is satisfied that each Directors there is regular contact between the Directors and the performance continues to be effective, and that each Manager throughout the year.
The following table sets out remains fully committed to the Company.
the number of routine Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year compared to the The Board undertook an externally facilitated evaluation in number of meetings that each Director was eligible to 2012 and intend to undertake a similar exercise in 2015.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25 Statement of Corporate Governance continued There is no separate Nomination Committee.
Director Remuneration Committee appraisals, succession planning, new appointments and The Remuneration Committee, which comprises David training are considered by the whole Board.
Gairns Chairman, Allan McKenzie and Tony Lowrie, is responsible for determining the level of Directors fees, Succession Planning having taken external advice.
The terms of reference are In line with the Companys strong commitment to its available on request and on the Companys website.
Details corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly of Directors remuneration are contained within the reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the Directors Remuneration Report.
Tony Lowrie will assume correct mix of relevant skills, diversity and experience for the the chairmanship of this Committee in December.
effective conduct of the Companys business.
New Directors are identified against the requirements of the Companys Internal Control business and the need to have a balanced Board.
For new The Board is responsible for the Companys system of appointments a description of the required role is prepared internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board and nominations of Directors are sought in the financial and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, investment sectors.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under The Board welcomes greater transparency in the fulfilment of review and up to the date of approval of this annual report its responsibilities to shareholders.
New Board appointments and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and are routinely facilitated by an external recruitment firm to accords with the FRCs Guidance, Internal Control: Revised ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
In Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Board all searches, the over-riding priority is to appoint the person has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk with the best mix of experience and skills to complement the management and internal control systems.
In particular, it existing make-up of the Board whilst having due regard for has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and the benefits of diversity, including gender, on the Board.
evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant Over the last few years the Board has implemented a risks faced by the Company are as follows: succession planning programme in order to provide an appropriate balance between new blood and continuity, in financial: line with good corporate governance.
This has resulted in operational: three new Board appointments since 2010, with each compliance: and Director bringing a variety of skills and experience to the reputational.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of The Companys Articles of Association provide that a the Companys assets to the Manager within overall Director appointed during the year is required to retire and guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General of internal control, including financial, operational and Meeting and that all Directors are required to submit compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Board has implemented the provisions of the function which undertakes periodic examination of business Governance Code whereby all Directors of the Company will processes, including compliance with the terms of the stand for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board has management agreement, and ensures that recommendations reviewed the skills and experience of each Director, and to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk New Directors are given appropriate induction from the management framework by each function within the Manager covering legal responsibilities, the Managers Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the operations and iinvestment trust industry matters.
All FRCs Guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market Directors are entitled to receive appropriate and relevant operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit training.
risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and There is a procedure for a Director to take independent timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
In addition, the Board has adopted its own risk matrix which 26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc identifies the key risks for the Company and covers strategy, are all deemed to be independent.
As the Board believes that investment management, operations, regulatory and Mr McKenzie is considered to be independent and there are financial obligations and third party service providers.
A no conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for monitoring system is undertaken whereby the controls to Mr McKenzie to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Three mitigate these risks, and the impact of the residual risks, are members of the Audit Committee are chartered accountants assessed on a regular basis.
and have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee considers reports from the Note 18 to the accounts provides further information on external auditor and the Managers risk management risks.
The key components designed to provide effective functions, including internal audit and compliance.
The terms internal control are outlined below: of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and rewhich allow the Board to assess the Companys activities assessed on an annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining Audit Committee are: the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk by exception.
management systems on which the Company is reliant.
The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined to consider annually whether there is a need for the investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Company to have its own internal audit function.
Reports on these issues, including to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial performance statistics and investment valuations, are statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings where necessary, the actions and judgements of the with the Manager as appropriate.
As a matter of course, the Managers compliance to meet with the external auditor to review their proposed department continually reviews the Managers operations.
audit programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
Written agreements are in place, which specifically define The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third the effectiveness of the audit process.
to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the The Board has considered the need for an internal audit external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The non-audit function but, because of the compliance and internal fees for the year to 31 August 2013 were 4,370 2012 - control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to 4,240, relating to the review of the interim accounts.
The place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit Board will review any future non-audit fees in the light of procedures.
the requirement to maintain the auditors independence.
The Audit Committee carried out six monthly reviews of to review the arrangements in place within the Manager risk management and internal controls, including the whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about internal audit and compliance functions.
At its October possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or 2013 meeting, the Audit Committee performed its annual other matters.
assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the August 2013 and taking account of events since 31 August appointment of the external auditor and to approve the 2013.
The results of the assessment were reported to the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Board.
to monitor and review annually the external auditors Internal control systems are designed to meet the independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is qualification.
At its October 2013 meeting, the Committee exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are was satisfied that the auditor remained independent and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure objective.
to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only to review the performance of the Manager and its provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against compliance with the Management Agreement.
Going Concern Accountability and Audit The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in auditor in connection with the financial statements appear most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to The members of the Audit Committee are Mr McLaren adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Chairman, Mr Gairns, Mr McKenzie and Mr Maynard who accounts, and they consider that the Company has adequate Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued resources to continue in operational existence for the Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the foreseeable future.
Managers website, at http: www.
These Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the Principles set out the Managers framework on corporate continuation of the Company every three years.
The last governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in continuation vote was in December 2012 when shareholders relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested voted in favour of continuation.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code, which appears on the Managers website, at the web-address Review of Manager given above.
The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers by the portfolio companies and for attending company performance under this Agreement.
The notice period for meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction the Company under the Agreement if it wishes to terminate from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the the Agreement is three months or on shorter notice in exercise of the Companys voting rights.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the The Board recognises and supports the Managers policy of notice period.
Following the most recent review, the Board active engagement with investee companies and the voting concluded that the Manager, whose team is well-qualified of all of the shares held by the Company.
The Board receives and experienced, had satisfactorily met the terms of its from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Agreement with the Company, and is satisfied that the Manager of the Companys voting rights and discusses with continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of the Manager any issues arising.
It is the Boards view that the Company and its shareholders.
having an active voting policy and a process for the monitoring by the Board of the Managers exercise of those Relations with Shareholders votes, especially in relation to controversial issues, aids the The Directors place great importance on communication efficient exercise of the Companys governance with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and responsibilities.
accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on Investment Policy the Company through the Managers freephone information The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in service, and the Company responds to letters from which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by back shareholder views to the Board.
The Chairman also entering into a dialogue with company management to meets with representatives of the major shareholders during encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies the financial year.
The Companys annual and half-yearly in both areas.
reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting on a show of hands.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Board has reviewed and accepts the Managers 28 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
