Report of the Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, other than the Chairman of the Board, Dr Bowe.
I am Chairman of the Committee.
The Board has taken note of the requirement that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in this respect, as I am a former partner at Ernst & Young LLP and a chartered accountant.
The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and the terms of their engagement: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: reviewing the arrangements in place within Electra Partners whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: providing advice to the Board on whether the annual financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The main matters discussed at those meetings were: review and approval of the annual plan of the external auditors: discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: detailed review of the Annual and Half Year Report and Accounts and recommendation for approval by the Board: discussion of reports from the external auditors following their audit: assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process as described below: review of the Companys key risks and internal controls: consideration of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, 2013 AIC Code of Corporate Governance, Guidance on Audit Committees and 2012 UK Stewardship Code and the impact of these on the Company.
The most significant risk in the Companys accounts is whether its investments are fairly valued and this issue is considered carefully when the Committee reviews the Companys Annual and Half Year Accounts.
The Manager provides detailed explanations of the rationale for the valuation of each investment and these are discussed in detail with Electra Partners and the auditors at a meeting of the Valuations Committee which is attended by all members of the Audit Committee.
The auditors separately report the conclusions from their work.
The Committee concluded that the valuation process had been properly carried out and that the investments have been fairly valued.
The Committee is also keen to ensure that the Managers priority profit share and incentive scheme provisions are correctly provided for in the Accounts due to the sensitive nature of these amounts.
The Committee ensures that the auditors have checked that the amounts are consistent with the management agreement and are correctly calculated.
The auditors confirmed to the Committee that they had not identified any issues relating to their work in this area and the Committee concluded that the figures are fairly stated.
Auditing standards require the auditors to consider the risks of both fraud in revenue recognition and management override of controls.
The principal areas where there could be a material impact from these risks are in respect of investment valuations and the related incentive provisions, which are discussed above.
I report to the Board after each Committee meeting on the main matters discussed at the meeting.
The Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditors.
In doing so the Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, 80 the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the auditors to tender for the audit work.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years and the current partner has been in place for two years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company law the reappointment of the external auditors is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
 LLP and its predecessor firms have been the auditors of the Company since its listing in 1976 and the audit has not been put out to tender during that time.
The Financial Reporting Council has stated that FTSE 350 companies should put the audit services contract out to tender at least once every ten years, to enable the audit committee to compare the quality and effectiveness of the services provided by the incumbent auditor with those of other audit firms.
Under the transitional arrangements, companies may defer the first tendering process to coincide with the five-yearly rotation of audit partner.
The Company intends to put the audit out to tender, at the latest, following the completion of the audit for the accounts for the year ending 30 September 2016.
The Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services and believes them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
It has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors for the Company must be approved by myself and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
The non-audit services include the provision of taxation advice and agreed upon procedures performed in respect of Electras Internal Controls Monitoring Report as reported below.
It is the Groups practice to employ  LLP on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are important, principally tax advice and compliance matters, or where they have been awarded assignments on a competitive basis.
These services are services that could be provided by a number of firms.
Work is allocated to the auditors only if it does not impact upon the independence of the audit team.
It is of note that, under their fully discretionary mandate over investment activities, Electra Partners may engage  LLP without reference to the Audit Committee in relation to investment transactions.
Given the separation of responsibilities and reporting lines as between the role of external auditors to the Company and advisors to Electra Partners, the Committee is satisfied that this work does not compromise their independence as external auditors.
Following the review carried out by the Committee as to whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, the Board has considered and continues to believe that the internal control systems in place within Electra Partners and the internal control reports provided by it give sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
In addition, the work of the external auditors is extended to include agreed upon procedures which test certain of Electra Partners internal controls.
The Committee considers, therefore, that an internal audit function specific to the Company is unnecessary.
Mr Roger Perkin, Chairman of the Audit Committee Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 26 November 2013 81
