Directors Terms of Appointment It is the Boards policy that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
The AIC Codes provisions on re-election of Directors state that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Whilst the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350, the Board does not consider it to be in the interests of shareholders that all Directors should be re-elected annually.
A number of shareholders in the Company have supported this view on the basis that annual re-election could engender a short term culture.
Therefore the Company did not introduce annual re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting held in 2013 and at future Annual General Meetings it will continue to comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association and the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment in relation to the re-election of Directors.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Boards policy on Directors Terms of Appointment, Ms Barker will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2014 and offer herself for re-election.
Ms Barnes and Mrs Gold will offer themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2014.
Biographical details of the Directors seeking election or re-election are set out on pages 83 and 84.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Advisor during the year under review.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, other than the Chairman of the Board, Dr Bowe.
Mr Perkin is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met three times in the year under review and the report of its activities is contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 80 and 81.
The Committee has terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors of the Company, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board considers it appropriate, given the number of Directors, that the Committee should comprise all Directors.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee was chaired by Ms Webber until her retirement from the Board in March 2013 when Ms Barker was appointed as Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met three times in the year under review, to consider the appointments of Ms Barnes and Mrs Gold as Directors and to review Directors remuneration.
During the year the Committee engaged the services of The Zygos Partnership, an external search consultant, in relation to the appointment of additional Directors.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the Company.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for remuneration of the Directors.
The Remuneration Policy of the Company is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 74.
Where appropriate, the Committee will both consider the need to judge the position of the Company relative to other companies regarding the remuneration of Directors and the need to appoint external remuneration consultants.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the 77
