Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in February 2013.
The AIC Code as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in September 2012, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year to 30 September 2013 except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has, therefore, not reported further in respect of these provisions.
In addition, the AIC Code includes provisions relating to the annual re-election of Directors of FTSE 350 companies which the Board considers are not relevant to the position of the Company as explained further below.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised seven Directors as 30 September 2013, all of whom were non-executive.
The Board appointed Ms F Barnes as a non-executive Director with effect from the Annual General Meeting held on 7 March 2013 following the retirement of Ms L Webber on the same date.
Additionally the Board appointed Mrs J Gold as a non-executive Director on 12 September 2013.
The Board has nominated Ms K Barker as the Senior Independent Director.
Dr Bowe has announced her intention to retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 11 March 2014.
Mr R Yates will be appointed as Chairman of the Company with effect from the same date.
The Directors terms of appointment are available for inspection on request.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with Electra Partners.
Management agreements between the Company and Electra Partners set out the matters for which Electra Partners is responsible and those over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors attended the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
