Corporate governance report Leadership The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group Directors attendance Meetings Possible and has overall authority for the management and conduct of attended attendance the Groups business, strategy and development.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound Name of Director system of internal control and risk management including: Peter Wood Chairman 10 10 financial, operational and compliance controls, and for reviewing the overall e ectiveness of systems in place, and Stuart Vann CEO 10 10 for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and Darren Ogden CFO 10 10 management structure of the Group.
Dame Helen Alexander 9 10 To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure there is independent oversight of internal control and risk 1 David Calder 66 management, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities 2 Mara Dolores Dancausa 11 to Board committees, which, except for the Investment Committee and the Nomination Committee, are comprised 3 Mike Evans 33 of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination 4 Committee is comprised of a majority of Independent Shirley Garrood 33 Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of each Board Anthony Hobson 9 10 committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Board committee meetings.
Each Board committee has Anne Richards 9 10 agreed Terms of Reference approved by the Board.
5 Charles Schrager von Altishofen 66 The full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards Peter Ward 10 10 decision along with the Terms of Reference of the Boards key committees is available to view online at 6 Andrew Whitehouse 33 www.
com investors 1 David Calder resigned from the Board on 27 March 2013.
Board Meetings 2 Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed to the Board on 9 December 2013.
The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the 3 Mike Evans was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2013. year.
A er Listing on 27 March 2013, four scheduled Board meetings were held.
Prior to Listing, six Board meetings were 4 Shirley Garrood was appointed to the Board on 31 July 2013. held.
In future, there will be seven scheduled Board meetings 5 Charles Schrager von Altishofen resigned from the Board on 27 March 2013. held each year, plus an annual strategy meeting.
6 Andrew Whitehouse resigned from the Board on 25 February 2013.
When necessary, we hold additional Board meetings, and in 2013, we held two additional meetings primarily to discuss our Diversity esure Group is strongly committed to the merits of diversity at IPO.
If unable to attend a meeting, Directors are encouraged to give their views and comments on matters to be discussed to Board level and throughout the Business.
We are committed to carrying out candidate searches across the widest possible the Chairman in advance.
Meeting attendance by each of the Directors is shown opposite.
pool of talent against a set of objective criteria based on merit: but with due regard to the bene ts of diversity, including At each meeting, the CEO and CFO reported on operational gender.
Currently 40% of the Board is female.
Reports were also provided on the activities of the Boards Audit, Nomination, Investment, Our Executive Committee has two women on a committee Risk and Remuneration Committees by the Chairman of of 11 members 19%.
Of our senior managers, 27.7% are each committee.
female: this increases to 39.3% for managers.
Our overall percentage of female sta is 51.3%.
We shall continue to develop the potential of women throughout the corporate pipeline.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 36 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Chairman and the Chief Executive O cer Non-Executive Directors The roles of the Chairman and the CEO are separate with The Non-Executive Directors bring a very broad level of responsibilities clearly divided.
experience and independent judgement to the Board and make a valuable contribution to achieving our objectives.
The Chairman and the CEO meet regularly and keep in They provide a strong independent element on the Board close contact as they are a critical link between the Board and are well placed to challenge constructively and help and senior management.
They also liaise on strategic and develop proposals on strategy.
Dame Helen Alexander is the Deputy Chairman and also the The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
Board and ensuring its e ectiveness in all aspects of its role.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Company Secretary The CEO is responsible for the performance and The Company Secretary provides administrative and management of the Groups Business.
In addition to logistical support to the Board.
Advice and support are also membership of the Board, the CEO leads the Executive given on governance, compliance and regulatory matters.
Committee, the Groups most senior operational body, The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors charged with recommending and then implementing the and ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Directors external activities and con icts of interest Group.
All potential con icts approved by the Board are Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which recorded in an Interests Register, which is reviewed on an they have or may have interests that con ict with those of the annual basis by the Board to ensure that the procedure is Company, unless that con ict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential con icts that may arise when a Director Executive Directors may take up only one FTSE 100 nontakes up a position with another company.
The Companys executive directorship and are allowed to retain any fees Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise such they receive for such appointments.
Stuart Vann and Darren potential con icts: and there is, in place, a procedure to deal Ogden do not hold any such directorships.
with any actual or potential con ict of interest.
The Board deals with each appointment on its individual merit and takes Executive Committee into consideration all the circumstances.
Prior to taking on The CEO and CFO are complemented by a strong and additional responsibilities or external appointments, Directors experienced senior management team comprising nine are obliged to obtain authorisation from the Chairman and it executives with an average of 20 years experience in the is their responsibility to ensure that they will be able to meet insurance industry.
the time commitment expected of them in their role at esure Executive Committee Stuart Vann Chief Executive O cer Darren Boland Jon Wilshire Darren Ogden Mark Foulsham Gordon Hannah Chief Risk O cer Chief Underwriting Chief Finance Chief Information Chief Operating O cer O cer O cer O cer Carole Timms Nick Edwards Adrian Webb Sue Inglis Jon Morrell Head of HR General Counsel and Head of Marketing Head of Claims esure broker MD Company Secretary and Communications Deputy COO esure Group Annual Report 2013 37
