Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, Bovis Homes made demonstrable progress during 2013, delivering a further significant improvement in returns, a continuation of substantial land investment and a materially increased forward order book for 2014.
I am excited by the Groups growth strategy and the progress that has been made against a backdrop of improving market conditions.
The foundations are in place that will help to Ian Tyler drive growth for the future.
Chairman I am delighted to introduce my first Corporate Governance The non-executive directors provided constructive challenge and Report, following my appointment as Chairman at the end assisted in developing strategy and proposals put forward by of November 2013.
Bovis Homes has a reputation for high the executive directors and the balance of non-executive and standards of corporate governance, which enables the executive directors worked well.
Board meetings were again held Board to function effectively in supporting and monitoring in all of the operating regions during the year and included open senior management in the implementation of strategy.
discussion with management teams on land acquisitions, new Strong growth is being delivered and this is translating into sales outlets and progress with their objectives.
I am excited and optimistic about There were no changes in our corporate governance best the future at Bovis Homes and have learnt a great deal about practice during 2013.
During the year, the Board reviewed its the way it delivers value during my formal tailored induction policy on diversity, without making any substantive changes to and through discussions with the other directors and senior the published version, which states that we will always make management.
These discussions have reinforced my perception appointments to the Board based on merit.
of good corporate governance as a strength at Bovis Homes, and my first Board and Committee meetings confirmed my view of a I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for their warm strong Board and a well managed Group.
and open welcome and I look forward to their collective support and strong individual contributions during the coming year.
This report has been prepared and approved by the Board.
My predecessor, Malcolm Harris, retired from the Board at the On behalf of the Board, I confirm that during 2013 your end of November 2013 after five and a half years as Chairman, Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate having been Chief Executive for twelve years, and the Board Governance Code the Code, with the exception that a would like to recognise and thank him for his enormous performance evaluation of the previous Chairman, Malcolm contribution to Bovis Homes.
On behalf of the Board, I would Harris, was not carried out at the end of the year, given the also like to thank Colin Holmes, who is retiring at the AGM after timing of his retirement from the Board.
The Company remains seven years as Remuneration Committee Chairman, both for his compliant with the Code in all other respects.
I personally carried valuable contribution in this role and as a non-executive director.
out the 2013 Board performance evaluation, which enabled me to gain first-hand knowledge of recent performance and valuable Bovis Homes values its dialogue with all our shareholders, insights for the future.
Further information is provided on page whether in meetings and presentations during the year or at 36 including the outcomes that we will be pursuing during 2014. our AGM.
I look forward to meeting as many major shareholders as possible during the year.
Our 2014 AGM will be held on 2013 saw the full range of Board activities from review and 16 May 2014 and you will find the Notice at the end of this challenge of strategy, including our strategy day, to presentations Annual Report.
I look forward to chairing my first AGM and from regional management, site visits and review of succession meeting shareholders that can attend.
planning for both our non-executive directors and executives.
Ian Tyler Chairman Bovis Bovis Homes Homes Group Group PLC PLC || 33 33 Introduction The Board This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the the long-term success of the Group and its strategy, values and Financial Reporting Council publicly available at www.
It provides leadership, sets the Groups strategic uk and also describes how the governance framework, set out objectives and approves and monitors progress with business in the annex to this report, is applied.
plans, budgets and forecasts, applying independent judgment.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed and The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, approved annually by the Board and a copy is available on the throughout 2013, complied with and applied the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as set out below, with Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre the exception that a performance evaluation of the outgoing corporate-governance.
Chairman was not completed at the end of 2013 as a result of The governance structure in 2013 is shown below.
his retirement from the Board towards the year end.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Group Executive Committee Bovis Homes Ltd Board South West South East Central Regional Board Regional Board Regional Board Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, the A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction was provided, Board comprised the Chairman, who is non-executive, three including visits to the regions and meetings with senior independent non-executives and two executive directors.
On 29 November 2013, Malcolm Harris retired from the Biographical details for the directors are provided on page 32.
Board and Ian Tyler was appointed as the new non-executive Their dates of appointment retirement, length of service to Chairman.
Ian was considered independent by the Board on the end of 2013 and attendance at Board meetings in 2013 are appointment, which followed a recommendation from the shown below.
Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings 28 06 1996 retired 29 11 2013 Malcolm Harris Chairman 5.5 years 7 7 current role 03 07 2008 Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 1 month 1 1 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Deputy Chairman 5 years 7 8 Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Non-executive 7 years 8 8 John Warren 01 03 2006 Non-executive 7.5 years 7 8 01 07 2002 David Ritchie Chief Executive 5.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 2008 Jonathan Hill 23 08 2010 Group Finance Director 3.5 years 8 8 34 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Corporate governance report Our governance The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and experience At each Board meeting during 2013: and has a strong blend of skills, which has allowed it to perform the CEO provided a review of business and current trading effectively to a high level during 2013.
The new non-executive performance, recent developments and strategic issues.
Chairman brings a strong track record of commercial experience in construction and infrastructure related industries which are the GFD provided a financial review, including results and latest expected to benefit the Group in the ongoing execution of its projections, budgets, forecasts, Group KPIs and an analysis of growth strategy.
share price valuation and movements.
The three non-executive directors have been determined by the the Board received regular reports covering health and safety, Board to be independent in character and judgement with no customer satisfaction, major shareholdings, litigation and relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or that could appear human resources.
At particular points in the year, the Board reviewed: In accordance with the Code, all the directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the strategy, management of risk, financial statements and regulatory exception of Colin Holmes who has decided to retire from the announcements, dividend policy and bank facility refinancing.
The Board strongly supports all the individual directors re-elections, taking account of the balance of skills and use of information technology and the marketing programme.
expertise and the performance of the Board as a whole.
succession planning and the outcome of the 2012 Board All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the performance evaluation.
details are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 47.
The Board also reviewed other topics, such as the market A further term for John Warren running until the AGM in 2015 environment, land acquisitions, land sales, analysis of competitors, was approved by the Board on 21 January 2014. investor and analyst feedback, and regulatory and governance In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted by developments.
the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has authorised Four meetings were held in London and four were held in the an actual conflict of interest and reviews annually a number of regions, providing the opportunity to meet and interact with potential conflicts of interest.
The Board is satisfied that powers to local management teams.
Each of the three regions provided a authorise actual and potential conflicts are operating effectively.
presentation to the Board at these meetings and question and As mentioned in the Nomination Committee report, a progressive answer sessions followed.
One meeting was preceded by an and orderly refreshing of the Board through to 2015 and beyond informal evening meeting with the Group Executive Committee the is underway, led by the new Chairman, and diversity is one senior management below the Board and the Board also met its consideration as part of this process.
members at other points in the year.
Visits to sites and sales outlets, including product viewings, took place in each of the three regions.
Board meetings The annual strategy day in July provided the Board with the There were eight meetings during 2013.
The Board maintains and opportunity for an in-depth review of the immediate and longer reviews a rolling agenda plan, which ensures that all key issues term strategy for the Group and was preceded by an informal and matters reserved to the Board are discussed at the appropriate evening meeting with external guests.
The Chairman reviews draft meeting agendas with the CEO and Company Secretary and the Company Secretary maintains a The previous and current Chairmen also held meetings with the schedule of matters arising which is reviewed at each meeting.
non-executive directors without the executives present.
The Board receives a comprehensive electronic meeting pack a week in advance of each meeting plus any other information required to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an atmosphere of open discussion and debate, which enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 35 increased its knowledge of alternative business models and Board performance evaluation their relative performance.
The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own performance towards the end of 2013.
This started with a Individual director assessments were carried out by the new questionnaire designed to assess performance and ongoing Chairman towards the end of 2013, using a discussion and effectiveness across key areas in 2013 and to maintain visibility interview process which covered overall understanding of on progress and outcomes since the 2011 external performance the business, effectiveness of contribution and challenge, evaluation.
It was followed by an interview process, conducted communications, time commitments and training and by the new Chairman with the directors, which explored and development.
The outcomes showed that all the directors are expanded on the views expressed.
contributing effectively and are demonstrating commitment to their roles.
A report was then presented to the Board and discussed.
The overall conclusion was positive.
The Board continues to As explained in the introduction, a 2013 performance operate effectively, with meetings being held in an atmosphere evaluation of the outgoing Chairman was not carried out as of open discussion and challenge, which facilitates debate a result of his retirement from the Board at the end of and decision making.
A common sense of purpose, strong November 2013.
A performance evaluation of the new communication and positive relationships were maintained Chairman will be led by the Senior Independent Director at during 2013.
The broad range of expertise and experience the end of 2014. amongst the non-executive directors is a key strength and the size and structure of the Board was thought appropriate for Board committees the current business.
Future succession planning will include The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and consideration of Board diversity, whilst looking to maintain the Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and strengths on the Board.
activities are set out in separate reports: Audit Committee on pages 62 and 63, Nomination Committee on page 64, and The Board undertook the first external independent performance Remuneration Committee on pages 43 to 61.
Each Committee evaluation towards the end of 2011.
This was conducted by reports to and has terms of reference approved by the Board Independent Audit who have no other connection with and the minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to and the Company using a document review, followed by an are reviewed by the Board.
Priority action items were addressed during 2012 and during 2013 ongoing progress with secondary action The Audit Committee is chaired by John Warren, the items was kept under review.
Following the internal formal Remuneration Committee is chaired by Colin Holmes and evaluation completed in 2012 the Board: the Nomination Committee is chaired by Ian Tyler.
With the retirement of Colin Holmes at the AGM, Alastair Lyons will be increased focus on specific strategic issues appointed chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
reviewed the risk appetite and selected past investment The Board completed a performance evaluation of its decisions, Committees during 2013 and it was concluded that they were continued to review the composition of the Board, including contributing and functioning effectively and all were achieving through the Nomination Committee their respective remits.
Focus areas Objectives for 2014 Strategy Continue to increase the Boards focus on specific strategic issues, including early discussion planning input from the non-executivies for the strategy day.
Further increase engagement with regional management teams on visits to the regions.
Board meetings Succession planning Continue to focus on non-executive succession planning, and to review the composition of the Board, including skills, experience and with regard to diversity.
Further improve non-executive visibility of changing market trends and anticipated changes in Market conditions operational performance.
36 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Corporate governance report Our governance The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures Governance supporting the business directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits our business and further details are set out below.
Information on share capital is provided on page 67.
Amongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of the Shareholder engagement Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of operations The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, and performance, capital structure, financial reporting, internal which allows the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to controls and approval of major expenditure and transactions.
regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to oneThe Board has approved a written division of responsibilities to-one meetings through the year, the Company holds a series of between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive presentations and meetings following the announcement of the and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has been final and half-yearly results.
These presentations are made publicly similarly defined.
available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups website at www.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for: At the beginning of June 2013, the Company hosted an analyst the effective working of the Board, and investor visit to its sales outlets at Filton, which included a site tour, product viewings and a presentation focused on progress taking a leading role in determining the Boards composition in delivering strategy.
Regional management attended and were and structure, and available for discussion and the event was well received.
ensuring that effective communications are maintained with The Board reviews feedback on investor relations meetings, visits shareholders.
and presentations, including the matters communicated and The Chief Executive is responsible for: discussed.
During 2013, the feedback was positive and helpful to the Board.
the operational management of the Group, The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders views.
developing strategic operating plans and presenting them to the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are Board, and aware of any issues or concerns that major shareholders may have.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior Independent the implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
Director is accessible to shareholders.
During the year, the previous The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that Chairman and the Deputy Chairman met with the Groups largest the Board is effective and constructive relations are maintained, shareholder for discussion, which included Chairman succession.
in addition to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the other non-executive which capacity he leads the annual performance evaluation of directors attend analyst and investor presentations, giving major the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact for shareholders the opportunity to put their views and hold discussion shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which The Companys Management Paper is subject to regular this year will be held on 16 May 2014.
The full Board, including Board review.
It contains appropriate controls, authorities and all Committee chairmen, attend and it values this meeting as a procedures across the range of the Groups activities and includes means of communicating with private investors and encourages the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board their participation.
All shareholders have the opportunity to to management.
exercise their right to vote and can appoint proxies if they are The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary unable to attend.
To facilitate this we provide an electronic are available to the directors.
All directors have access to the voting facility.
Shareholders attending the AGM have the Companys professional advisers and can seek independent opportunity to ask questions relevant to the business of the professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was meeting and hear the views of other shareholders before voting.
After the meeting the results of voting on all resolutions are published on the Groups website.
Training is made available to directors when required and the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills and familiarity with the Company, as appropriate to their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During 2013 the directors received governance, regulatory and technical updates.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 37 Control framework Additional information The Group maintains a control environment, which is regularly Risk management and internal control reviewed by the Board.
As new procedures and working The Code states that a board is responsible for determining practices are adopted, risk factors are reviewed and internal the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing controls embedded into systems.
The principal elements of to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has the control environment include regular board meetings, the agreed that this important principle should form part of its regional structure, defined operating controls and authorisation consideration of strategy and all major decisions.
The Board limits, an Internal Audit function and a comprehensive financial also has responsibility for maintaining sound risk management reporting system.
and internal control systems and, whilst monitoring and review There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control forms part of the work undertaken by the Audit Committee, and risk management systems that are specifically related to the the Board is ultimately responsible for the management Groups financial reporting process: of risk.
Risk is a regular agenda item, which allows all directors to review the quality of risk management processes, risk there is a well understood management structure which mitigation and the risk appetite.
allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular level of financial control.
The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating the structure is underpinned by documented authority and managing the risks that are considered significant by the levels for business transactions laid out in the Groups Company, in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Management Paper.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the process is further supported by process documents for the Annual Report and Accounts and includes compliance both internal management reporting and external Group with provision C. 2.1.
It is designed to manage rather than reporting which stipulates amongst other things reporting eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute timetables and contents of key management reports.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Monitoring is The Group maintains computer systems that record financial based principally on reviewing reports from Internal Audit and transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the Internal from management and covers all controls, including financial, Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising from operational and compliance controls and risk management these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Board operates a robust process of risk reporting and has clear procedures for identification and monitoring of Control over cash expenditure, which lies at the heart of any key risks.
financial reporting process, is key.
The Group maintains tight The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control control in this area through a centralised Group payment and risk management systems annually and reports its findings function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and to the Board.
It receives reports from the internal and external segregation of authorisation accountability.
auditors and management which assess the effectiveness The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial of internal control and risk management and make reporting cycle, allowing management to assess the financial recommendations for improvements.
This is further supported by a formal Risk assessment budget and forecast process which ensures that there is a As the activities of the Group evolve and grow, the nature of robust and relatively recent financial forecast in place at all the risks on which it focuses evolve.
A key part of the system times against which to assess performance.
Together with this of internal control is the maintenance of the risk analysis financial reporting, the Group requires its regional management and matrix, compiled using the risk universe as the basis of teams to report key business issues as part of a monthly identification and a process of evaluation that distils the impact regional reporting pack on a standardised basis.
of key risks, mitigation measures and residual risk for Board Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which ensures review, leading to assessment of changing risk tolerance and, that there is an audit trail between the output from the Groups ultimately, the risk appetite.
During 2013, a full risk review and financial reporting system and the Groups financial statements an interim risk review took place.
In setting its approach, the as they are prepared for reporting.
Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
38 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Corporate governance report Our governance Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries consist of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts covering the period January 2014 to December 2016.
These forecasts take into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at future cash flow estimates.
As part of this review, the Group has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period linked to its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident between the forecast covenant test outcomes and the outcomes necessary to achieve covenant compliance.
The Group entered into a new banking arrangement on 29 January 2013.
This arrangement provides a committed revolving credit facility with a limit of 125 million maturing in March 2017 and a three year term loan of 25 million maturing in January 2016.
On 23 August 2013, the limit for the committed revolving credit facility was increased by 50 million until 31 December 2015.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had no drawings under the 175 million revolving credit facility, and had net debt of 18 million.
The Group regards the new banking arrangement as adequate in terms of flexibility and liquidity for its needs, particularly as the committed facility was increased by 50 million as recently as August 2013.
More details on the Groups approach to financial risk management are laid out in note 4.6.
For these reasons, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its accounts.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 39 Annex to corporate governance report Corporate governance policy guidelines These guidelines have been adopted by the Board 5 Number of directors and provide guidance on how corporate governance An appropriate balance between executive and nonprinciples are applied by the Company.
executive directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
The number of nonexecutive directors is decided so as to provide the diversity 1 Board membership and balance of skills, ability, vision and experience necessary for a sound The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular independent contribution to the Board and the successful basis to ensure that it remains appropriate for the management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, successful direction of the business activities of the Group.
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, will comprise Consideration is given to boardroom diversity and the mix independent non-executive directors.
of experience, skills, ability and vision of executive and nonexecutive directors by the Nomination Committee.
6 Length of appointment The Nomination Committee and the Board give regular Executive directors are employed on service contracts with consideration to planning for succession to Board and notice periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive senior management positions, ensuring that appropriate directors service agreements set the length of their management development measures are in place.
The Board appointments at periods of up to three years and their currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman also notice periods up to twelve months.
Their total length of the Senior Independent Director, two further independent appointment would not normally exceed nine years from non-executive directors and two executive directors.
the date of their first AGM election.
The renewal of service agreements after two three year 2 Board selection terms is subject to rigorous review and based on annual The Board receives recommendations on the appointment re-appointment thereafter, with the third year of the third of directors from the Nomination Committee, following an term extending until the next following AGM.
evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity available on the Board.
This Board committee Under the Articles of Association, all directors are subject to comprises the independent non-executive directors, the retirement by rotation at least once in every three years at Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required in the AGM New directors appointed by the Board must be considering proposed changes to Board membership.
re-appointed by shareholders at the following AGM.
The Board has agreed that, in accordance with the Code, all 3 Non-executive director independence directors will offer themselves for re-election at each AGM.
The non-executive directors are independent in character and 7 Director training judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive independent judgement on matters under consideration tailored induction to the Groups business activities, by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and being a strategy and methods of operating, policies, procedures shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or and management structure.
Directors receive training to prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
complement their roles on the Board and Board Committees, as necessary.
4 Chairman and Chief Executive 8 Director remuneration The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of roles which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board, the policy for executive remuneration and the Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be remuneration for the Chairman, each of the executive a non-executive position.
The role of the Deputy Chairman directors and senior management in accordance with its terms has also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
40 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Corporate governance report Our governance External remuneration advice appropriate to the size and position of the Company is sought when required.
Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board without their participation.
9 Financial information and internal control The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary statement, interim management statements and other public financial information is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors.
10 Supply of information Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary determine the agenda for each Board meeting and papers are circulated in advance so that matters can be properly considered by the directors.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision is maintained and detailed authorities and associated procedures have been established for individual directors in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes annual performance evaluations and a formal external performance evaluation every third year.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
