The Committee plays a fundamental role in protecting shareholders interests, with a remit that covers financial reporting, risk, internal control and oversight of external and internal audit.
J ohn Warren Committee Chairman Committee membership and meetings Main activities during the year The three members of the Committee are independent nonThe Committee followed a programme structured around executive directors and have relevant experience as required by the annual reporting cycle and received reports from Internal the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Biographical details are Audit, the external auditors and management.
The key activities provided on page 32. undertaken were: Discussed with the external auditors the key accounting Recommendations on Committee membership are made to the considerations and judgements reflected in the Groups results Board by the Nomination Committee and it is also reviewed as for the 12 months ending 31 December 2012. part of the Committees performance evaluation.
There were no changes to Committee membership during the year.
The Company Reviewed the 2012 annual report and accounts, to be able Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend to recommend to the Board that they presented a true and meetings by invitation and all were present at all meetings in 2013. fair view.
The external auditors, KPMG LLP, and the Internal Audit Director Considered and recommended to the Board the presentations were also in attendance at all meetings.
Attendance Assessed the results and effectiveness of the 2012 final audit.
Name Date of appointment Role at meetings Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors the key John Warren 01 03 2006 Chairman 3 3 accounting considerations and judgements reflected in the Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 Groups results for the six months ending 30 June 2013.
Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 3 3 Evaluated and agreed the external auditors audit strategy memorandum in advance of their 2013 year-end audit.
The Committee met three times in 2013 and an overview of the Received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of main activities is provided below.
Detailed papers and information the Groups operations, controls and processes.
were received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper Assessed and agreed the internal auditors audit plan for 2014, consideration of matters for discussion.
The Committee also met based on the agreed risk universe, together with the required with the external auditors and Internal Audit, without executive level of resource.
management, following the final audit and the review of the 2012 financial statements and the 2012 Internal Audit report.
No matters Monitored progress against actions from the external formal of concern were raised in these discussions.
John Warren also met review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function privately with both the audit engagement partner of the external completed in 2012. auditors and the Internal Audit Director during the year.
The Group Reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
risk management systems and reported to the Board that there were no material control weaknesses.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Reviewed the managements going concern assessment at each The key responsibilities of the Committee are: reporting period end, considering detailed financial forecasts, Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, the future cash flow projections and the resources available to accompanying reports to shareholders and corporate the Group, including the current banking facility and forecast governance statements, including reviewing the findings of covenant compliance.
Assessed and concluded queries and points of clarification raised Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of systems for by the FRC in a letter concerning certain accounting disclosures internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
Overseeing and reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy and arrangements.
appointment and removal of external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement.
At its meeting in February 2014, the Committee discussed with the external auditors the key accounting considerations and Reviewing and monitoring the external audit process and the judgements reflected in the Groups results for the 12 months independence and objectivity of the auditors, as well as the ending 31 December 2013 and reviewed the 2013 annual report nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
and accounts, to be able to recommend to the Board that, Developing the policy on the engagement of the external taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced and understandable and auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the relevant ethical guidance.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
62 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Audit Committee report Our governance At its meeting in February 2014, the Committee reviewed the Significant areas effectiveness of the external audit process as part of its consideration The key accounting judgements considered by the Committee of the 2013 final audit.
in relation to the 2013 accounts and discussed with the external auditors, were: This included assessing delivery and content against the audit plan for the 2013 year end audit, including perceived changes in audit risks, Inventory provisioning - the level of inventory provisioning impacts consideration of the performance of the audit team and the quality of the carrying value of the most significant balance on the balance reporting, reviewing comprehensive papers from the external auditors, sheet.
Since the downturn in the land market in 2008 the Company discussing and challenging conclusions and audit judgements and has carried a provision to write down the carrying value of the land assessing responses from the external auditor, and obtaining feedback held within inventories to the lower of cost and net realisable about the effectiveness and conduct of the audit from those involved.
value, less costs to sell, where this is less than the historic cost.
The assessment of the level of provision required, requires the Our 2014 AGM Notice contains a resolution for the re-appointment exercise of significant judgement by management.
The Committee of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company.
In making this receives a regular report on this provision, updated by management, recommendation, the Committee took into account, amongst at relevant Committee meetings.
At this year end the paper other matters, the independence and objectivity of KPMG LLP, the proposed an immaterial adjustment, which was in line with the effectiveness of the external audit process and cost.
The 2014 AGM forecast position and had been audited by the external auditors prior Notice also contains a resolution to give the directors authority to to the year end.
The written down sites and any adjustments determine the auditors remuneration, which provides a practical proposed were discussed and justified by management and the land flexibility to the Committee.
The external auditors have been in post write down provision remaining at the period end 19.9 million since flotation in 1997 and there are no contractual restrictions on was reviewed, together with the profit attributable to the reversal of the choice of external auditor.
The Committee has considered the the provision on the sale of written down units during the year, length of KPMGs tenure and the UK Corporate Governance Code which was not considered to be material.
Following discussion, the requirements to tender external audit contracts at least every ten years Committee was satisfied that the judgements exercised were and, whilst satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and independence, appropriate and that the provision was appropriately stated at the intends to conduct an audit tender process in the second half of 2014. year end.
Details of the movements in the provision are provided in In doing so, the Committee would comply with the Competition note 3.1 to the accounts on page 83.
Commission Order relating to the statutory audit market for FTSE 350 Available for sale financial assets - the assumptions used to fair companies expected to come into effect from 1 October 2014. value available for sale financial assets, otherwise known as shared The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the equity and details of which are provided in note 4.2 on page 86, Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be affects the carrying value on the balance sheet.
These assumptions undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory require the exercise of significant judgement by management.
This is and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business assessed through the Committee discussing with management and and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
the auditors the assumptions adopted and any adjustments made to When an approval request is made, the Committee has due regard those assumptions, including, in particular, the long run HPI to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor assumption which is a key determinant of the expected final is a suitable supplier, and whether there is likely to be any threat redemption value.
Following discussion the Committee considered to independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit.
that the assumptions adopted were reasonable.
The related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit fee is also considered.
For an analysis of fees paid to the external auditors, External auditors see note 2.1 on page 81.
The non-audit services provided during During the year, KPMG Audit Plc resigned as auditors as a result of the year related to tax advisory and compliance work.
Provision KPMGs decision to gradually wind down activity in KPMG Audit Plc of these services is not considered to impair the external auditors and the Board appointed KPMG LLP to fill the casual vacancy.
The Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, which was confirmed in an independence letter Performance evaluation containing information on procedures providing safeguards established The Committee commenced a performance evaluation towards the by the external auditor.
Regulation, professional requirements and end of 2013, using a discussion and interview process designed to ethical standards were taken into account, together with consideration produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and audit effectiveness.
The Committee was found to be effective and and their staff.
Relations with the external auditors were managed continued to be well run, with the level of accounting and financial through a series of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure expertise providing strong challenge.
It was also concluded that the a high quality audit by challenging the key areas of the external Committee had appropriate terms of reference and had fulfilled its auditors work.
The relationship is kept under review and, following remit in 2013 and that the audit process continued to be effective.
adopted practice, the audit engagement partner rotated on completion of the 2011 final audit after five years in the post.
John Warren Chairman of the Audit Committee 21 February 2014 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 63
