The Committee reviews the balance and composition of the Board and maintains a focus on succession planning.
Ian Tyler Committee Chairman Committee membership and meetings Main activities during the year All members of the Committee are independent non-executive During 2013, the Committee: directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company and Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and the Chief Executive.
Malcolm Harris chaired the Committee until concluded that the present Board balance and composition 29 November 2013 when Ian Tyler was appointed and took over.
remained appropriate, but would be kept under review.
The other members of the Committee during 2013 were Alastair Ran the recruitment process for the new Chairman of the Lyons, Colin Holmes, John Warren and David Ritchie.
Company, using objective criteria and the external search services Attendance of The Zygos Partnership who have no other connection with the Name Date of appointment Role at meetings Company, and recommended appointment of the new Chairman Malcolm Harris 18 12 1998 Chairman 3 5 to the Board.
retired 29 11 2013 Considered succession planning for the other non-executive Ian Tyler 29 11 2013 Chairman 1 1 directors looking forward to 2015, including the phasing of new appointments, as part of a progressive and orderly refreshing of Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 6 6 the Board.
Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 6 6 Reviewed planning for executive director and senior management succession, against a background of organisational development.
John Warren 01 03 2006 Member 6 6 Recommended that all the directors stand for re-election at David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 6 6 the 2013 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee met six times in 2013.
Alastair Lyons chaired two meetings and parts of other meetings that discussed Chairman Approved the Nomination Committee report for the 2012 succession planning.
The new Chairman of the Company, Ian Tyler, Annual Report.
chaired the final meeting of the year.
For all meetings, papers were Reviewed and updated the Committees terms of reference.
circulated sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
The Group Company Secretary acts as The Committee also reviewed the results of the 2012 internal Board secretary to the Committee.
performance evaluation relating to the composition of the Board and to ensure all the directors had sufficient time to devote to their duties.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Non-executive directors service contracts are renewed on an The key responsibilities of the Committee are: annual basis following the conclusion of a second three year term, subject to satisfactory performance and no need to re-balance the Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Board, with the third year of the third term extending until the including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and subsequent AGM.
Recommendations were made to the Board that making recommendations to the Board.
service contracts for John Warren and Colin Holmes be renewed for Considering succession planning for directors and senior further terms, following rigorous review, including their respective executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities contributions, performance and commitment to their roles.
facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and the the future.
Committee reviewed the diversity policy, first published in September Monitoring the leadership needs of the Company and leading 2011.
The policy sets out that appointments to the Board will always the process for Board appointments, ensuring they are be based on merit, so that the Board has the right individuals in place, conducted on merit, against objective criteria including diversity, and explains that diversity is seen as an important consideration as using the services of an appropriate external search consultant.
part of the objective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve Making recommendations to the Board, including on the a balanced board.
A decision was taken not to set measurable re-appointment of non-executive directors, the re-election objectives and the Committee will continue to consider boardroom of directors at the AGM, and membership of the Audit and diversity in its succession planning discussions.
Performance evaluation The Committee also reviews the results of the Board performance The Committee completed a performance evaluation towards the evaluation that relate to the composition of the Board.
External end of 2013 and a report was presented to the Committee and legal or other independent professional advice can be obtained discussed.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was at the Companys expense, although this facility was not utilised concluded that it had fulfilled its remit in 2013 and had appropriate during the year.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre Ian Tyler corporate-governance.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 21 February 2014 64 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Nomination Committee report Our governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 65
