26 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Groups and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board meets formally section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in May on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the Groups 2010 the Code and updated by the FRC in September 2012 the objectives and policies.
The Board focuses mainly on strategy: New Code have been applied.
investment and financial performance: the Groups control environment: and executive management and Board succession.
To Statement of compliance enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date hereof, applied the briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings.
In principles and met the requirements of the Code and the New Code addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can without exception.
request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
Going concern The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to is reviewed annually and clearly sets out what authority is delegated affect its future development, performance and position are set out from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21.
The financial position of ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the the Board prior to implementation.
Examples of matters reserved for Strategic Report on pages 16 to 19.
In addition, note 35 to the the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval of: Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, the Group strategy: the annual budget: the composition and terms policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk of reference of any of the Board Committees: the high-level management objectives: details of its financial instruments and organisational structure: and the review of the effectiveness of the hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Groups system of internal control.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
long-term contracts with a number of clients across different The Board committees geographic areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the The Board has established a number of standing committees to Group have adequate resources to continue in operational facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the Financial Statements.
Board, published on the Companys website and are available on written request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of The Board reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority to The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, two take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, five of whom Companys expense.
the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
Charlie Porter, a former employee of the Group, does not meet the criteria of Statement of diversity policy independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
The Group recognises the value of a diverse workforce and aims to Whilst Mr Bedell-Pearce, the Companys Senior Independent attract and retain the best people from the widest pool of talent, Director, does not, by virtue of his tenure, strictly meet all of the experience and perspectives, drawn from all sections of society.
We independence tests set out in Code provision B.
1.1, the Board believe that differences in gender, background, perspective, consider that he continues to display all the characteristics expected expertise and culture are an asset to the Company.
of an independent Non-executive Director.
The Board believe that The diversity of the Board is intended to be improved when new Mr Bedell-Pearces independence is demonstrated through his appointments are made as a result of Director rotation.
As a result, actions and judgements during Board discussions and debates.
the Companys succession planning process has been revised to The biographies of the Directors appear on page 22.
These include the Companys commitment to improved diversity including demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing gender diversity.
sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, Details of the gender diversity of the Groups employees is set out performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to on page 24.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 27 A Statement of the Nomination Committee B Statement of the Audit & Compliance Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference Purpose and Terms of Reference The Committee scrutinises the processes and controls surrounding The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to the production of the Groups Financial Statements and oversees, the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of monitors and evaluates the effectiveness of the Companys internal Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible audit and compliance functions.
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent Membership appointment process exists.
The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Committee comprises solely Independent Non-executive Directors.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter.
The Committee The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should comprises the Chairman of the Company and three independent continue throughout 2014.
Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee Members of the Nomination Committee Keith Bedell-Pearce, Derham ONeill and Keith Percy.
Kieran Poynter, Keith Bedell-Pearce, Keith Jones and Keith Percy.
Activities and work of the Committee Activities and work of the Committee The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated During 2013, the Committee, with the assistance of external search by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings per consultants, led the process for the selection of an Independent annum.
Two meetings are held early in the year: one to deal with Non-executive Director and on 10 June 2013 the Board approved matters of governance for example, compliance with the Code, the the appointment of Ruth Sack.
Financial Services and Markets Act, monitoring and reviewing the Internal Audit and Compliance departments, and monitoring and As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the external audit process : and the other to consider the integrity of the number of Directors serving thereon.
year-end Financial Statements and any formal announcements On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions relating to the Companys and the Groups financial performance, of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard including any significant financial reporting judgements.
A similar process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, and a final meeting letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the takes place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters.
On requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of appointment can an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a be inspected during normal working hours at the Companys recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
The or removal of the external auditors and approves their remuneration Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Nonand terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability issues that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to the Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all each meeting held, the Committee receives a number of written and Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first oral reports from management and a number of other parties, notably opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at least every from the internal audit, compliance and finance functions and from the three years.
However, in line with the Code, all of the Directors are Groups external auditor.
subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
Two of the members of this Committee serve on the Risk Committee.
The overlap in membership between the committees For the Board ensures that a consistent approach is taken to risk assurance across the Group.
In discharging its duties in relation to assessing the overall control environment of the Group, the Committee considers and approves a number of Audit and Assurance Facility AAF Reports issued by the Kieran Poynter Company to clients and consultants.
These reports, reported on by Chairman, Nomination Committee KPMG, describe the key controls in place within the business relating to the investment management activities, client servicing, 9 April 2014 operations and IT infrastructure.
All 2013 AAF Reports issued by the Company received an unqualified audit opinion from KPMG.
28 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Audit & Compliance Committee has reviewed the content of this 2.
Share-based payments years Annual Report & Financial Statements and has advised the The Groups Remuneration arrangements comprise a mixture of Board that, in its view, the document is fair, balanced and cash payments and awards in F&C shares and funds managed by understandable and contains the information required for F&C.
The awards in shares and funds comprise a mix of deferred shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and restricted awards which vest over periods of between one and and strategy.
four years from the date of award.
The vesting of deferred awards is based only on future service: restricted awards vest based on a Significant accounting matters combination of future service and achievement of performance During the year the Committee focussed in particular on the targets, such as total shareholder return, growth in earnings per following key accounting matters and areas of judgement contained share, investment performance or the value of net new AUM gained within or impacting these Financial Statements: by the Group.
The Committee examined the vesting percentages adopted for each performance target and considered whether they 1.
Intangible assets were appropriate, in light of past experience and management There are two components of intangible assets: goodwill and forecasts.
Details of all share awards are set out in note 26 to the Consolidated Goodwill Financial Statements, including the assumed vesting levels of The carrying value of goodwill in the Consolidated Statement of restricted share awards.
Financial Position as at 31 December 2013 is 611.9 million.
This goodwill has arisen as a result of a number of business acquisitions 3.
F&C REIT put optionliability over previous years.
In accordance with IFRS, goodwill is not The non-controlling interest NCI partners in F&C REIT have, under amortised but is tested for impairment annually or, earlier if an certain circumstances, the right to require the Group to acquire their indicator of impairment is identified, using a value in use model.
The interests in F&C REIT, and a liability is included in the Groups Committee critically reviews the key assumptions associated with, Statement of Financial Position for the related obligation.
An external and inputs to, the value in use model.
These include factors such as valuation is performed each year to determine the fair value of the the discount rate, the initial revenue and costs, subsequent growth in F&C REIT business and hence the value of the put option liability.
revenue and costs and duration of cashflows.
The Committee also, in The Committee considers the independence and professional skills conjunction with Executive Management, monitors business of the external valuer each year and reviews and considers their developments for indicators of potential impairment.
At 31 December methodology and resultant valuation to ensure it is appropriately 2013 no impairment arose as the value in use was in excess of the reflected in the Financial Statements.
Details of the rights assigned to the NCI partners of F&C REIT are Investment management contracts set out in note 28.
Intangible assets in respect of management contracts are carried at 4.
Revenue recognition performance fees a net book value of 43.1m in the 31 December 2013 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The value of these contracts initially The Groups revenue principally comprises management fee income, generally calculated as a percentage of assets under management arose from historical mergers and acquisitions.
However, unlike goodwill, they are amortised over their estimated useful lives and are at periodic billing dates.
However, a small proportion of income is generated from performance fees, based on the absolute also subject to an impairment review if an indicator of impairment investment performance of a clients assets, or their relative arises.
The Committee reviews key business developments to identify whether any changes should be regarded as indicators of performance compared to a hurdle or benchmark, over a defined period.
Where the performance period is not coterminous with the impairment.
They also assess the remaining lives associated with investment management contracts for reasonableness and the Groups financial reporting period, the performance fees recognised must be estimated and such estimates are inherently subjective.
The inputs into the value in use model used to determine any impairment Committee has critically reviewed the assumptions adopted in loss.
One indicator of impairment arose during 2013, being the renegotiation of the contract with one of F&C REITs major clients calculating accrued but uncrystallised performance fees at the financial reporting date.
Total performance fees recognised in 2013 and subsequent reduction in associated revenues.
Following a full impairment review and a reassessment of the remaining lives of the are 11.6 million 2012: 9.5 million.
contracts, an impairment loss of some 1.4 million was recognised 5.
Recoverability of F&C REIT receivables on the F&C REIT intangible asset management contracts.
In As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a significant balance, of considering the nature of the revised contractual relationship with 13.3 million outstanding from one client, which was beyond its due that client, the Committee also supported managements date.
The Committee reviewed the expected payment schedule for assessment that the estimated useful life had been extended by this amount, together with the related agreements with the client.
approximately two years as a result of the renegotiation.
The Committee also considered the value of the collateral held by Details of the impairment reviews undertaken, both in respect of the Group in respect of this receivable, and subsequently goodwill and management contracts, and the value of intangible determined that no impairment provision was required at the assets are included in note 14 of the Consolidated Financial financial reporting date in respect of this balance.
Details of the collateral held are given on page 125.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 29 Audit tender C Statement of the Risk Committee The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced new Purpose and Terms of Reference recommendations setting out that audits should be subject to tender at least once every ten years.
The Committee was established in March 2012 to provide the Board with assurance that the processes and controls exist to facilitate KPMG has been the Groups auditor since 2006.
Details of how the reporting on the Groups risk management activities, including those Committee assesses the performance, effectiveness and related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control independence of the auditor are set out on page 32.
The Committee and adherence to policies and procedures.
The Committee is also has agreed to conduct an audit tender process during 2016 to responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board for coincide with mandatory rotation of the current lead audit partner.
approval, the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment For the Board Process ICAAP and for ensuring the Company fulfils its regulatory obligations under the Capital Requirements Directive.
Membership The Committee is chaired by Keith Percy.
The Committee comprises Keith Bedell-Pearce solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee Members of the Risk Committee 9 April 2014 Keith Percy, Keith Bedell-Pearce and Keith Jones.
Activities and work of the Committee The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings a year.
Quarterly meetings of the Committee are held to assess detailed risk reports and review any relevant updates to the Groups ICAAP report.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the process for the identification, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and management of all risks with particular emphasis on the key risks faced by the Group, and performs reviews of any special investigation reports relating to fraud or major breakdowns in internal controls or major errors and omissions.
For the Board Keith Percy Chairman, Risk Committee 9 April 2014 30 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors and Attendance at meetings the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the Boards The following table identifies the number of Board and formal effectiveness: and committee meetings held in 2013 and the attendance record of the individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of ad Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from hoc Directors meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Board all Directors.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the NonNon-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior executive Director Independent Director.
meetings without Audit & management Compliance Risk Remuneration Nomination Board present Committee Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive Number of The Chief Executive of the Company is Richard Wilson.
As Chief meetings held Executive, Richard is responsible for overseeing the implementation of 2013 2012 7 7 2 2 4 4 5 3 4 5 2 2 the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and Kieran Poynter 72 3 3 1 2 executive leadership to all the Groups business activities, and 1 Edward Bramson 52 1 ensuring the effective running of the business and the Group Keith Bedell-Pearce 7 2 4 1 4 2 Management.
2 Ian Brindle 22 Keith Jones 7 2 3 5 4 1 Non-executive Directors David Logan 7 Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Jones, ONeill, Percy, Porter and Ms Sack 2 Jeff Medlock 22 2 1 2 are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As Non-executive Derham ONeill 7 2 4 3 Directors they are responsible for: promoting entrepreneurial Keith Percy 7 2 1 5 2 1 leadership and the highest standards of governance within a 3 Charlie Porter 5 framework of prudent and effective controls: constructively 4 Ruth Sack 4 challenging and helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that Richard Wilson 7 the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic Changes to the membership of the Nomination, Audit & Compliance, Risk objectives: reviewing management performance: determining and Remuneration Committees took place in August 2013.
These changes appropriate levels of Executive Director remuneration Remuneration explain the attendance statistics of Messrs Poynter, Bedell-Pearce, Jones, Committee members : taking a prime role in appointing, and where ONeill and Percy.
necessary removing, Executive Directors: setting the Companys 1 Retired from the Board in August 2013. values and standards to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are 2 Retired from the Board in May 2013. understood and met: and reviewing communication with 3 Appointed to the Board in October 2013, attended Board meetings from shareholders.
4 Appointed to the Board in October 2013, attended Board meetings from Board evaluation and professional development June 2013.
A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board roles Board, its principal committees and all Directors was conducted in the first quarter of 2013.
Each Director was interviewed by the Chairman Executive Chairman to extract their views on the perceived The Chairman of the Company is Kieran Poynter.
As Chairman, operation and effectiveness of the Board and the Board Kieran is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring the Committees.
The results of this process were presented to the effective running and management of the Board.
The role profile of Board in March 2013.
All recommendations made as a result of this the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities: exercise were accepted by the Board and the Board has committed Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account to addressing all matters raised.
of the issues and concerns of each Board member and that The Board also set itself objectives early in 2013 and assessed its members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear performance against these objectives throughout the year.
information on the Company and related matters to enable them to monitor the Groups performance and take sound decisions: The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The of major investors: induction process and ongoing professional development is Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the formal induction and development process, including any ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 31 individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of Internal control ensuring professional development.
The Company Secretary also The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
develop familiarity with the Companys business operations.
Managements role is to implement and operate the Board policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal control is Directors conflicts of interest designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director The Company, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been Listing Rules, complied with the Code provisions on internal control authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the for the year ended 31 December 2013. other Directors.
The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to Board succession planning provide effective control within the Group and accord with the The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Boards Internal Control Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by a skills profile, FRC.
Such procedures have been in place throughout the year and projected and expected normal retirements, and the Companys up to 9 April 2014, the date of approval of the Annual Report and commitment to corporate governance best practice.
The plan is Financial Statements.
A high-level overview of the ongoing process approved annually by the Board.
for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with Relations with shareholders the FRCs Guidance.
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications Control environment are given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of The Group is committed to the highest standards of business shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual the business.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the understanding of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional standards of business conduct.
shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of the year-end and interim results: the Senior Independent Director The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order these meetings.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company to achieve its objectives.
The structure is designed to provide clear provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of Groups business.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee Management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the Chairmen.
The results of the votes cast at the Annual General systems of internal controls within the Groups business.
Meeting are posted on the Companys website.
Business risks At the time of the announcement of the proposed transaction with The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board BMO, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer met in conjunction with management and procedures to control these with a number of the Companys largest shareholders.
The feedback risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
from these meetings was circulated to the Board.
Unattributable feedback from a number of the Companys shareholders, facilitated Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business, by the Companys brokers, is also presented to the Board following covering all key locations.
These quarterly reports include issues of managements year-end and interim results presentations.
material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Group Management which includes both Executive Directors.
All significant Electronic communications items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Copies of the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, other The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating corporate publications, press releases and announcements are actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Strategic Report available on the Companys website.
Shareholders are encouraged on pages 11 and 12. to take advantage of the provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
32 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance The performance, independence, competence and cost of the Monitoring and corrective action auditor are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance The Company has a formal compliance function which, in addition Committee.
In conducting this review the Audit & Compliance to providing regulatory advice to the business, has undertaken Committee assess the quality of staff, the strength of lead partners compliance monitoring and performed a number of regulatory at key locations, the expertise, the resources and the quality of inspections in 2013.
A separate internal audit department written and oral presentations made by KPMG.
When the conducted regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services plan agreed annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Any will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board by those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
the internal audit, risk & compliance departments and through the The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the views of the regular reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are Audit & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and on independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the prevailing leading practice.
It is expected that in future this will take Audit & Compliance Committee.
place at least once in any ten-year period.
The Audit & Compliance Committee and the Risk Committee During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are reviews the effectiveness of the operation of the risk, compliance independent of KPMG, the external auditor, provided non-audit and internal audit departments at least twice each year.
related services to the Group.
Details of fees paid to these firms Independence of the auditor during 2013 are disclosed in note 5 c on page 76 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups auditor Future developments and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of its work was The Board believes that the controls in place during 2013 have been impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed independence and balancing that with the best interests of the to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the the award of non-audit work to the Groups auditor.
The policy requirements of the FCA and leading practice.
which applied during 2013 is detailed below.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups Statement Regarding Annual Report and auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to Financial Statements have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial manner that affords value for money while taking into account Statements, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and relevant ethical guidance.
The firm must not be in a position of understandable, providing the information necessary for conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests model and strategy.
By order of the Board, The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance Committee, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA it is appropriate for it to do so and there are no actual or perceived Secretary independence issues.
80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised to approve the use of the auditor for non-audit work provided that 9 April 2014 the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance Committee is required.
