Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate relevant to the Company, being an externally managed governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported framework for corporate governance which it believes is in respect of these provisions.
appropriate for an investment company.
This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES CODE THE BOARD The Board has considered the principles and recommendations The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code Companys a airs and for promoting the long-term success of by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for the Company.
All matters which are not delegated to the Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as Companys Managers under the Management and Secretarial explained in the AIC Guide, addresses governance issues Services Agreements are reserved for the Boards decision.
relevant to investment companies and enables boards to Matters reserved for the Board include, amongst other things, satisfy any requirements they may have under the UK Corporate decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share Governance Code the UK Code, as well as setting out issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk additional principles and recommendations on issues that are management, investment performance, share price discount, of speci c relevance to the Company.
The Board considers corporate governance, the appointment of the Company that reporting against the principles and recommendations of Secretary and Board appointments.
The Companys the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC guide which investment policy is detailed on page 1 6. incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide may be found The Board currently consists of six Directors, five of whom are on the AICs website at www.
co. uk independent of the Managers.
Other than as previously disclosed in relation to Andrew Wells, the Directors are The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders considered to be free from any relationship which could for good governance and considers that the Company has materially interfere with the exercise of their independent complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the judgement and all Directors are able to allocate su cient relevant provisions of the UK Code and associated disclosure time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully requirements of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: All Directors, with the exception of Andrew Wells, form the the role of the chief executive membership of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
All the Directors are members of the executive directors remuneration Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Investment Committee.
the need for an internal audit function The Board considers that it meets su ciently regularly to For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and as explained in discharge its duties e ectively and the table below gives the the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not attendance record for the meetings held during the year.
Nomination and Management Regular Remuneration Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 David Causer 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 2 2 4 4 1 1 1 Andrew Wells 4 4 1 1 n a n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the period.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals.
1 Appointed on 21 May 2012 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 24 Corporate Governance Statement SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR the investment operations and administration functions of The Board appointed Nicholas Bull as Senior Independent the Company, together with a summary of their duties and Director on 26 October 2010.
The Senior Independent Director responsibilities.
In addition, a new Director will receive an ful ls the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as induction, spending time with representatives of the Manager intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
whereby he or she will become familiar with the various The Senior Independent Director also chairs the Nomination and processes which the Managers consider necessary for the Remuneration Committee.
performance of his or her duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to BOARD COMPOSITION keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which The Board consists of Directors who, between them, have good are directly relevant to their involvement with the Company and knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of the Chairman reviews and agrees development and training investment companies.
The Directors believe that the Board has needs with each Director and the Senior Independent Director an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, will do likewise for the Chairman.
The Directors also receive knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge regular brie ngs from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys its duties and provide e ective strategic leadership and proper Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed governance of the Company.
developments or changes in law or regulations that a ect the Company and or the Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors including their relevant directorships are given on page 1 5 of this report.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION A formal annual process for the evaluation of the Board, its The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with Committees and its Directors is in place and undertaken at the only the interests of the shareholders in mind and independently Board meetings ahead of the Annual General Meetings.
The of any other associations.
It meets at least four times a year, with review of the performance of the Chairman is led by the Senior the Portfolio Manager in attendance, including an annual Independent Director on an annual basis.
meeting in China at which the Board has the opportunity to meet the investment team.
The performance and contribution to the Company of the Chairman and each Director holding o ce during the year to Between these meetings there is regular contact with the 31 March 2013 was considered using an external evaluation Managers.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
It has been concluded that in each case the Chairman Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue and Directors have been e ective and that they continue to matters referred to them from the Board and the Chairman is in demonstrate commitment to their roles.
contact with the other Directors regularly without representatives of the Managers being present.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION As a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index, the Directors of BOARD BALANCE the Company are subject to annual re-election by the The Board aims to ensure that the Board and its Committees shareholders, subject to recommendation to the Board by the have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and Nomination and Remuneration Committee the Committee knowledge of the Company.
The Nomination and Remuneration recommending to the Board that all Directors should seek Committee carries out its candidate search from the widest re-election for the forthcoming year.
As part of their possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria on the deliberations, the Committee conducts annual evaluations of basis of merit, with due regard for the bene ts of diversity on each Director.
The Committee has a policy of reviewing the tenure of each CHANGES TO THE BOARD Director on a three year cycle and has agreed that an All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors independent Director may serve for more than nine years, take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the so long as that Director is considered by the Committee, to Companys Articles of Association.
The Company complies with continue to be independent.
the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is The Committee considers that a Chairman will not be considered responsible for identifying possible candidates for consideration independent after nine years in that role but may remain a by the Board.
Whilst the Independent Directors take the lead in Director thereafter, s ubject to annual re-election.
the appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved by the entire Board.
The names of Directors submitted for re-election are External consultants may also be used to identify potential accompanied by su cient biographical details on page 1 5 to candidates.
enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms and letters of appointment of Directors are available for TRAINING inspection at the registered o ce of the Company and will be Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
information regarding the Company and receives training on Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 25 Corporate Governance Statement DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities in a number Levels of remuneration are competitive and su cient to attract of ways, including as set out below: and retain the quality of Directors needed to manage the Company successfully.
The Company Secretary provides Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim Financial information on comparative levels of Directors fees to the Board Statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the scope in advance of each review and this is also reviewed by an and results of the audit including the external Auditors report external evaluator.
The level of Directors fees is determined by on the annual Financial Statements: the Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the limit governed by the Articles of Association.
Directors fees are Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting disclosed fully in each Annual Report see the Directors policies: Remuneration Report on page 30.
Shareholdings in the Company by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share Reviewing and approving the audit fee: interests are disclosed in the Directors Report on page 2 0.
The Directors do not receive performance related remuneration.
Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement: THE COMPANY SECRETARY Considering the appointment, reappointment or removal of The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The the Auditor as appropriate: appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the advice Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of the and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to Companys Financial Statements: the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: Directors also have the ability to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Reviewing and monitoring the e ectiveness and cost of maintains Directors and O cers liability insurance.
the external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity, with particular regard to COMMITTEES the provision of non-audit services taking into consideration The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and governance responsibilities through four Committees: to consider the risks associated with audit rms withdrawing from the market: THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee consists of all the independent nonReviewing the overall services provided by the Companys executive Directors, namely David Causer, John Owen, Nicholas external Auditor and alternative audit services available: Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and Elisabeth Scott.
David Causer chairs this Committee as the Board believes it appropriate for Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Investment him to do so given his financial background and experience as Managers internal audit department: chairman of an audit committee.
The Committee considers that collectively its members have su cient recent and relevant Reviewing the Investment Managers report on risk and financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
internal controls and reporting to the Board: The Committees authority and duties are clearly fide ned in its Considering whether the Company needs an internal audit written terms of reference which are available on the Companys function given that the Company delegates its day-to-day pages of the Managers website: www.
operations to third parties: and The Audit Committee of the Board meets formally twice a year Reviewing the Companys custody arrangements.
and with the Auditor at least twice a year to review these and other appropriate matters.
A sub-committee of the Audit The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the Committee consisting of the Audit Committee Chairman and the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Senior Independent Director meet as and when necessary to Company, including the adherence to Section 1159 Corporation review matters of an ad hoc nature.
The Chairman of the Board is a member of the Committee as the THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Board believes that all the current independent Directors should The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consists of all be members of the Audit Committee.
the Directors, namely Nicholas Bull, John Owen, David Causer, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Andrew Wells.
Nicholas Bull, Senior Independent Director, acts as the Chairman of this Committee as it is considered that he has the requisite experience to do so.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 26 Corporate Governance Statement The Committee is charged with nominating new Directors for Commitment of the Managers to the investment company consideration by the Board of Directors, and subsequent business generally and to the Company in particular: approval by shareholders.
It believes that the best way of ensuring that the Board as a whole and each independent Investment management, portfolio management skills, Director individually carry out their duties in an independent experience and track record and other investment related manner, irrespective of the interests of the Investment considerations: Managers, is to ensure that the search for, the interview of and recommendation to the Board of a candidate is Managing and controlling the administration, the accounting entirely controlled by this Committee.
The Nomination and and the company secretarial function: Remuneration Committee also considers the election and re-election of Directors.
Shareholder relations shareholder information and relations, discount and premium management: The Committee also concerns itself with the remuneration of the Directors, considering the Directors roles and the responsibility Management agreements consideration of fees, notice and time involved in carrying these duties out e ectively.
It also periods and duties: and makes itself aware of the directors fees of other investment trust companies and other comparable entities.
Marketing commitment to and execution of activities designed to secure sustainable demand from potential This Committee meets on an annual basis and as and when long-term investors.
required and makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate.
With e ect from 1 April 2013, the annual management fee reduced from 1.5% of the Net Asset Value of the Company to The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection 1.2%.
at the Companys registered o ce and are included on the Companys pages of the website: www.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys pages of the website: www.
THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Engagement Committee consists of all the THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE independent non-executive Directors, namely John Owen, The Investment Committee consists of all the Directors and one Nicholas Bull, David Causer, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie and representative of the Unlisted Investment Manager, with the Elisabeth Scott.
John Owen, Chairman of the Company, also requisite investment experience, attends on an advisory basis.
The Committee is charged with reviewing Peter Pleydell-Bouverie chairs this Committee as the Board and monitoring the performance of the Investment Managers believes it appropriate for him to do so given his extensive and the Secretary in respect of their contracts and the fees they investment experience.
This Committee meets at least once a year and reports to the Board, making recommendations where appropriate.
The Committee considers that collectively the members of the Committee have su cient recent and relevant investment and The level of remuneration of the Investment Managers and financial experience to discharge its responsibilities fully.
The the Secretary is determined by the Management Engagement Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the Committee.
This remuneration relates to the investment on-going performance of the investments: discussing with the management function carried out by the Investment Managers, Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: on which a percentage of the funds under management is paid, reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and including a performance fee when appropriate, and to the reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
administrative function carried out by the Secretary.
The Board is mindful that the fees paid to the Investment Managers and to the The Committee meets when appropriate or as the Chairman of Secretary should be at a level to ensure that both the Investment the Committee shall require.
Managers and the administrators within the Secretariat who are engaged to look after the Companys a airs are appropriately FINANCIAL REPORTING skilled and that those individuals are fully focused on the Set out on page 23 i s a statement by the Directors of their Companys business.
responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting responsibilities within the Independent The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the Auditors Report on page 3 1.
The Board has a responsibility to performance of the Investment Managers and the Secretary present a balanced and clear assessment of annual and interim include those set out below: reports, interim management statements, other price sensitive public reports, as well as to provide information required to be Quality of team the skills and particular experience of the presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are teams involved in managing all aspects of the Companys reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue to business: ensure that this responsibility is ful lled.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 27 Corporate Governance Statement RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk procedure.
FIL has advised the Board that it is committed to management and internal control and for reviewing their providing the highest level of service to its customers and to e ectiveness.
The identi cation, control and evaluation of risk is applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and assessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees and provided by the Manager.
The systems of risk management and others working for FIL to assist the Company in tackling fraud, internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against endorsed accordingly.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, including the Managers, the management of the investment honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the bene ts this has portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding to reputation and business con dence.
of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day accounting and Company Secretarial requirements.
Each of The Board, the Investment Managers, the Investment Managers these contracts was entered into after full and proper employees and others acting on the Companys behalf, are consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when o ered including the control systems in operation in so far as conducting business.
they relate to the a airs of the Company.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken regular implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures risk and controls assessments.
The business risks have for preventing bribery, and the governance framework for been analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls training, communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation report which is regularly reviewed.
The Board has reviewed of compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided The Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
that the systems and procedures employed by the Managers, including their internal audit function and the work carried SHAREHOLDERS out by the Companys external Auditor, provide su cient The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are assurance that a sound system of internal control, which made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the safeguards shareholders investments and the Companys Senior Independent Director and other Directors are available assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, speci c to the to meet with major shareholders to discuss strategy and Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder pro le of the Company and liaises with the Managers and the The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and the e ectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board aims to the Company and meets the Managers Internal Audit provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the representative at least twice a year.
The Chairman of the Audit Company and shareholders.
It believes that the Companys Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal institutional shareholders have proper access to the Managers Audit and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year from the at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder Managers a report on their internal controls which includes a wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on procedures in operation around the investment management pages 14 an d 6 5. and administration processes.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance Meeting at which there will be a presentation of the years with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors, results and an opportunity to meet the Portfolio Manager, the Directors have established an ongoing process for representatives of the Managers and the Board.
identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the e ectiveness of the risk Except where a poll is called, all resolutions at the Annual management and internal control systems throughout the year General Meeting are dealt with on a show of hands.
This process continued to be in place up voting results are counted, are available to the Meeting and are to the date of the approval of these Financial Statements and is disclosed in the Companys page of the Managers website expected to remain in place for the coming year.
WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE The Notice of Meeting on pages 5 5 and 56 sets out the business Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is service pursuant to the Management Agreements includes the proposed on each substantially separate issue including the ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman of the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 28 Corporate Governance Statement Board and the other members of the Board, will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out in the Directors Report on pages 17 to 2 2 because it is information which refers to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The following is a list of that information: Directors shareholdings Directors and O cers liability insurance Going concern Share capital Share issues Share repurchases Substantial share interests On behalf of the Board John Owen Chairman 17 June 2013 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 29
