GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee I am pleased The provision of non-audit services which is subject to prior to present the first formal report of the Committee to shareholders Board approval.
No work other than audit was carried out by on the role and responsibilities and the effectiveness of the the Companys Auditor during the year: external audit process and how this has been assessed for the Responsibility for making recommendations on the year ended 31 December 2013. appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Auditor: COMPOSITION Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers The Committee is chaired by me and consists of all of the internal audit department: reviewing the Companys independent Directors.
Mr van der Klugt is a member of the procedures for detecting fraud: and reviewing the Committee because the Board believes it to be appropriate effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, forall independent Directors to have such responsibility.
operational and compliance controls and risk management : TheCommittee considers that collectively its members have Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge Company and reviewing the half-yearly and annual financial their responsibilities fully.
statements of the Company prior to their submission to the Board for approval to ensure they are fair, balanced and ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES understandable: The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its Reviewing corporate governance issues, the existence and terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages performance of all controls operating in the Company of the Managers website www.
These duties including the adherence to Sections 1158 and 1159 include: Corporation Tax Act 2010 status : and Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third Discussing with the external Auditor the nature and scope of party service providers such as the registrars and custodians the audit and reviewing the external Auditors quality control and the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from the procedures, reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the market which is considered in the Committees risk evaluation audit process and the external Auditors independence and and planning.
objectivity with particular regard to the provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and by seeking appropriate disclosures and comfort from the Auditor: MEETINGS AND BUSINESS The Committee, which consists of all the independent Directors, met three times during the reporting year and once with the external Auditor.
Attendance by each independent Director is shown in the table on page 25.
The following matters were dealt with at these meetings: February 2013 Review of the risk associated with cybercrime Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of performance fee calculations Review of withholding tax reclaims Recommendation of the final dividend payment Review of the Going Concern statement Review of compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements Consideration of the Auditors report Review of the Auditors performance and independence Review of the Annual Report and financial statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board July 2013 Review of the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on managing Conflicts of Interest Review of the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Inspection report Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the half-yearly report and recommendation of its approval to the Board October 2013 Review of the Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 December 2013 Review of the Companys risk management and internal controls framework Review of the Companys claims to recover withholding tax paid in certain EU countries Review of the Companys UK tax claims Review of the Committees Terms of Reference Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 29 GOVERNANCE Report of the Audit Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Annual Report and financial statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page35.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and financial statements and any issues which may arise and on any specific areas which require judgement.
In respect of these financial statements, the Committee considered certain significant issues and how they were addressed.
Recognition The recognition of investment income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy Note 1 b on of Investment Income page 43.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that adequate systems are in place for properly recording all of the Companys investment income and that this area was appropriately tested by the Companys Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 1 g and ownership and 1 h on pages 43 and 44.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that the Companys Auditor has of investments verified the valuation of investments and derivatives by reference to independent sources and has also including derivatives confirmed the existence and ownership of the investmentswith the Companys independent Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys Counterparties.
Compliance with Approval for the Company to carry on business as an investment trust has been obtained, subject to Sections 1158 and theCompany continuing to meet eligibility criteria.
The ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria 1159 of the Corporation ismonitored on a regular basis with the help and guidance of the Companys service providers Tax Act 2010 oradvisers.
Performance fee The audit includes a review of the Companys performance fee to ensure that this is calculated in calculation accordance with the Management Agreement.
The Manager reports to the Board on any performance fee accruals that have been included in the Companys NAV on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee seeks confirmation that the Companys performance fee has been calculated as per the management agreement and confirmed with the Companys Auditor.
Principal Risks and The Audit Committee reviews the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and evaluates Uncertainties them according to the likelihood of the risk occurring and the impact the risk may have on the Company.
Further details can be found on pages 10 and 11.
APPOINTMENT OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the Grant Thornton UK LLP acts as the Companys Auditor.
Committee reviewed: TheCommittee reviewed the independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending the fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: their reappointment to the Board and prior to the Boards the audit report issued by the Auditor on the audit of the proposal to reappoint Grant Thornton at the forthcoming Annual Annual Report and financial statements for the year ending General Meeting.
31December 2013: and feedback from the Manager.
With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The last review of alternative audit service providers took placein 2006 resulting in a change of audit firm.
The Auditors the personnel in the audit plan for the year: continued appointment is reviewed each year.
The Companys the Auditors arrangements for any conflicts of interest: audit partner cannot act for more than 5 years.
Julian Bartlett the extent of any non-audit services: and became the Companys audit partner for the year ended the statement by the Auditor that they remain independent 31December 2011.
Thereare no contractual obligations that within the meaning of the regulations and their professional restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
James Robinson Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 March 2014 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 30
