GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement management, investment performance, share price discount, The Company is committed to high standards of corporate corporate governance, Board appointments and the appointment governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
The Companys framework for corporate governance which it believes is investment policy is detailed on page 8. appropriate for an investment trust company.
This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, four AIC CODE of whom are independent of the Companys Manager and are The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has considered the considered to be free from any business or other relationship principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate which could materially interfere with the exercise of their Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate independent judgement.
Marion Sears was appointed as a Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
non-executive Director on 17 January 2013 and Simon Duckworth TheAIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses stepped down from the Board on 16 May 2013.
The Board governance issues relevant to investment companies and follows a procedure of notification of other interests that may enables boards to satisfy any requirements they may have arise as part of considering any potential conflicts.
James underthe UK Code of Corporate Governance UK Code, as Robinson, the Senior Independent Director, fulfils the role as a well as setting out additional principles and recommendations sounding board for the Chairman and as intermediary for the on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
other non-executive Directors where necessary.
TheBoard considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the Simon Fraser is a Director of another investment trust managed AICGuide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better by Fidelity, namely Fidelity Japanese Values PLC and is therefore information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide not independent.
The Board believes it to be an important aspect may be found at www.
co. uk of the corporate governance of an investment trust company that there should be links with the Manager to ensure that the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the Manager is party to the responsibility, authority and AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code and accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
The Directors are associated disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their asset out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: responsibilities fully and effectively.
the role of the chief executive: In common with most investment trusts there is no chief executive executive directors remuneration: and as the management function has been delegated as set out the need for an internal audit function.
above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
Theindependent Directors form the membership of the Audit For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
theUK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the position of Fidelity European Values PLC, being BOARD BALANCE anexternally managed investment company.
The Company has The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge its duties and provide The Company has no separate Nomination & Remuneration effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Committee, and in this respect it does not comply with the UK Company.
In particular the Directors have a wide knowledge Code principle B.
2.1 and D. 2.1 and the equivalent AIC Code and experience of fund management, investment trust principle.
The reasons for non-compliance are detailed on management and business in Europe.
Biographical details page 26. ofallthe Directors are given on page 18.
The Directors support the recommendations of Lord Davies of THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Abersoch in his report, Women on Boards, published in 2011.
THE BOARD The Board has specifically considered the issues detailed therein The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the and its policy is as follows: Companysaffairs and for promoting the long term success of the Company.
It delegates through the Management Agreement The Board aims to have a balance of skills, expertise, length of and through specific instructions the day to day management service and knowledge of the Company represented on the ofthe Company to the Manager, FIL Investments International.
The Board carries out its candidate searches with full The Company has no executives or employees.
All matters regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, drawing notdelegated to the Manager are reserved for the Boards from the widest possible pool of talent against a set of objective decision.
Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, criteria, and makes its appointments on the basis of merit.
decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 24 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Duckworth, DL resigned 16 May 2013 3 3 1 1 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 Marion Sears appointed 17 January 2013 5 5 3 3 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals BOARD MEETINGS Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and between enabling the Board to probe further on matters of concern or these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
Other seek clarification on certain issues.
meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred The Board has delegated certain of its corporate governance from the Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other responsibilities to the Audit and Management Engagement Directors regularly without representatives of the Manager being Committees, each composed of all the independent Directors.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind and CHANGES TO THE BOARD quite independently of any other associations.
It endeavours to All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors provide leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
take place in accordance with the Companies Act, the Companys Articles of Association and the AIC Code.
Whilst the The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of new discharge its duties effectively and the table above gives the Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be discussed and attendance record for the formal meetings held in the reporting approved by the whole Board.
As a consequence, there is no year to 31 December 2013.
External consultants are used to identify potential candidates.
COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment The Board carries out its candidate search against a set of of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the The Directors have access to the advice and services of the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are Marion Sears was appointed as a new director of the Company followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied on 17 January 2013 via Trust Associates, an external agency with with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to take no connection to the Company.
Simon Duckworth resigned as a independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, director of the Company on 16 May 2013. inthe furtherance of their duties.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are SUPPLY OF INFORMATION TO DIRECTORS available for inspection at the registered office of the Company The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a culture of and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors receive General Meeting.
accurate, timely and clear information and for ensuring that there is adequate time available for the discussion of agenda items, TRAINING particularly strategic issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company The Board receives in due time information in a form and of a and his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board a new Director will receive an induction, spending time with meeting papers are the key source of regular information for the representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will become Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board and familiar with the various processes which the Manager considers contain sufficient information on the financial condition of the necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities Company.
During the year Marion Sears participated in an induction program.
During Ms Sears induction program she met with various representatives of the Manager and the Board.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 25 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up with the Company or the Manager.
Stevenson and Co. carried todate and attend training courses on matters which are out their evaluation for the year to 31 December 2012.
The next directlyrelevant to their involvement with the Company and the externally facilitated appraisal will be carried out for the year to Chairman reviews and agrees development and training needs 31 December 2015. with each Director.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board the AIC, the independent and external Auditor and the Company and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has not been Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in appointed.
Full details of the Companys Remuneration Policy law or regulations that could affect the Company and or the and Directors fees are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Directors.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION BOARD COMMITTEES As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors The Board has established the Audit Committee and stand for election by the shareholders at the Annual General Management Engagement Committee as set out below.
Terms of Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance reference of each Committee may be found on the Companys with the AIC Code all Directors are subject to annual re-election pages of the Managers website www.
due to the Companys status as a FTSE 350 company.
Biographical details can be found on page 18.
A procedure has been put in AUDIT COMMITTEE place whereby formal letters of appointment, which specify the The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent Directors terms of appointment, are issued to new Directors on appointment and is chaired by Mr Robinson.
Full details of the Companys and to existing Directors following re-election at the Annual Audit Committee have been disclosed in the Report of the Audit General Meeting.
The Board will consider the length of tenure Committee on pages 29 and 30. asone of the matters under review during Director evaluations.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Management Engagement Committee consists of all of A formal and rigorous process for the evaluation of the Board, theindependent Directors and is chaired by Mr van der Klugt.
itsCommittees and its Directors has been put in place and takes The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the place regularly.
The process includes regular discussion and performance of the Manager and ensuring that the terms of regular written questionnaires, although the format may change theCompanys Management Agreement are competitive and from time to time to ensure that the Board does not become reasonable for shareholders.
This Committee meets at least complacent in fulfilling a box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, annually and reports to the Board of Directors, making interviews are held.
The performance and contribution to the Company of the The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by the Chairman and each Director holding office during the year to Management Engagement Committee: it relates to the investment 31December 2013 was considered using written questionnaires management function, on which a percentage of the funds under and interviews with the Chairman.
It has been concluded that in management is paid.
The management fee was renegotiated each case the Directors have been effective and that they toinclude a performance related element with effect from continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
This was further renegotiated with effect from candidature of the Directors seeking re-election has been 1January 2012. endorsed by the Board as a whole and recommends their re-election to shareholders.
The performance of the Chairman is The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the evaluated by the Board in the Chairmans absence on an annual performance of the Manager are set out below: basis.
TheCompany Secretary and Portfolio Manager also participate in parts of these processes to provide all-round Quality of team the skills and particularly the experience of feedback to the Board.
The results of these evaluations are the team involved in managing all aspects of the Companys discussed by the Board and the process is considered to be business: constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust business functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken on generally and to the Company in particular: the basis of the results.
Managing the Company in running and controlling the administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the The Board undertakes annual evaluations of itself and its Company: Committees.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Investment management portfolio management skills, Governance Code, as a FTSE 350 company, the Company is experience and track record and other investment related required to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the considerations including gearing, currencies, hedging, Board every third year.
The last external agency to carry out an buybacks etc: evaluation of the Board, its Committees and each of its Directors was Stevenson and Co. an external agency with no connection Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 26 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement Shareholders shareholder consciousness and relations, which is regularly reviewed.
The Board has reviewed the need discount management and commitment to the Companys for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the goals: and systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice itsinternal audit function and the work carried out by the periods and duties.
Companys external Auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders The Committee met on 15 January 2014 and reviewed the investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered 2013.
The Committee noted the Companys good long term unnecessary.
performance record and the commitment, quality and experience of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report on The Committee concluded that it was in the interests of the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on behalf shareholders that the appointment of the Manager should of the Company and meets a representative of the Managers continue.
Details of the Management Agreement appear on internal audit team at least three times a year.
The Chairman of page 19. the Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers internal audit team and vice versa.
The Board also receives each year ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT from the Manager a report on its internal controls which includes FINANCIAL REPORTING a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the Set out on page 35 is a statement by the Directors of their control procedures in operation around the investment responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the annual management and administration processes.
The Auditor has set out its reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance Reporton pages 37 and38.
with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors, the Directors have established an The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price significant risks faced by the Company and have reviewed sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as theeffectiveness of the risk management and internal control toprovide information required to be presented by statutory systems throughout the year ended 31 December 2013.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by process continued to be in place up to the date of the approval the Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility of these financial statements and is expected to remain in place isfulfilled.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good management and internal control and for reviewing their service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes effectiveness.
The identification, control and evaluation of risk theability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through isassessed quarterly and a regular internal controls report is aworkplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing provided by the Manager.
The systems of risk management and procedure.
Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against to encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist material mis-statement or loss.
the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, conduct.
This policy is endorsed accordingly by the Board.
including the Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding BRIBERY ACT 2010 of the assets, the registration services and the day-to-day The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment bythe Board of the quality and cost of services offered including Manager, the Investment Managers employees and others the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate affairs of the Company.
high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken a regular The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation risk and controls assessment.
The business risks have been and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery.
analysed and recorded in a risk and internal controls report The Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 27 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement RESPONSIBILITY AS INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 59 to 62 The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership setsout the business of the meeting and the resolutions dealing in relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit with special business are explained more fully in the Directors ofan active investment policy through portfolio management Report on pages 21 to 23.
A separate resolution is proposed on decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and each substantially separate issue including the annual report maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer expressly declares that it supports the Financial Reporting questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Councils Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to institutional shareholders and agents.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION voting may be found at www.
co. uk At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a special resolution shall be proposed to alter the Companys Articles of Association.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Further details of the proposal can be found on page 23.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the On behalf of the Board Senior Independent Director and other Directors have meetings with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
Theshareholder profile of the Company is regularly monitored and the Board liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company is committed to providing the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that institutional shareholders have Humphrey van der Klugt proper access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if Chairman they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of 10 March 2014 the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are provided on page 66.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is a presentation by the Portfolio Manager of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of the Manager.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxyvotes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 28
