The IAB is chaired by BPs previous chairman, Peter Sutherland.
Its Board activity membership in 2013 included Ko Annan, Lord Patten of Barnes, Josh The boards activities are structured to enable the directors to full their Bolten, President Romano Prodi, Dr Ernesto Zedillo and Dr Javier Solana.
role, in particular with respect to strategy, monitoring, assurance and The chairman and chief executive attend meetings of the IAB.
The diagram below shows the main areas of focus by the discussed during the year included events in the Middle East, the US board during 2013. budget deficit and BPs activities in Azerbaijan and North Africa.
Board activities t $PNQFUJUPS PVUMPPL t 4USBUFHZ BXBZ EBZ Board effectiveness t 4USBUFHZ QSJODJQMFT t 0SHBOJ[BUJPOBM DBQBCJMJUZ Strategy t &YQMPSBUJPO Induction and board learning On joining BP, non-executive directors are given a tailored induction programme.
This includes one-to-one meetings with management, the t #VTJOFTT SFWJFX t $IJFG FYFDVUJWF T SFQPSU external auditors and site visits to operations.
The induction also covers t $BQJUBM JOWFTUNFOU SFWJFX t #1 T BDUJWJUJFT JO OEJB governance, duties of directors and the board committees that a director Performance t 1SPKFDUT GSBNFXPSL will join.
To help develop an understanding of BPs business, the board continues its learning through briengs and site visits.
In 2013, the board received t SPVQ SJTL QSPDFTT t 3FQVUBUJPO NBOBHFNFOU briengs on BPs code of conduct, the groups values and key business t MPCBM FDPOPNJD DMJNBUF t %FMJWFSZ PG UIF Risk developments including legal updates, the economic outlook and the t 3VTTJB 10-point plan.
At its board meetings in Houston and India, the board met local management.
"t SPVQ mOBODJBM PVUMPPL t ""OOVBM 3FQPSU BOE Non-executive directors are expected to attend at least one site visit per Finance and t 2VBSUFSMZ BOE GVMM ZFBS Form 20-F. year."
During 2013, the board made a number of visits, including to planning results.
t QMBO Canadian oil sands operations, India and the Gelsenkirchen renery in t 4IBSFIPMEFS EJTUSJCVUJPOT Germany.
Members of the SEEAC made site visits to BPs operations in Alaska and Tangguh.
The chairman and Iain Conn, chief executive of BPs t &NQMPZFF GFFECBDL t OWFTUPS BVEJU Downstream segment, visited the Whiting Renery in the US.
t 0UIFS JOWFTUPS GFFECBDL Reputation site visit, the board or appropriate committee is briefed on the impressions t #1 CSBOE BOE HMPCBM gained by the directors attending the visit.
Board visit to India t #PBSE FWBMVBUJPO t 7JTJUT UP $BOBEJBO PJM Board t $PEF PG DPOEVDU BOE sands, India and development BP values.
"Gelsenkirchen renery In 2013, the BP board met for the first time in India to gain an t ""."
understanding of the opportunities and challenges in the country.
In 2011, BP acquired a 30% stake in 21 oil and gas production-sharing contracts operated by Reliance Industries in India: the deal represents Risk and assurance one of the largest ever foreign direct investments into the country.
During the year the board through its committees, regularly reviewed the The board visited the Kakinada onshore terminal and discussed the processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated and managed.
The complexities of geology off the east coast of India with representatives effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and risk from Reliance.
During the visit, the board also met with government management were also assessed see Internal Control Revised Guidance dignitaries and business partners.
for Directors Turnbull on page 110.
In meeting the Honourable President of India, Pranab Mukherjee, BP The annual plan and the group strategy are central to BPs risk chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg afrmed, We are working closely with management programme.
They provide a framework in which the board the government of India in its quest for energy security.
I am confident can consider significant risks, manage the groups overall risk exposure and that, working together with our partners Reliance Industries, our underpin the delegation and assurance model for the board in its oversight combined capabilities, experience and expertise in deep water will of executive management and other activities.
The board and its support the efficient and cost-effective development of Indias energy committees principally audit, SEEAC and Gulf of Mexico committees resources.
monitored the group risks which had been allocated following the boards review of the annual plan at the end of 2012.
Those group risks reviewed during 2013 included risks associated with the global economic climate, the delivery of BPs 10-point plan, the groups exposure to Russia and reputation management.
The board considered at the half year whether any changes were required to the allocation of group risks and confirmed the schedule for oversight of these risks.
The group risks allocated for review by the board in 2014 include delivery of BPs 10-point plan and geopolitical risk associated with BPs operations around the world.
The boards monitoring committees audit, safety, ethics and environment assurance and Gulf of Mexico committees were also allocated a number of group risks for review over the year: these are outlined in the reports of the committees on page 74.
Further information on BPs system of risk management is outlined in Our management of risk on page 49. International advisory board BPs international advisory board IAB advises the chairman, group chief executive and the board on geopolitical and strategic issues relating to the company.
This group has an advisory role and meets twice a year although its members are on hand to provide advice and counsel when needed.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
