Corporate governance Appointment and time commitment How the board works The chairman and NEDs have letters of appointment: there is no term limit on a directors service as BP proposes all directors for annual re-election by Board governance in BP shareholders a practice followed since 2004.
While the chairmans The system of governance within which the BP board operates is set out in appointment letter sets out the time commitment expected of him, the the BP board governance principles.
These define the role of the board, its letters of appointment for NEDs do not set a xed time commitment as it processes and its relationship with executive management.
This system is is anticipated that the time required of directors may uctuate depending reected in the governance of the groups subsidiaries.
The board on demands of BP business and other events.
It is expected that directors governance principles can be found at bp.
will allocate sufficient time to the company to perform their duties Role of the board effectively.
The board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business Executive directors are permitted to take up one external board and the directors have duties under both UK company law and BPs articles appointment, subject to the agreement of the chairman.
Fees received for of association.
an external appointment may be retained by the executive director and are reported in the annual report on remuneration see page 106.
The primary tasks of the board include: Independence and conicts of interest Active consideration and direction of long-term strategy, and NEDs are expected to be independent in character and judgement and free approval of the annual plan.
from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere Monitoring of BPs performance against the strategy and plan.
with the exercise of that judgement.
Antony Burgmans joined the board in February 2004 and by the time of the Obtaining assurance that the material risks to BP are identied and 2014 AGM will have served ten years as a director.
In 2012, the board that systems of risk management and control are in place to asked him to remain as a director until the 2016 AGM as it considered that mitigate such risk.
his experience as the longest serving board member provides valuable Board and executive management succession.
The board has determined that he continues to meet the boards criteria for independence and will keep this Specic tasks are delegated to the board committees see the reports of under review.
The board seeks to set the tone from the top for BP by working with management to agree the values of the The board is satisfied that there is no compromise to the independence of, company and considering specic issues, including health, safety, the and nothing to give rise to conicts of interest for those directors who environment and reputation.
serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in outside entities.
The nomination committee keeps Board composition under review the other interests of the NEDs to ensure that the On 31 December 2013 the board had 14 directors the chairman, three effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
executive directors and 10 independent, non-executive directors NEDs.
Succession The nomination committee keeps the balance and independence of the Dr Byron Grote, an executive director, retired from the board at the AGM in board under review see the report of the nomination committee on 2013.
There were no other changes to the board or committee page 79. membership during the year.
Key roles and responsibilities The chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg t Provides leadership of the board.
t Acts as main point of contact between the board and management.
t Speaks on board matters to shareholders and other parties.
t Ensures that systems are in place to provide directors with accurate, timely and clear information to enable the board to operate effectively.
t Is responsible for the integrity and effectiveness of the BP boards system of governance.
The group chief executive Bob Dudley t Is responsible for day-to-day management of the group.
t Chairs the executive team ET, the membership of which is set out on page 66.
The senior independent director Andrew Shilston t Is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be addressed through normal channels.
Antony Burgmans, BPs longest serving non-executive director, acts as an internal sounding board for the chairman and serves as intermediary for the other directors with the chairman when necessary.
Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director is employed as an executive of the group.
The nomination committee keeps succession plans for the chairman, senior independent director, group chief executive and senior management under review.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 71
