Corporate governance Board evaluation AGM Each year BP undertakes a review of the board, its committees and The voting levels for the 2013 AGM saw an increase over the previous year individual directors.
The chairmans own performance is evaluated by the to 64.2% versus 63.2% in 2012.
A webcast, speeches and presentations chairmans committee led by Antony Burgmans.
from the AGM are available on the BP website after the meeting, together with the outcome of voting on each resolution.
Each year the board In 2013 the nomination committee undertook a review of board skills, activities receives a report after the AGM giving a breakdown of the vote and and time commitment with a view to informing the succession prole of future investor feedback on their voting decisions for the meeting, informing the board appointments.
This was undertaken to ensure that the board was well board on any issues arising.
positioned to challenge and develop BPs strategy.
This review included a discussion on how the board should approach its work in future.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Given this review of board skills and the use of external facilitation in prior BP complied throughout 2013 with the provisions of the UK Corporate years, an internally designed board evaluation has been carried out for 2013 Governance Code, except in the following aspects: using an external facilitator Lintstock, which tested key areas of the B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out xed-time commitments boards work, including strategy, assurance, risk and governance since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to processes.
The output of the review were discussed at the board and change according to the demands of business and other events.
All individually at each committee in January 2014. directors are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the Key conclusions from the evaluation work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the The evaluation concluded that progress had been made in improving the nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual rhythm of board meetings and the timeliness of board paper distribution re-election.
through the introduction of an online portal.
D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration Good progress had been made during the year on the development of committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the strategy and the governance around capital projects.
Further work in both remuneration committee which makes a recommendation to the these areas was agreed for 2014.
In addition, greater focus on technology board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by and capability would be included as part of the boards considerations on shareholders.
This wider process enables all board members to strategy.
The board also expressed a desire to look outwards when discuss and approve the chairmans remuneration rather than solely considering the rapidly evolving global energy market.
the members of the remuneration committee.
Follow up from our previous evaluation E. 2.4 Printed copies of the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 After the 2012 evaluation, the board revised its agenda to increase the completed mailing outside of the Governance Code period of 20 focus on strategic issues and introduced the regular use of forward agenda working days before the AGM but within the UK Companies Act planning to enable this to be realized.
The board also asked for greater notice period.
This was due to printing being delayed following interaction with the international advisory board, and a joint meeting has developments in the companys legal proceedings in the US.
The number of board meetings reduced from 19 in 2012 to 11 in 2013, enabling the board to move back to a more steady state of operation.
Shareholder engagement The company operates an active investor relations programme and the board receives feedback on shareholder views through results of an anonymous investor audit and reports from management and directors who interacted with shareholders over the year.
Institutional investors Executive directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional investors through roadshows, group and one-to-one meetings and events for socially responsible investors.
During the year the chairman, senior independent director and chairs of the SEEAC and remuneration committee held investor meetings to discuss strategy, the boards view on the companys performance, governance and remuneration.
An annual investor event was held in March 2013 with the chairman and chairs of the board committees.
This meeting enables BPs largest shareholders to hear about the work of the board and its committees, and for non-executive directors to engage with investors.
Materials from investor presentations, including our financial results and information on the work of the board and its committees can be downloaded at bp.
Private investors Following a successful meeting in 2012, BP repeated an event for private investors in conjunction with the UK Shareholders Association UKSA.
A group of 50 private shareholders listened to presentations from the chairman and head of investor relations on BPs annual results, strategy and the work of the board.
The event gave shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on BPs activities and for the company to receive direct private shareholder feedback.
As part of the further development of BPs retail shareholder strategy, we commenced a lost shareholder programme in 2013 to trace and confirm shareholders contact details in order to successfully reunite them with their unclaimed dividends.
Funds returned to shareholders as at 31 January 2014 amounted to 1,512,882.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 73
