SEEAC focus in 2013 t $& PQFSBUJPOT SJTL SFQPSUT t &YUFSOBM BVEJUPS BTTVSBODF PG t 2VBSUFSMZ SFQPSUT PO 4& QFSGPSNBODF BOE PQFSBUJPOBM sustainability reporting.
t SPVQ BVEJU BTTVSBODF PG TZTUFN PG t 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ SFQPSUJOH BOOVBM PWFSWJFX internal control.
"t 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF t 4 03 BVEJU BTTVSBODF BT QBSU PG HSPVQ t 'JFME USJQT MFE CZ 4&&""$ SFDFOU WJTJUT JODMVEF audit."
Monitoring of Canada oil sands, Tangguh LNG, Alaska North External and operations and Slope and Gelsenkirchen renery.
internal audit reporting System of internal t 3FWJFX PG FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG #1 T TZTUFN PG t &YQMPTJPO PS SFMFBTF BU GBDJMJUJFT control and risk Risk reviews internal control and risk management.
"management t 2VBSUFSMZ HSPVQ BVEJU SFQPSUT t 8FMM JODJEFOU t 2VBSUFSMZ TJHOJmDBOU BMMFHBUJPOT BOE JOWFTUJHBUJPOT SFQPSUT t 1JQFMJOF JODJEFOU t 2VBSUFSMZ FUIJDT BOE DPNQMJBODF SFQPSUT t. BSJOF JODJEFOU t ""OOVBM FUIJDT DFSUJmDBUJPO Undertaken jointly with the audit committee."
Process safety expert Downstream Gulf of Mexico committee Mr Duane Wilson continued to report to the committee in his role as process safety expert for the Downstream segment.
In this role he continues to work with segment management on a worldwide basis having previously focused on US reneries to monitor and advise on the process safety culture and learnings across the segment.
He twice reported directly to the SEEAC in 2013 and presented detailed reports on his work including reporting on a number of visits he has made to reneries and other downstream facilities.
Reports from group audit and group ethics & compliance The committee received quarterly reports from both of these functions.
These included summaries of investigations into significant alleged fraud or misconduct.
In addition, both the general auditor and the group ethics and compliance officer met in private with the chairman and other members of the committee.
Field trips In April the chairman and all other members of the committee visited Alberta, Canada to examine the oil sands being developed there by the Introduction from committee chairman group and third parties.
In October a committee member visited operations The Gulf of Mexico committee continues to oversee the groups response at the Tangguh LNG facility in West Papua in Indonesia while another to the Deepwater Horizon accident, ensuring that the company fulls all of committee member travelled to Alaska and visited operations on the North its legitimate obligations whilst protecting and defending the interests of Slope.
In addition, three members of the committee visited the the group.
In the past year, the focus has been on the review of ongoing Gelsenkirchen renery in Germany.
In all cases, the visiting committee proceedings in multi-district litigation 2179 and 2185: of the assessment of members received briengs on operations and the status of local operating natural resource damages: and of a number of other legal proceedings in management system OMS implementation and risk management and relation to the Deepwater Horizon accident.
For each visit, committee members then reported back in detail to the committee and subsequently to the full board.
I believe the committee has been thorough in the execution of its duties.
The high frequency of meetings and long tenure of committee Committee review membership has enabled members to review an evolving and complex For its 2013 evaluation, the SEEAC used a questionnaire administered by spectrum of issues.
external consultants to examine the committees performance and Ian Davis effectiveness.
The committee responded to the same questions used in Committee chair 2012 so that any change trends could be discerned.
The topics covered included the balance of skills and experience among its membership, the Role of the committee quality and timeliness of the information the committee receives, the level of challenge between committee members and management and how The Gulf of Mexico committee was formed in July 2010 to oversee the well the committee communicates its activities and findings to the board.
management and mitigation of legal and licence-to-operate risks arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill.
The committees work is The evaluation results were generally positive.
Committee members integrated with that of the board, which retains ultimate accountability for considered that the committee possessed the right mix of skills and oversight of the groups response to the accident.
background, had an appropriate level of support and had received open and transparent briengs from management.
The committee considered that the eld trips made by its members had become an important element in the work of the committee, in particular through such trips giving committee members the ability to examine how risk management is being embedded in businesses and facilities.
78 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
