Subject to determining any additional appropriate actions arising from Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors items still in process, the board is satisfied that, where significant failings Turnbull or weaknesses in internal controls were identied during the year, In discharging its responsibility for the companys risk management and appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
internal control systems under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board, through its governance principles, requires the group chief executive Corporate governance practices to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and internal audit to In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
The governance The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices principles are reviewed periodically by the board and are consistent with as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code including principle companies are listed as follows: C. 2 risk management and internal control.
The board has an established process by which the effectiveness of the Independence system of internal control which includes the risk management system is BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which reect reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based approach to Code.
This process enables the board and its committees to consider the corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes system of internal control being operated for managing significant risks, determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
including strategic, safety and operational and compliance and control risks, throughout the year.
Material joint ventures and associates have not BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors been dealt with as part of the group in this process, although the board has be determined by the board to be independent in character and judgement reviewed the exposure the group has to risk within joint arrangements.
and free from any business or other relationship which could materially As part of this process, the board and the audit, Gulf of Mexico and safety, interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are ethics and environment assurance committees requested, received and reviewed reports from executive management, including management of independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs the business segments, corporate activities and functions, at their regular meetings.
In considering the systems, the board noted that such systems are Committees designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive During the year, the board through its committees regularly reviewed with committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance executive management processes whereby risks are identied, evaluated committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
These processes were in place for the year under review, also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US remain current at the date of this report and accord with the guidance on companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed the UK Corporate Governance Code provided by the Financial Reporting solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be Council.
In December 2013, the board considered the groups significant independent, in the manner described above.
risks within the context of the annual plan presented by the group chief The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main tasks executive.
and requirements of each of the committees see the board committee A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance reports on page 74.
BP has not, therefore, adopted separate charters for committees in January 2014 reviewed a report from the general auditor as each committee.
part of the boards annual review of the risk management and internal control systems.
The report described the annual summary of internal Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is audits consideration of the design and operation of elements of BPs required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule system of internal control over significant risks arising in the categories of 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE Listed strategic and commercial, safety and operational and compliance and Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these control and considered the control environment for the group.
The BP audit committee does not have direct responsibility also highlighted the results of audit work conducted during the year and for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the independent the remedial actions taken by management in response to significant auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making failings and weaknesses identied.
recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
During the year, these committees engaged with management, the general auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee states group ethics and compliance officer, head of safety and operational risk that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or and the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of related financial management expertise.
The board determined that risks.
significant incidents that occurred and managements response to Brendan Nelson possessed such expertise and also possesses the them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK board.
Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit committee report on page 74.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee financial expert as dened In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable it in Item 16A of Form 20-F. to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors Turnbull.
110 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
