Corporate governance GoM committee focus in 2013 Integrated legal strategy including: t 3FTQPOTF BOE SFNFEJBUJPO BDUJWJUJFT t. VMUJ EJTUSJDU MJUJHBUJPO BOE t BUVSBM SFTPVSDF EBNBHFT BTTFTTNFOU t BUVSBM SFTPVSDF EBNBHFT t 3FTUPSBUJPO QSPKFDUT t 4VTQFOTJPO BOE EFCBSNFOU BDUJPOT t $MBJNT BENJOJTUSBUJPO t 0UIFS MJUJHBUJPO BOE JOWFTUJHBUJPOT Legal Operational Reputation Compliance t &YUFSOBM BGGBJST BOE DPNNVOJUZ PVUSFBDI t %FQBSUNFOU PG VTUJDF QMFB BHSFFNFOU t 64 HPWFSONFOU BOE NFEJB DPNNVOJDBUJPOT t 4&$ DPOTFOU PSEFS t OUFSOBM DPNNVOJDBUJPOT tJDFODF UP PQFSBUF Key responsibilities Nomination and chairmans committees t Oversee the legal strategy for litigation, investigations and suspension debarment actions arising from the accident and its aftermath, including the strategy connected with settlements and claims.
t Review the environmental work to remediate or mitigate the effects of the oil spill in the waters of the Gulf of Mexico and on the affected shorelines.
t Oversee management strategy and actions to restore the groups reputation in the United States.
t Review compliance with government settlement agreements arising out of the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill, including the SEC Consent Order and the Department of Justice Plea Agreement, in coordination with other committee and board oversight.
Members Name Membership status Ian Davis chair Member since July 2010: committee chair since July 2010 Chairmans introduction Paul Anderson Member since July 2010 I am pleased to report on the two board committees which I chair.
Both have been active during the year in seeking to develop the membership of Frank Bowman Member since February 2012 the board and its governance.
George David Member since July 2010 Nomination committee Activities during the year Role of the committee The committee ensures an orderly succession of candidates for directors The committee reviewed plans and progress in moving Gulf Coast shoreline response activities through to completion and sign-off by the US and company secretary.
Activities are now complete in all states with the exception of Key tasks Louisiana.
t Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment or The committee continued to oversee numerous legal matters relating to reappointment as directors.
the Deepwater Horizon accident, including the companys appeals to the t Identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment as US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit relating to the Court-Supervised company secretary.
Settlement Program and the first two phases of trial in MDL-2179.
t Keep under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the The committee met thirteen times in 2013. board to ensure the orderly succession of directors.
t Review the outside directorship commitments of the non-executive Committee review directors.
Each year the Gulf of Mexico committee evaluates its performance and effectiveness.
In 2013, the committee again used a questionnaire administered by external consultants covering the same questions used in 2012 in order to identify trends.
Key areas covered included the balance of skills and experience among its membership, quality and timeliness of information and support received by the committee, the appropriateness of committee tasks and how well the committee communicates its activities and findings to the board.
The results of the evaluation were positive.
Specic areas identied for focus in 2014 included maintaining constructive and challenging engagement with management and of continuing timely and effective communication of its activities and findings to the board.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 79
