Members Committee reports Name Membership status Audit committee Brendan Nelson Member since November 2010: chairman since chairman April 2011 George David Member since February 2008 Phuthuma Nhleko Member since February 2011 Andrew Shilston Member since February 2012 Brendan Nelson is chair of the audit committee.
He was formerly vice chairman of KPMG, is chairman of the group audit committee of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel and president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
The board is satisfied that Mr Nelson is the audit committee member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The board also determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as Chairmans introduction dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
The work of the audit committee in 2013 has been focused on three key Meetings are also attended by the chief financial officer, group controller, themes.
Firstly, financial reporting and accounting judgements, particularly chief accounting officer, group auditor head of group audit and external with respect to assessing BPs financial responsibilities arising from the auditor.
Secondly, reviews of key group-level risks and BPs system of controls and risk management.
Thirdly, regular reports Activities during the year which assist the committee in maintaining assurance over the Training management of financial risk and in overseeing the performance of the The committee received technical updates from the chief accounting external auditor.
These have been supplemented by private meetings of officer on developments in financial reporting and accounting policy.
the committee with key constituents, including our group audit function, Externally facilitated learning sessions were held on the UK government the group ethics and compliance officer and lead external audit partners.
programme on cyber-security, global trends in fraud and corruption and The monitoring committees of the audit, SEEA and Gulf of Mexico have developments in oil and gas accounting.
continued to operate according to agreed areas of oversight that enable Financial disclosure them to inform the wider boards view.
As chair of the audit committee, The committee reviewed the quarterly, half-year and annual financial I reported after each meeting to the board on the main matters discussed in statements with management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of our meeting to ensure all directors were informed of the committees work.
disclosure, compliance with relevant legal and financial reporting standards I believe the mix of skills and experience amongst the committees and the application of critical accounting policies and judgements.
members, together with the ability to discuss issues directly with management has led to an effective performance from the committee over In conjunction with the SEEAC, the committee examined whether the the year.
BP Annual Report 2013 was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Brendan Nelson performance, business model and strategy.
The process the two Committee chair committees and then the full board undertook as part of this examination is outlined in the introduction from the chairman in the Governance overview Role of the committee see page 69.
The committee monitors the effectiveness of the groups financial Accounting judgements and estimates reporting and systems of internal control and risk management.
Areas of significant judgement considered by the committee during the Key responsibilities year and how these were addressed included: t Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or mitigation t Oil and natural gas accounting of financial risks are appropriately addressed by the group chief BP uses judgement and estimations when accounting for oil and gas executive and that the internal control system is designed and exploration, appraisal and development expenditure and determining the implemented effectively in support of the limits imposed by the board groups estimated oil and gas reserves.
The committee reviewed Executive Limitations as set out in the BP board governance judgemental aspects of oil and gas accounting as part of the companys principles: quarterly due diligence process.
It also examined the governance framework for the oil and gas reserves process, training for staff and t Reviewing financial statements and other financial disclosures and developments in regulations and controls.
monitoring compliance with relevant legal and listing requirements: t Recoverability of asset carrying values t Reviewing the effectiveness of the group audit function and BPs Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired internal financial controls and systems of internal control and risk involves management judgement and estimates on highly uncertain management: matters such as future pricing or discount rates.
Judgements are also t Overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and required in assessing the recoverability of overdue receivables and performance of the external auditor and the integrity of the audit process deciding whether a provision is required.
as a whole, including the engagement of the external auditor to supply The committee reviewed the discount rates for impairment testing as non-audit services to BP: part of its annual process and examined the assumptions for long-term t Reviewing the systems in place to enable those who work for BP to oil and gas prices and rening margins.
Following political and economic raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other developments in Egypt, the committee reviewed at each quarter with issues and for those matters to be investigated.
management whether the groups financial assets were impaired.
"74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Audit committee focus in 2013 t 'JOBODJBM SFTVMUT BOOPVODFNFOUT t &YUFSOBM BVEJUPS JOEFQFOEFODF t ""OOVBM 3FQPSU BOE 'PSN ' conrmation."
"t ""DDPVOUJOH KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT t PO BVEJU GFFT o QPMJDZ BOE BQQSPWBM t %FWFMPQNFOUT JO mOBODJBM SFQPSUJOH t ""VEJU QMBO GFFT BOE FOHBHFNFOU and accounting."
"t ""VEJUPS QFSGPSNBODF BOE FGGFDUJWFOFTT Financial External t 0JM BOE HBT SFTFSWFT EJTDMPTVSFT t, FZ BSFBT PG KVEHFNFOU GPS ZFBS FOE BVEJU disclosure audit t 'BJS CBMBODFE BOE VOEFSTUBOEBCMF t ""VEJU UFOEFSJOH System of internal Risk t 3FWJFX PG FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG #1 T TZTUFN PG t $ZCFSTFDVSJUZ control and risk reviews internal control and risk management."
"t 5SBEJOH management t SPVQ BVEJU SFQPSUT t $PNQMJBODF XJUI CVTJOFTT SFHVMBUJPOT t 'SBVE BOE NJTDPOEVDU SFQPSUT t 4VDDFTTJPO BOE EFWFMPQNFOU JO mOBODF t &UIJDT BOE DPNQMJBODF SFQPSUT t &GGFDUJWFOFTT PG JOWFTUNFOU t ""OOVBM FUIJDT DFSUJmDBUJPO Undertaken jointly with the SEEAC."
t Acquisitions of interests in other entities The committee examined developments relating to the interpretation of BP exercises judgement when assessing the level of control obtained in the business economic loss claims element of the companys a transaction to acquire an interest in another entity and when settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, including US court determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The rulings and monitored legal developments whilst considering the committee examined the accounting for BPs transaction with Rosneft impacts on the financial statements and other disclosures.
and the judgement on whether the group has significant inuence over t Pensions and other post-retirement benets Rosneft, as where such inuence exists, equity accounting is applied Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benets involves resulting in the recognition of BPs share of Rosnefts results each judgement about uncertain events, including discount rates, ination and quarter and the reporting of BPs share of production and hydrocarbon life expectancy.
The committee examined the assumptions used by reserves.
During the year the committee received reports from management as part of its annual reporting process.
management and the external auditor which assessed the extent of Risk reviews significant inuence, including BPs participation in decision making The group risks allocated to the audit committee for monitoring in 2013 through director election to the Rosneft board and other factors.
included risks associated with trading activities, compliance with applicable t Taxation laws and regulations and security threats against BPs digital infrastructure.
Computation of the groups tax expense and liability, the provisioning for For 2014, the board has agreed that the committee will maintain monitoring potential tax liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset recognition in of the same group risks.
The committee held in-depth reviews of these relation to accumulated tax losses are underpinned by management group risks over the year, examined succession planning and capability judgement.
The committee reviewed the judgements exercised on tax development in the finance function and reviewed the effectiveness and provisioning as part of its annual review of key provisions.
efficiency of the capital investment of a number of BPs major projects.
t Derivative financial instruments Internal control and risk management BP uses judgement when estimating the fair value of some derivative The committee reviewed the groups system of internal control and risk instruments in cases where there is an absence of liquid market pricing management over the year, holding a joint meeting with the SEEAC to information for example, long-term gas contracts which have a lengthy discuss key audit findings and managements actions to remedy significant duration.
This approach is taken for the groups longer-term, structured issues.
The committee reviews the scope, activity and effectiveness of the derivative products, natural gas embedded derivatives and the forward group audit function and met privately with the general auditor and his contracts entered into in 2012 to purchase shares in Rosneft.
The segment and functional heads during the year.
committee received reports from the external auditor on the valuation The committee received quarterly reports on the findings of group audit, models developed for these contracts and reviewed disclosures relating on identied fraud and misconduct and on key ethics and compliance to these instruments in the notes to the financial statements.
A further joint meeting with the SEEAC was held to discuss the t Provisions and contingencies annual certication report of compliance with the BP code of conduct.
The The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and two committees also met to discuss the group audit and ethics and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their compliance programmes for 2013.
The committee held a private meeting economic lives.
Most of these decommissioning events are in the long with the group ethics and compliance officer during the year.
term and the requirements that will have to be met when a removal External audit event occurs are uncertain.
Judgement is applied by the company when The external auditors started the audit cycle with their plan which identied estimating issues such as settlement dates, technology and legal key audit risks to be monitored during the year including exposures requirements.
The committee received briengs on the groups relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, estimation of oil and gas reserves, decommissioning, environmental remediation and litigation provisioning, estimation of pension liabilities, recoverability of the groups financial including key assumptions used, the governance framework applied assets in Egypt and future commodity prices and their impact on the covering accountabilities and controls, discount rates and the carrying value of the groups assets.
The committee received updates movement in provisions over time.
during the year on the audit process, including how the auditors had t Gulf of Mexico oil spill challenged the groups assumptions on these issues.
Judgement was applied during the year to the significant uncertainties over the provisions and contingencies relating to the incident.
The committee regularly discussed the provisioning for and the disclosure of contingent liabilities relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill with management and the external auditors, including as part of the review of BPs stock exchange announcement at each quarter end.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 75 The audit committee annually reviews the fee structure, resourcing and partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer to the terms of engagement for the external auditor.
Fees paid to the external group.
The current lead partner has been in place since the start of 2013. auditor for the year were $53 million, of which 9% was for non-assurance Audit tendering work see Financial statements Note 37.
Non-audit or non-audit related During the year the committee considered the groups position on its audit assurance fees were $5 million 2012 $7 million.
The $2-million reduction services contract following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code in non-audit fees relates primarily to reduced corporate finance and proposed European Union regulations concerning the audit market.
transactions and lower tax advisory services.
Non-audit or non-audit The committee examined a number of options regarding the timing of related assurance services consisted of tax compliance services, tax tendering for BPs external audit, including the mandatory rotation of the advisory services and services relating to corporate finance transactions.
groups audit rm envisaged by proposed European regulations.
The audit committee is satisfied that this level of fee is appropriate in In view of the uncertainty regarding the form and impact of these respect of the audit services provided and that an effective audit can be regulations, the committee concluded that the best interests of the group conducted for this fee.
and its shareholders would be served by utilizing the transition The effectiveness of the audit process was evaluated through a committee arrangements outlined by the FRC and retaining BPs existing audit rm review and a survey of employees in the groups finance function.
The until the conclusion of the term of its current lead partner.
Accordingly the 2013 evaluations concluded that there was a good quality audit process committee intends that the audit contract will be put out to tender in 2016, and that the external auditors were regarded as knowledgeable and in order that a decision can be taken and communicated to shareholders at capable, with an ability to challenge the BP team constructively and to BPs AGM in 2017: the new audit services contract would then be ensure balanced reporting.
There was also support for the independence effective from 2018. of the external auditors and feedback that they should continue sharing good industry practice.
Non-audit services Audit objectivity and independence is safeguarded through the limitation of The committee held private meetings with the external auditors during the non-audit services to tax and audit-related work which falls within dened year and the committee chair met privately with the external auditor before categories.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the auditors may each meeting.
not perform non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, Public Auditor appointment and independence Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB and UK Auditing Practices The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each Board APB.
The categories of approved and prohibited services are year before making a recommendation to the board and shareholders.
committee assesses the independence of the external auditor on an The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as ongoing basis and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external partner every five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
No Permitted and non-permitted audit services Permitted services Audit related Advice on accounting, auditing and financial reporting.
Internal accounting and risk management control reviews.
Project assurance advice on business and accounting process improvement.
Due diligence acquisition, disposals, joint arrangements.
Direct and indirect tax advisory services.
Assistance with tax audits and appeals.
Tax compliance advisory relating to human capital and performance reward.
Other services Workshops, seminars and training on an arms length basis.
Assistance on non-financial regulatory requirements.
Provision of independent third-party audit on BPs Conict Minerals Report.
Prohibited services SEC principles of auditor independence Book keeping other services related to financial records.
Financial information systems design and implementation.
Appraisal, valuation, fairness opinions, contribution in-kind.
Broker-dealer, investment advisor, banking services.
Expert services unrelated to audit.
PCAOB ethics and independence rules Contingent fees.
Condential or aggressive tax position transactions.
Tax services for persons in financial reporting oversight roles.
76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
