Report of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee Role of the committee Directors and officers liability insurance: and The primary responsibilities of the Audit and The committees terms of reference.
Management Engagement Committee are to monitor the integrity of the financial reporting and The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all statements of the Company, and to oversee the aspects relating to external financial statements audit of the annual and half-yearly accounts and the and other significant published financial information.
internal control and risk management processes.
The committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, The committee met on four occasions during the the Managers Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption year with the Managers Head of Trust Accounting, Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing Head of Internal Audit and the Fund Manager in policy that has been put in place by the Manager attendance.
PwC attended all of the scheduled under which its staff may, in confidence, raise committee meetings and occasionally met in closed concerns about possible improprieties in financial session with the committee.
The necessary Specifically, the committee considered, monitored arrangements are in place for proportionate and and reviewed the following matters throughout the year: independent investigation of such matters and for The audited results statements, annual and appropriate follow-up action.
half-yearly reports and accounts and interim management statements: Composition of the committee The accounting policies of the Company: Committee membership is listed on pages 14 The effectiveness of the Companys internal control and 15 and its terms of reference can be found environment: on the website at www.
The effectiveness of the audit process and the All the committee members are independent nonindependence and objectivity of PwC, their executive Directors.
Jeff Hewitt, chairman of the reappointment, remuneration and terms of committee, is a chartered accountant and engagement: was for many years Group Finance Director of The policy on the engagement of PwC to supply Electrocomponents plc.
He was, until recently, the non-audit services: External Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee The need for the Company to have its own internal of the John Lewis Partnership as well as being audit audit function: committee chairman of other listed companies.
The implications of proposed new accounting The other members of the committee have a standards and regulatory changes: combination of financial, investment and business The receipt of AAF and SSAE16 reports or their experience through the senior posts held throughout equivalent from the Custodian, the private equity their careers.
managers and the sub-managers and a due diligence report from the Companys share registrars: Internal controls and management of risk The performance of the Companys third party The Board has overall responsibility for the service providers and administrators, and the fees Companys systems of internal controls, for charged in respect of those services including reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk those of the Manager and Custodian: management and control processes are embedded Counterparty approval and the Managers dealing in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
The efficiency and associated costs: committee has reviewed and reported to the Board Investment restrictions including limits on the on these controls, which aim to ensure that the writing of options: assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper Compliance with the provisions of the trust deed accounting records are maintained, and the financial for the 11.25% debenture stock 2014: information used within the business and for The Companys trade marks and intellectual publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, property rights: covering financial, operational, compliance and 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC overall risk management, is exercised through regular Through the procedures noted above the reports provided by the Manager on investment committee assisted the Board in its ongoing performance, performance attribution, compliance process for identifying: evaluating and managing the with agreed investment restrictions, financial Companys significant risks and in the regular and analyses, revenue estimates, performance of the third recent review of internal controls in accordance with party administrators of the F&C savings plans and on the Turnbull Guidance.
The committee has direct Following a recommendation from the committee, access to the Managers group audit committee the Board has concluded that there is no current and its Internal Audit Department prepares a control need for the Company to have an internal audit report that provides details of any internal significant function.
All of the Companys management functions control failure.
A key risk summary is also produced are delegated to the Manager, which has its own to help identify the risks to which the Company is internal audit department, and whose controls are exposed and the controls in place to mitigate them, monitored by the Committee and Board.
including risks that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Companys principal risks are External audit process significant issues set out on page 13 with additional information In carrying out its responsibilities the committee has given in note 26 on the accounts.
considered the planning arrangements, materiality The systems of internal controls are designed levels and conclusions of the audit for the period to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to under review.
achieve business objectives and can only provide PwC carried out an interim audit for the halfreasonable, but not absolute, assurance against year ended 30 June 2013 and in October 2013 the material misstatement, or loss or fraud.
Further committee considered and approved PwCs plan for to the review of the committee, the Board has the full year audit.
assessed the effectiveness of the internal control The table on page 34 describes the significant systems, including a review of the Managers risk issues considered by the committee in relation to the management infrastructure and the report on financial statements for the year ended 31 December policies and procedures in operation and tests for 2013 and how these issues were addressed.
the period 1 January to 31 December 2013 the The committee met in February 2014 to discuss Report.
This has been prepared by the Manager the draft final Report and Accounts for the year for its investment trust clients to the standards of the ended 31 December 2013, with representatives of Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and the auditor and the Manager in attendance.
The committee established and agreed that there Containing a report from independent external were no material issues arising which needed to be accountants, the Report sets out the Managers brought to the attention of the Board.
PwC submitted control policies and procedures with respect their report to the committee at this meeting and to the management of its clients investments confirmed that they had no reason not to issue an and maintenance of their financial records.
The unqualified audit report in respect of the Report and effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Accounts for the year.
The committee subsequently Managers group audit committee, which receives recommended to the Board that the Report and regular reports from the Managers Internal Audit Accounts were in their view, fair, balanced and Department.
Procedures are in place to capture understandable in accordance with accounting and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure standards, regulatory requirements and best that action would be taken to remedy any significant practice.
The unqualified audit report, which sets issues identified from this monitoring, which would out the scope of the audit and the areas of focus, in be reported to the Board.
No failings or weaknesses compliance with applicable auditing standards, can material to the overall control environment and be found on pages 37 to 40. financial statements were identified in the year under review.
Report and Accounts 2013 33 Report of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee continued Significant Issues considered by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee in 2013 Matter Action Investment Portfolio Valuation The Companys portfolio is invested in The committee reviewed the Managers, sub-managers securities listed on recognised stock and private equity managers annual internal control exchanges and in private equity investments.
reports which are reported on by independent external The listed securities are highly liquid.
The auditors and which detail the systems and controls around private equity portfolio comprises funds the daily pricing and valuation of securities.
of funds holding a diversity of unlisted The committee reviewed the valuation of the unlisted investments whose values are subjective.
portfolio in detail twice in the year and had access to the Errors in valuation of the portfolio could have managers of the private equity funds of funds.
a material impact on the Companys net asset value per share.
Misappropriation of Assets Misappropriation of the Companys investments The committee reviewed the Managers annual internal or cash balances could have a material impact control report for the year ended 31 December 2013 on its net asset value per share.
which details the controls around the reconciliation of the Managers records to those of the Custodian.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the Custodians annual internal control report to 30 September 2013, which is reported on by independent external accountants and which provides details regarding its control environment.
Regular updates from the Manager and Custodian, in respect of controls operating in subsequent periods up to 31 December 2013, were also reviewed.
Income Recognition Incomplete or inaccurate recognition could have The committee reviewed the Managers annual internal an adverse effect on the Companys net asset control report and updates.
It also compared the final level value and earnings per share and its level of of income received for the year to the budget which was dividend cover.
set at the start of the year and discussed the accounting treatment of special dividends with the Manager.
Nevertheless, the appointment and appointment has not previously been put out to tender and, As part of the review of auditor independence and as indicated last year, a tender will be conducted effectiveness, PwC have confirmed that they are later in 2014, in conjunction with the rotation of independent of the Company and have complied the audit partner.
Meanwhile, the committee has with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating PwC, recommended the reappointment of PwC to the the committee has taken into consideration the Board ahead of the tender taking place.
standing, skills and experience of the firm and the The Companys policy with regard to the provision audit team.
From direct observation and indirect by PwC of non-audit services is that: the services enquiry of management, the committee remains should not be managed by members of the audit satisfied that PwC continue to provide effective engagement team: the services should not have independent challenge in carrying out their a material effect on the financial statements: and 34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC the fees thereon should not be contingent.
The committee has reviewed the provision of such nonaudit services in 2013, totalling 10,000.
PwC has confirmed to the committee that the services were provided in compliance with the Companys policy, and the committee considers the services to have been cost-effective and not to have compromised the independence of PwC.
The non-audit services include taxation matters and assistance in analysing and mitigating risk.
The chairman of the committee is advised of non-audit work required and a decision to authorise is taken on a case-by-case basis.
Further information can be found in note 5 on the accounts.
The activities of the committee were evaluated as part of the Board appraisal process.
Jeffrey Hewitt Audit and Management Engagement Committee Chairman 3 March 2014 Report and Accounts 2013 35
