Corporate Governance Statement Introduction and all investments in in-house funds managed or The Board has considered the principles set out advised by the Manager.
in the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK There is no chief executive position within Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the Company, as day-to-day management of the the AIC Code.
The Board believes that during Companys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
the period under review the Company has complied The following table sets out the number of Board with the provisions of the UK Code, in so far as they and committee meetings held and attended during relate to the Companys business.
The Board is also the year under review.
The Board held a strategy adhering to the principles and recommendations of meeting in September 2013 to consider strategic the AIC Code.
issues and also met in closed session on two occasions during the year, without any representation Articles of association from the Manager.
Separate meetings of the Audit The Companys articles of association may only be and Management Engagement Committee were also amended by special resolution at general meetings of held to consider the AIFMD and bank financing.
the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
Directors attendance The Board Audit and The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship Management Engagement Nomination of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule Board Committee Committee of matters reserved for its decision, which are No.
of meetings 8 4 1 categorised under various headings.
These include 1 Simon Fraser 8 4 1 strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, Sarah Arkle 8 4 n a performance, marketing, appointments, the Board Sir Roger Bone 8 n a 1 and public documents.
It has responsibility for all Stephen Burley 7 4 n a corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, share 2 Francesca Ecsery 3 n a n a buyback policy and corporate governance matters Jeff Hewitt 8 4 n a which are all reviewed regularly.
Christopher Keljik 8 4 1 In order to enable them to discharge their Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 1 responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely 1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee.
At each meeting 2 Joined the Board on 1 August 2013. the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and Each Director has signed a terms of appointment other reports of an operational nature.
The Board letter with the Company, in each case including monitors compliance with the Companys objectives one months notice of termination by either party.
and is responsible for setting investment and gearing These are available for inspection at the Companys limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion registered office during normal business hours and to act, and thus supervises the management of the are also available at annual general meetings.
investment portfolio which is contractually delegated Directors are able to seek independent professional to the Manager.
advice at the Companys expense in relation to The Board has the right of veto over the their duties.
No such advice was taken during the appointment of sub-managers recommended by the year under review.
The Board has direct access Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the to company secretarial advice and services of the approval of private equity and unlisted investments Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
Investors in New Zealand procedures are followed and applicable regulations should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best other meetings are fully recorded through a process Practice Code.
Report and Accounts 2013 25 Corporate Governance Statement continued that allows any Directors concerns to be recorded Partnership LLP.
The process included confidential in the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint unattributable one-to-one interviews between the or remove the Company Secretary in accordance independent consultant and each Director.
The with the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Fund Manager, Head of Investment Trusts and the powers of the Board relating to the buying back of Company Secretary also participated to provide allthe Companys shares are explained on pages 7, round feedback to the Board.
There is an explanation of the Boards Chairman was covered as part of the process and led powers to issue shares on page 23. separately by the Senior Independent Director.
The progress in achieving the objectives set for Appointments, diversity and succession planning 2013 and those relating to the critical success factors Under the articles of association of the Company, established and identified in 2010 were reviewed as the number of directors on the Board may be no part of the process.
One-to-one meetings between more than fifteen.
Directors may be appointed by the Chairman and each Director will take place in the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
March 2014 for the purpose of providing individual All new appointments by the Board are subject feedback and establishing an overall conclusion on to election by shareholders at the next AGM and the effectiveness of the Board.
A report incorporating institutional shareholders are given the opportunity a modified list of priorities will be presented to the to meet any newly appointed Director if they wish.
All the other Directors stand for re-election by shareholders annually.
Removal of Directors The final decision with regard to new appointments The Company may by special resolution remove any always rests with the Board.
A professional search Director before the expiration of his period of office and consultancy is appointed for the purpose of finding may by ordinary resolution appoint another person who suitable candidates.
An induction process is in place is willing to act to be a Director in his place.
for new appointees and all Directors are encouraged Any Director automatically ceases to be a Director if: to attend relevant training courses and seminars.
One i they give the company a written notice of new appointment was made during the year.
resignation, The Board believes in the benefits of having a ii they give the company a written offer to resign diverse range of skills and backgrounds, including and the Board resolves to accept this offer, gender and length of service, on its board of iii all of the other Directors remove them from Directors.
All appointments will continue to be based office by notice in writing served upon them, on merit and therefore the Board is unwilling to iv in the written opinion of a registered medical commit to numerical diversity targets.
The Board practitioner they are or have become physically or is also of the view that length of service will not mentally incapable of acting as a Director and are necessarily compromise the independence or likely to remain so for more than three months, contribution of directors of an investment trust v by reason of a Directors mental health, a court company, where continuity and experience can add makes an order which wholly or partly prevents that significantly to the strength of the board.
In normal Director from personally exercising any powers or circumstances the Directors are expected to serve rights which that Director would otherwise have, for a nine year term, but this may be adjusted for vi a bankruptcy order is made against them or reasons of flexibility and continuity.
they make any arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, Board effectiveness vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or The 2013 annual appraisal of the Board, the viii they are absent from Board meetings for six Committees and the individual Directors has been consecutive months without permission and the carried out by the Chairman with the support of other Directors resolve that their office should independent consultants, The Board Advisory be vacated.
26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Independence of Directors iii the criteria for future Board appointments The Board, which is composed solely of independent and the methods of recruitment, selection, non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the appointment and induction: independence of its members.
All the Directors have iv the appointment of new Directors and the been assessed by the Board as remaining independent re-appointment of those Directors standing for of the Manager and of the Company itself: none has re-election at annual general meetings: a past or current connection with the Manager and v changes in committee membership: each remains independent in character and judgement vi the attendance and time commitment of the with no relationships or circumstances relating to the Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
extent of their other directorships: vii the question of each Directors independence prior Conflicts of interest to publication of the Annual Report and Accounts: A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid viii the authorisation of each Directors situational a situation in which he or she has, or potentially could conflicts of interests in accordance with the have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the interests of the company a situational conflict.
policy and procedures established by the Board The Board therefore has procedures in place for the in relation to these provisions: and authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating ix the Directors contract for services and terms of to the Directors.
Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors other directorships as situational conflicts, All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities no authorisations have been sought.
These have been carried out over the course of 2013 and in authorisations were reviewed in January 2014, and January 2014. each Director abstained from voting in respect of The Committees terms of reference are available their own directorships.
on request and can also be found on the Companys Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors website at www.
Committee must also comply with the statutory rules requiring membership is listed on pages 14 and 15 and company directors to declare any interest in an attendance at meetings on page 25. actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Company.
Remuneration Committee As the Board has no executive Directors and no Audit and Management Engagement Committee employees, and is composed solely of nonThe Board has established an Audit and executives, it does not have a remuneration Management Engagement Committee, the role and committee.
Detailed information on the remuneration responsibilities of which are set out in the report on arrangements for the Directors of the Company can page 32. be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Annual Report on Remuneration on pages Nomination Committee 29 to 31 and in note 5 on the accounts.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to review and make recommendations to the Board with Relations with shareholders regard to: Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In i Board structure, size and composition, the addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are balance of knowledge, experience, skill range available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and and diversity: general information are available on the Companys ii succession planning and tenure policy: website at www.
A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys institutional shareholders and with private client Report and Accounts 2013 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued asset managers.
As in previous years, the Chairman contacted the top institutional shareholders, as a result of which email correspondence took place with a small number of these shareholders.
Reference to significant holdings in the Companys ordinary shares can be found under Voting rights and proportional voting on page 19.
At annual general meetings, all investors have the opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the Board and the Fund Manager.
All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of direction and have the right to attend, speak and vote at all meetings.
The Manager has stated that the nominee company will vote the shares held on behalf of planholders who have not returned their voting directions in proportion to the directions of those who have.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary, at the address set out on page 16 or by email to FCITCoSec@fandc.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited Secretary 3 March 2014 28 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
