34 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance The Group operates within a The Board is responsible for: clear governance framework, defining, challenging and interrogating the strategic direction of the Group: which is outlined in the determining risk appetite, and to ensure risk, regulatory and compliance diagram below and set out in management within the Group is effective: the report that follows.
The monitoring financial, risk and operating performance against delivery of Groups internal control and the agreed strategy: engaging with shareholders: and risk management framework is ensuring solid succession planning by effectively managing the Groups described below in the Internal talent and capital.
The executive directors are directly Certain responsibilities of the Board responsible for running the business are delegated to the Board Committees operations.
The non-executive directors are to assist the Board in carrying out its responsible for constructively challenging functions and to ensure independent proposals on strategy, scrutinising the oversight of internal control and risk performance of management, determining management.
Other non-board committees levels of remuneration and for succession form part of the Corporate Governance planning for the executive directors.
The framework, but are not formally appointed non-executive directors must also satisfy committees of the Board.
These committees themselves on the integrity of financial feed back to the main Board and Board information and that financial controls and Committees via an executive Director where systems of risk management are robust.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc governance framework Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board External audit Audit Nomination Board Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Internal audit Executive Committee Non-Board Committee Investment Treasury Interest Rate Risk IT Steering Group Committee Committee Committee Committee www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 35 Statement of compliance with the The Board board and the success of the Company.
We believe that diversity amongst board UK Corporate Governance Code Board size, composition and changes members is of great value but that diversity during the year is a far wider subject than just gender.
We During the year ended 30 June 2013, As at 30 June 2013 there were eight will give careful consideration to issues Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it has Directors on the Board: the Chairman, four of overall board balance and diversity in Corporate Governance applied the principles of the UK Corporate other independent non-executive directors, making new appointments to the board.
Governance Code the Code with the and three executive directors.
The size following exception: and composition of the Board is regularly As of today, the board numbers eight in reviewed by the Board and, in particular total, of which three are executive and five 1.
Board effectiveness and performance the Nominations Committee, to ensure that independent including the Chairman.
evaluation there is an appropriate and diverse mix of Women directors constitute 12.5% of We did not comply with Section B.
6.1 of the skills and experience.
the board and 12.5% of the Executive Code which states that the evaluation of Committee 22% when including the the Board should be externally facilitated During the year, the following change was Company Secretary.
Subject to the at least every three years.
This year, as made: requirements set out above, Hargreaves per the two previous years, the Board Stephen Lansdown retired from the Lansdown will aim to maintain female carried out an internally facilitated review, Board as a non-executive director on 23 representation on the board at least at the led by the Chairman.
Prior to deciding to November 2012 current level and give due consideration perform an internal review, the Board fully to increasing the level if appropriate debated the issue having due regard to Details on our Board members, including candidates are available when board the requirements of the Code.
In reaching other directorships, are on pages 32 to 33. vacancies arise.
its decision the Board took account of the following factors: the Group had enjoyed In April 2013, having due regard to A copy of our full statement on Board another successful business year, the succession planning, the Nominations Diversity can be found on www.
co. uk two most recent non-executive recruits Committee commenced the search for were still relatively new to the Board, the a new non-executive director with the Roles and responsibilities of the Board previous internally led evaluations have necessary background and qualification to The Board has overall responsibility for led to positive developments and the become in due course the Chairman of the the management and performance of the presence of the largest shareholder on Audit Committee.
It sets the strategic direction of the Board ensures that the Boards focus the Group, determines the appropriate remains on driving shareholder value.
Independence of non-executive directors risk appetite, and ensures that sufficient Finally the culture of the Group is to avoid The Code sets out the circumstances resources in talent and capital are in unnecessary discretionary spending and that should be relevant to the Board in place to achieve the objectives set and the Board deemed the prospective costs determining whether each non-executive ensures solid succession planning for of an externally facilitated review would director is independent.
We have given due senior management.
It ensures that risk, outweigh the likely additional value regard to provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate regulatory and compliance management and therefore not in the best interest of Governance Code and the Board has are done appropriately.
concluded that Dharmash Mistry, Stephen performance, including that of the Robertson, Chris Barling and Jonathan management team and senior executives.
Further explanation of how the principles Bloomer were independent directors It is the decision-making body for all other and supporting principles of the Code have throughout the financial year.
Michael matters deemed material to the Group in been applied is set out in this Corporate Evans was independent on appointment as strategic, financial and reputational terms.
Governance statement and in the Directors Chairman.
Jonathan Bloomer is currently the The non-executive directors constructively Remuneration report.
A copy of the Code Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
challenge the management team and is publicly available on the Financial supplement the executive directors' Reporting Councils website at www.
Diversity management expertise with a diversity of uk.
When assessing new appointments to our business skills and experience.
Board, we review carefully the combined The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, is skills and experience of the existing Board The Directors are also responsible for required to review whether the above members to determine what characteristics ensuring that obligations to shareholders statement reflects the Companys we are looking for from a new director.
and other stakeholders are understood compliance with the provisions of the UK Each member of the Hargreaves Lansdown and met, and that a satisfactory dialogue Corporate Governance Code specified for its board must have the skills, experience and with shareholders is maintained.
All review by the Listing Rules and to report if character that will enable each director to Directors are equally accountable to our it does not reflect such compliance: no such contribute both individually, and as part shareholders for the proper stewardship of report has been made.
of the team, to the effectiveness of the our affairs and the success of the Company.
co. uk 36 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Except for a formal schedule of matters have access to the services of the Company Board at the Annual General Meeting.
reserved for decision by the Board, Secretary.
the Board has delegated the day-toThe Company maintains insurance cover day management of the Group to the In order for Directors to fulfil their for up to 20 million for all directors Chief Executive who is supported by the duties they can also seek independent and officers of Group companies against Executive Committee and senior executives.
professional advice, at the Companys liability which may be incurred acting as The Chief Executive and executive directors expense.
directors and officers and this remains in of the Group are responsible to the Board force at the date of this report.
for developing strategy and the profitability Board meetings and overall performance of the Group.
The Board convenes at least four times each Training financial year, and convened five times in Our Chairman is responsible for preparing There is a documented schedule of matters the last financial year.
and implementing a personalised induction which are reserved for Board decision and programme for all new Directors, to include approval.
These matters are significant to Meetings are held in such a way as to guidance as to their duties, responsibilities the Group as a whole due to their strategic, encourage robust and constructive challenge and liabilities as a director of the Company.
financial or reputational implications, and debate which enables the non-executive We believe that the best way to learn about and include, but are not limited to, the directors to use their knowledge and a business is to spend time within it, and agreement of strategies, recommendation experience to critically review strategies we encourage new Directors to spend time of dividends, approval of acquisitions and proposed by management.
This approach with our senior managers and executives in major capital expenditure.
In addition, ensures that we act in the long-term best a number of business areas and to receive it is only the Board which can appoint interests of our shareholders.
demonstrations of key operations and and remove Directors and our Company systems where relevant.
The Board also has overall Between Board meetings, Directors are responsibility for the Groups system of provided with monthly information packs Our overall objective is to maintain and internal controls and risk management.
which include detailed commentary and enhance professional standards for all Risk management arrangements are analysis.
To ensure that Directors are our employees.
We believe that these described below.
as fully informed as possible, minutes standards are particularly important for all are circulated from each Committee, staff who fall under the scope of the FCA The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive including the Executive Committee, and Training and Competence rules.
All staff The roles of the Chairman and Chief each Board meeting includes a report under the scope of these rules are required Executive are clearly defined, separate and from the Committees as appropriate.
The to perform certain training annually.
Chairman and non-executive directors have also held meetings separate to those Every director has access to appropriate The Chairman is responsible for the with the executive Directors, including training throughout their appointment operation, leadership and governance of meeting with the external auditor and the as director and we regularly assess the the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and Head of Internal Audit.
From July 2013, requirement for director training as part of setting its agenda.
In conjunction with the the Board is introducing interim board each directors annual appraisal.
Chief Executive and Company Secretary, meetings to fall between the four main the Chairman plans agenda items and board meetings, which will take place in the Board effectiveness and performance timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman form of conference calls.
These will further evaluation ensures that the membership of the Board is help the non-Executive Directors keep fully This year, the Board carried out an internally appropriate to the needs of the business and informed of recent developments and will facilitated board effectiveness review.
The that Board committees carry out their duties, ensure that Directors fully work together to review was led by the Chairman and covered including reporting back to the Board.
ensure the smooth running of the business.
the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, its individual Directors and its Committees.
The Chief Executive has executive Directors All directors contributed to the review with responsibilities for the operations, results Under the existing Articles of Association one-to-one discussions with the Chairman.
and strategic development of the Group.
He all directors have to submit themselves In addition, the non-executive directors and is responsible for the delivery of strategy for re-election annually if they wish to the Chairman met collectively to discuss the and leads the executive management team.
continue serving and are considered performance of the Board.
The initial output by the Board to be eligible.
All current from the review was discussed by the Board Board support directors bar one wish to be re-elected at its meeting in May and the final report The Company Secretary is responsible to and the Board confirms that all individual tabled and agreed in August.
The outcome the Board for ensuring Board procedures performance reviews demonstrated that the of the review was positive with a number are followed, applicable rules and directors continue to demonstrate effective of agreed actions to be pursued in the regulations are complied with and that performance and commitment to their coming year.
These include a greater focus the Board is advised on governance and roles.
Jonathan Bloomer has given notice on strategy and its implementation, the relevant regulatory matters.
All Directors that he will be stepping down from the introduction of four interim board meetings www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 by way of conference calls, improvement in the annual and interim reports, On an on-going basis, membership of the the timeliness of Board paper circulation preliminary results and any other formal Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of and greater cohesiveness in the challenge announcements relating to financial the Committee at regular intervals and any provided by the non-executive directors.
performance: recommendations for new appointments risk reporting: are made to the Nomination Committee Individual appraisal of each directors reviewing the Groups internal financial for onward recommendation to the Board.
performance is undertaken by either the Chief controls and the Groups internal control Appointments are for a period of three Executive or Chairman each year and involves and risk management systems: years and are extendable by no more meetings with each director on a one-to-one monitoring and reviewing the than two additional three-year periods.
The non-executive directors, led effectiveness of the Groups Internal The Audit Committee structure requires by the senior independent director, carry Audit function: the inclusion of one financially qualified out an appraisal of the performance of the making recommendations to the member and our Committee Chairman Chairman.
The Chief Executives performance Board, for a resolution to be put to the currently fulfils this requirement.
was evaluated by the Chairman with input shareholders for their approval in general from the rest of the Board.
meetings in relation to the appointment The Board expects the Audit Committee of the external auditor and the approval members to have an understanding of: of the remuneration and terms of the principles of financial reporting Board committees engagement of the external auditor: and including applicable accounting This section of the report sets out how reviewing and monitoring the external standards and statements of the Board and its Committees work within auditors independence and objectivity recommended practice: the Groups governance framework and and the effectiveness of the audit key aspects of the Groups operations corporate governance guidelines.
process, taking into consideration and systems of internal control: relevant UK professional and regulatory matters that influence or distort the Certain responsibilities of the Board are requirements.
presentation of accounts and key figures: delegated to the Board Committees to the principles of, and developments in, assist the Board in carrying out its functions The Audit Committee is required to report company law, sector-specific laws and and to ensure independent oversight of its findings to the Board, identifying any other relevant corporate legislation: internal control and risk management.
The matters in respect of which it considers the role of internal and external auditing three principal Board Committees Audit, that action or improvement is needed, and and risk management: Remuneration, and Nomination play an make recommendations as to the steps to the regulatory framework for the Groups essential role in supporting the Board in be taken.
businesses: and fulfilling its responsibilities.
The minutes environmental and social responsibility of each Board Committee meeting are The Audit Committee has also continued best practices.
circulated and noted by the Board.
to monitor our public interest disclosure Whistleblowing policy which contains The Board is satisfied that all of the The Board Committees all have formal details of the process by which employees Committees members have a level of Terms of Reference that have been can raise, in confidence, complaints on recent and relevant commercial and approved by the Board, and performance accounting, risk issues, internal controls, financial knowledge and experience to of the Committees is assessed annually auditing issues and related matters for satisfy the provisions of the Code.
Each Committees terms of reporting to the Audit Committee as Group provides an induction programme reference sets out the specific matters for appropriate.
for new Audit Committee members and which delegated authority has been given on-going training to enable all of the by the Board.
These terms of reference The Chairman of the Audit Committee will Committee members to carry out their are reviewed annually and the terms of be available at the Annual General Meeting duties.
The induction programme covers reference of the Audit, Remuneration and to answer any questions about the work of the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of Nomination Committee are available on the the Committee.
reference and expected time commitment Groups website www.
co. uk investorby members, and an overview of the relations.
A summary of the terms of Composition of the Audit Committee Groups business, including the main reference for each committee is included in The members of the Audit Committee at 30 business and financial dynamics and the committee summaries below.
New Committee members also meet Jonathan Bloomer - Chairman Chartered some of the Groups staff, as appropriate.
Audit Committee Accountant appointed 18 September On-going training includes attendance at The Audit Committee is responsible for 2006 formal conferences, internal briefings and assisting the Board in discharging its Chris Barling appointed 26 August 2010 briefings by external advisers.
responsibilities for: Dharmash Mistry appointed 3 October 2011 Meetings monitoring of the financial reporting Stephen Robertson appointed 3 October The Audit Committee meets at least four process including the integrity of 2011 times each year but more frequently when www.
co. uk 38 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 required, and met four times during this undertaken a tender process for the Following a suitable tendering process, the financial year.
The attendance by each appointment of a new external auditor: Audit Committee has recommended to the director is set out in the table on page 40. made a recommendation to the board Board that PwC is appointed as new external The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, Chief regarding the appointment of a new auditor at the Annual General Meeting.
Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer external auditor: and Chief Executive Officer are routinely received reports from the Head of Internal Internal Audit Function invited to, and attend, the majority of Audit on the work undertaken by Internal The Audit Committee is required to assist meetings, although the Committee reserves Audit and management responses to the Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating the right to request any of these individuals proposals made in the audit reports to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans to withdraw.
The external auditor also issued by the function during the year: of the Internal Audit department.
Having attended all meetings, and periodically the reviewed the Groups Internal Capital conducted a review of the Internal Audit Committee also meets privately with the Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP department the Committee is happy with its external auditor and the Head of Internal report: resources and plans.
The Institute of Internal Audit.
reviewed the Groups Resolution and Auditors recommend that an external review Recovery Pack: and of the Internal Audit function is carried out Overview of the actions taken by the Audit reviewed its own effectiveness.
no less than every five years.
Our Internal Committee to discharge its duties Audit function had a satisfactory external During the 12 months to 30 June 2013 External Auditor review carried out in May 2012. the Audit Committee has undertaken the The Audit Committee is responsible following key responsibilities: for the development, implementation Remuneration Committee reviewed the financial statements in the and monitoring of the Groups policy The Remuneration Committee is 2012 reports and accounts and the interim on external audit.
The policy assigns responsible for the framework or broad report issued in February 2013.
As part oversight responsibility for monitoring the policy for the fair remuneration of the of this review the Committee received a independence, objectivity and compliance executive directors of the Company and its report from the external auditor on its with ethical and regulatory requirements subsidiaries as well as their performance audit of the annual reports and accounts to the Audit Committee, and day to day management.
The policy is determined and review of the interim report: responsibility to the Group Finance with due regard to the interests of the received updates from the Risk Director.
The policy states that the external Company and the shareholders.
The Committee and considered the output auditor is jointly responsible to the Board Committee makes recommendations from the Group-wide process used to and the Audit Committee and that the Audit to the Board.
No director plays a part identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: Committee is the primary contact.
in any discussion about his or her reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups own remuneration.
The Remuneration internal controls and disclosures made The Groups policy on external audit can be Committee meets at least twice per in the annual report and accounts on this found on the Groups website at www.
co. year and is governed by formal Terms of matter: uk.
It sets out the categories of non-audit Reference, which are reviewed annually.
reviewed and agreed the terms of services which the external auditor will engagement of the audit work to be and will not be allowed to provide to the The Remuneration Committee met five undertaken by the external auditor: Group, subject to fide minimis levels and times during this financial year.
The reviewed and updated the Use of Audit Committee Chairman approval.
The attendance by each director is set out in External Auditors policy: level of non-audit fees during 2013 were the table on page 40.
The Committee is considered a report from the external nil 2012: 35k.
Following feedback from chaired by Jonathan Bloomer and its other auditor on its observations of controls the AGM last year, the Use of External members at 30 June 2013 were Michael across the Group: Auditors policy has been tightened, such Evans, Chris Barling and Dharmash agreed the fees to be paid to the external that our external auditor may only be used Mistry.
None of the Committee has any auditor for its audit of the 2013 accounts for non-audit work where there are specific personal financial interest other than as and interim report and reviewed the circumstances which mean they are the shareholders, conflicts of interests arising confirmation of auditor independence: only firm able to provide a good service at from cross-directorships or day-to-day undertaken an evaluation of the an acceptable price.
involvement in running the business.
performance of the Internal Audit function and reviewed the level and The existing external auditor, Deloitte, has The Committees purpose is to: nature of non-audit activity performed by been in office since 2006, prior to the IPO in determine and recommend to the Board Internal Audit: 2007.
Recognising the requirement in the the remuneration policy for the executive reviewed the qualification and 2012 edition of the Code that the external Directors of the Company and of the experience of the Internal Audit audit tender contract should be put out subsidiary companies: department so that it can deliver an to tender at least every ten years and that ensure the level and structure of agreed programme of work: the tenure of current audit partner is four remuneration is designed to attract, undertaken an evaluation of the years, the Audit Committee determined that retain, and motivate the executive performance of the external auditor: this year was the right time to go to tender.
Directors needed to run the Company and www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 the Group: and whole Board and the appointment is the strategy as agreed by the Board and monitor the level and structure of responsibility of the whole Board following ensuring that day-to-day operations are remuneration for senior management.
conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
The performance measurement of the During the year the activities of the Directors and key members of senior Committee have included: The Executive Committee is chaired by the management and the determination of reviewing its terms of reference: Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his their annual remuneration packages reviewing the requirements for potential absence by Peter Hargreaves.
During the are undertaken by the Committee.
independent non-executive candidates: year the committee also comprised the The Committee also ensures that the commencing the recruitment process Chief Financial Officer, Tracey Taylor, and remuneration relationship between the for a new independent non-executive the following: Directors and senior employees of the director: and Nigel Bence Chief Operating Officer Company is appropriate and that the formulation of appropriate succession Alex Davies Director of Pensions remuneration policy complies with the plans.
Nick Marson Vantage and Broking FCA Remuneration Code.
Any exceptional Operations Director remuneration arrangements for senior In April 2013, the Committee commenced Ian Hunter Investment Marketing employees are advised to the Committee.
a search for a new non-executive director.
Director This search recognised that Jonathan David Davies IT Director The Nomination Committee Bloomer has been in office for nearly seven Theresa Barry Group Marketing Director The Nomination Committee leads the years and given that none of the other until October 2012 process for Board appointments, renon-executive directors have the necessary election and succession of directors and financial qualification to chair the Audit Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee the Chairman.
It is responsible for making Committee, it was prudent to appoint a Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are invited to recommendations to the Board concerning new director capable of taking on the role attend the Executive Committee.
the composition and skills of the Board of Chair of the Audit Committee in due including proposed appointees to the course.
The Committee determined the Biographies of the above are available Board, whether to fill any vacancies that search criteria to be used.
The recruitment on our website: www.
co. uk investormay arise or to change the number of Board consisted of a targeted mailing of some relations.
9,000 of our clients and this would be supplemented by contacting an internally The Executive Committee meets at least The Committee had been chaired by derived list of potential candidates quarterly but more frequently when Jonathan Bloomer until May 2013 when from the networks of directors and also required, and met four times during the Michael Evans was elected chairman.
recommendations from key contacts in current financial year.
The attendance by Jonathan Bloomer stood down as Chairman the accountancy profession.
This process each director is set out in the table below.
but remained a member of the Committee.
After two rounds The Committees other members at 30 June of interviews, a preferred candidate has Risk Committee 2013 were Chris Barling, Dharmash Mistry been selected and, subject to regulatory The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief and Stephen Robertson.
The Nomination clearance, will join the Board in due course.
Operating Officer and also comprises the Committee meets at least twice each year Chief Risk Officer, IT Director, and a nonand the Committee met three times during executive Director.
The Committee reports Other committees the year.
The attendance by each director back to the Board and the Audit Committee is set out in the table on page 40.
These committees form part of the on the management of the major risks Corporate Governance framework, but facing the Group as assessed against the We have a formal, rigorous and transparent are not formally appointed non-executive Groups Risk Appetite.
procedure for the appointment of new committees of the Board.
The two main directors to the Board.
The process involves Committees are the Executive Committee We also have a Treasury Committee, the Nomination Committee interviewing and the Risk Committee: which oversees changes to the treasury suitable candidates who are proposed by management policy, an Investment existing Board members, by an external Executive Committee Committee, which monitors the search company, or via searches performed The Board has delegated full authority to investments held in the HL multi-manager by the Company itself.
Consideration the Executive Committee subject to a list funds, as well as an Interest Rate will be given to ensure appointees have of matters which are reserved for decision Committee and an IT Steering Group.
enough time available to devote to the role by the full Board only.
In particular, the and that the balance of skills, knowledge Executive Committee is responsible to and experience on the Board will be the Chief Executive for developing and maintained.
When the Committee has monitoring every aspect of the Groups found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of business on a continuing basis, for the Committee will make a proposal to the developing and implementing business www.
co. uk 40 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee Remuneration Nomination Executive Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Directors Ian Gorham 5 5 - - - 4 4 Peter Hargreaves 5 5 - - - 4 4 Tracey Taylor 5 5 - - - 4 4 Michael Evans 5 5 - 5 5 3 3 - Jonathan Bloomer 5 5 5 5 5 5 3 3 - Chris Barling 5 5 5 5 5 5 3 3 - Dharmash Mistry 3 3 5 5 5 5 3 3 - Stephen Robertson 3 3 5 5 - 3 3 - Executive Committee 1 Theresa Barry - - - - 0 1 Nigel Bence - - - - 4 4 Alex Davies - - - - 4 4 Nick Marson - - - - 4 4 Ian Hunter - - - - 4 4 David Davies - - - - 3 4 Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, one additional meeting was held to discuss and approve the disposal of the Companys investment in Beringea LLC.
1 Attendance represents number of meetings prior to stepping down in October 2012.
Relations with shareholders We are committed to maintaining good Jonathan Bloomer, our Senior Independent All Directors made themselves available communications with our shareholders.
Non-Executive Director, was also available to meet shareholders at our AGM and We have a programme of communication to meet key investors.
they value the opportunity of welcoming with shareholders based on our financial individual shareholders and other investors reporting calendar including the interim Following dialogue with individual to communicate directly and address their and annual reports, Interim Management institutional shareholders, the Chairman, questions.
Statements, the AGM and the Investor Chief Executive and the Group Finance Relations section of the corporate website Director ensured the Board was fully To ensure compliance with the Code, at at www.
briefed on shareholders' views such all general meetings separate resolutions that any issues or concerns were fully are proposed on each discrete subject.
In addition to this, the CEO, Chief understood and considered by the Board.
Resolutions have been passed on a show Financial Officer and Chairman meet Analyst and broker briefings are regularly of hands, and proxy votes for, against and with institutional investors after results provided to the Board.
In addition, the withheld for each resolution are displayed announcements and upon request on an ad Groups brokers sought feedback from at the meeting.
Following the AGM, the hoc basis during the year.
They, together investors following the 2012 final and 2013 results of voting are published through a with the Company Secretary, also provide interim results, and this feedback was Regulatory Information Service and on our a point of contact for investors who wish to reported to the Board.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee Internal control framework Internal controls Through the monitoring processes set out below, the Board has conducted a review of Terms of External the effectiveness of the system of internal reference audit Organisational control during the year ended 30 June 2013.
Internal structure and Audit policies The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Group Group Risk and provide reasonable but not absolute Compliance Strategy assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against Internal control the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In framework that context, the review, in the opinion Group Management of the Board, did not indicate that the Finance Information system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
However, in Our values Risk Regulatory acknowledgement that the business and and culture Committee supervision and the risks it faces are continually evolving Remuneration monitoring policy and as part of a process of continuous improvement, steps are being taken to further embed internal controls and risk management into business operations.
Internal Control Framework The Board is responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and risk Organisational structure and policies wrong.
They can raise concerns on a management and for reviewing their The Board regularly reviews the Group's confidential basis, enabling proportionate effectiveness, the key features of which are organisational structure to seek to ensure and independent investigation to be outlined in the chart above and detailed that clearly defined lines of responsibility undertaken.
below: exist, with appropriate delegation of authority.
Periodic reviews take place We thoroughly investigate any allegations Terms of Reference to ensure that staff of the right calibre of misconduct and irregularity and consider The Board operates within clearly defined are employed, particularly in key roles.
the implications for our control environment.
terms of reference, and it reserves certain Roles and responsibilities are clearly Due to the nature of our business, we are matters for its own consideration and communicated to each member of staff subject to attempted fraud on a regular decision.
It has established appropriate within their Apportionment forms.
Strict processes and controls mean committees to oversee control activities.
forms are reviewed annually and updated if that we are able to identify attacks and deal These committees also have clearly necessary.
with them appropriately on a timely basis.
The Board and We are continually looking at ways of making Committee processes are fundamental to The Board regularly reviews the Group's our clients transactions with us more secure the effectiveness of our internal controls.
The Group's Treasury function and have dedicated resource within the operates within a well-defined policy business whose focus is on managing fraud Our business performance is monitored designed to manage the Group's liquidity risk.
closely by the Board and senior arrangements and to manage its exposure management, in particular monitoring of: to risks, such as interest rate risk and Group Risk Strategy progress towards strategic objectives: counterparty risk.
The Group Risk Strategy requires senior financial performance, within a managers to identify, evaluate and manage framework including forecasting, Our public interest disclosure risks in their business units.
Regular financial reporting, reviewing variances Whistleblowing policy encourages meetings are held between department against plan and taking appropriate employees to raise concerns about managers and the Chief Risk Officer to management action: and anything that they suspect is fraudulent, ensure that risk management remains risk management processes.
corrupt, dangerous or seriously high on the agenda of the business.
co. uk 42 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Target dates for resolution of issues are putting the client first, Hargreaves continually monitored.
A summary of Lansdown second and your department significant risks is provided within the third.
This engenders service levels which Business Review.
many other companies can only aspire to and ensures that the requirements of our Risk management processes within the clients are foremost in our employees Group accord with the Internal Control: decision making process.
Guidance to Directors formerly the Turnbull guidance, and are supported by Group Finance reports from the Internal Audit function The Group Finance department manages which include focus on significant risks our financial reporting processes to faced by the Company.
ensure the information which enables our Board to discharge its responsibilities is Management information provided on a timely basis.
It ensures cost Detailed packs of key information controls are in place and that the business are circulated monthly to our senior efficiently manages its resources.
It also management and Non-executive Directors.
produces a financial forecast based on This includes key financial and operational the strategic and operational plans of the performance indicators.
business which is continuously reviewed to determine the likely year-end outcome Risk Committee and is used to plan and review regulatory The Risk Committee reports to the capital requirements.
Board and the Audit Committee on the management of the major risks facing the Group Compliance Group as assessed against the Groups Risk Our Compliance function manages Appetite.
relationships with the Group's key regulators alongside identifying major Remuneration policy compliance and regulatory risks.
Our Risk management is embedded into the Money Laundering Reporting Officer MLRO Apportionment Forms of every employee forms part of the Compliance team and is and awareness and mitigation of the risks responsible for ensuring we have suitable faced by the Company are key factors anti-money laundering AML procedures used to evaluate individual performance.
The MLRO is also responsible This policy creates an environment which for ensuring adequate AML training for all ensures excessive risk taking is not staff.
The MLRO specifically considers the rewarded.
risk of loss through financial crime and the controls in place to mitigate the risk of such Employees also have the opportunity to loss.
invest in regular Save As You Earn share schemes as we believe that nothing will Internal Audit better encourage employees to look after Our Internal Audit function reports to the the long-term future of the Company than Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key being shareholders themselves.
exceptional performance by key employees and senior managers will be rewarded with External audit and regulatory supervision the grant of executive share awards which The majority of the activities of the Group, we believe both incentivises and assists including the systems of business control, retention of key members of staff.
are subject to supervision by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Group is required on Our values and culture a regular basis to submit detailed prudential Any system of internal control is dependent and statistical returns covering all areas of on the people operating it.
Our Culture its business and meets regularly with its defines what we expect from our people.
supervisors, conducting the relationship in We pride ourselves on the culture which an open and constructive manner.
We have a onefirm mentality which helps everyone take In addition to the above, the Audit responsibility for the whole of the business.
Committee also receives reports from our We have a saying success comes from external auditor.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Directors report - other information The Directors report and business review Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Share Capital Pages 1 to 44 inclusive of this Annual report Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown The Companys shares are listed on the consist of a Directors report and business Advisory Services Limited, are authorised main market of the London Stock Exchange.
review that has been drawn up and presented and regulated by the Financial Conduct The Companys authorised and issued in accordance with, and in reliance on, Authority.
share capital during the year and as at 30 English company law.
The liabilities of the June 2013 is shown in note 21.
The ordinary Directors in connection with that Directors Risk Management shares rank pari passu in all respects.
Save report and business review shall be subject Details of the Groups policy on risk as agreed at the Annual General Meeting of to the limitations and restrictions provided by management has been made in note 27 the shareholders, the ordinary shares have the Companies Act 2006. of the notes to the consolidated financial pre-emption rights in respect of any future statements related to various financial issues of ordinary shares to the extent Forward-looking statements instruments and exposure of the Group to conferred by Section 561 of the Companies The Directors report and business review is financial, market, liquidity and credit risk.
prepared for the members of the Company and should not be relied upon by any other Directors Interests party or for any other purpose.
Where During the period covered by this report, no director had any material interest in a contract the Directors report and business review to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party other than their includes forward-looking statements, these own service contract, requiring disclosure under the requirements of the Companies Act are made by the Directors in good faith 2006 except in respect of the rental of the office premises at Kendal House as disclosed in based on the information available to them note 26 to the financial statements.
at the time of their approval of this report.
Consequently such statements should be The directors who held office at 30 June 2013 had the following interests including treated with caution due to the inherent beneficial interests in the shares of the Company.
These interests are exclusive of any uncertainties, including both economic interests under Share Options.
Details of Share Options which have been granted to and business risk factors, underlying directors as at the date of this report pursuant to employee share schemes are set out in such forward-looking statements and the Directors Remuneration report.
There have been no changes to the directors interests information.
in the shares of the Company since the year-end.
Number and % of Number and % of Principal Group Activities Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 30 June 2013 at 30 June 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent Non-executive directors company of a group of companies which offers a range of investment products, J Bloomer 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% investment services, financial planning and C Barling - - advice to private investors and advisory M Evans 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% services to companies in respect of group 1 S Lansdown - 95,500,000 20.13% pension schemes.
Further details of the D Mistry 5,308 0.01% 5,308 0.01% business activities are contained in the S Robertson 16,914 0.01% 11,219 0.01% Business Review on pages 16 to 20.
Executive directors The subsidiary undertakings of the Group I Gorham 282,628 0.06% - during the year are listed in note 15 to P Hargreaves 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 32.20% the financial statements.
The principal T Taylor 745,641 0.16% 745,641 0.16% trading subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Total 153,799,347 32.43% 249,011,024 52.50% Asset Management Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited, 1 S Lansdown was no longer a non-executive director at 30 June 2013 and so his shareholding for the purposes of Directors Interests is shown as nil.
co. uk 44 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Substantial Shareholdings Directors mitigate these risks in the current As at the date of this report, the Company has not been notified of any changes in economic climate.
The Groups business shareholdings amounting to more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company, activities, financial position, cash flows, other than the directors interests which are set out in the table above and the following liquidity position, together with the factors shareholdings: likely to affect its future development, Number and % of performance and position are set out in Interested Party Date of notification Ordinary shares the Business Review.
In addition, note 27 Adam Norris 7 December 2012 13,708,675 3.00% to the Financial Statements includes the Stephen Lansdown 24 April 2013 90,000,000 18.97% Groups policy on capital management, its exposure to financial risks and its policies BlackRock, Inc 25 April 2013 25,552,898 5.39% and processes to manage those risks.
Beneficial owners of shares with allotment of shares up to a maximum The Group maintains on-going forecasts information rights nominal amount of 202,725.50, which that indicate profitability in 2013 14 Beneficial owners of shares who have been represented the difference between the and beyond.
Stress test scenarios are nominated by the registered holder of those Companys authorised and issued share undertaken, the outcomes of which show shares to receive information rights under capital at 10 September 2013.
The directors that the Group has adequate capital section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are do not have any present intention of resources for the foreseeable future even in required to direct all communications to exercising such authority and the authority extreme adverse economic conditions.
The the registered holder of their shares rather will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM Groups business is highly cash generative than to the Companys registrar, Equiniti after the passing of the proposed resolution.
with a low working capital requirement: Registrars, or to the Group directly.
indeed, the forecast cash flows show that ii Directors authority to allot shares and the Group will remain highly liquid in the Model Code waiver of pre-emption rights: Resolutions forthcoming financial year.
The Company has its own internal dealing are to be proposed as special business at rules which extend the FCA Listing Rules the AGM on 25 October 2013 to enable the After reviewing the Groups financial Model Code provisions to all employees.
directors to allot unissued shares and, forecasts including an assessment of subject to the limits therein contained, regulatory and working capital, the Supplier Payment Policy to allot shares for cash other than to Directors are confident that the Company The Companys policy, which is also existing shareholders in proportion to and the Group have adequate financial applied by the Group, is to settle terms their shareholdings.
resources available to continue in of payment with suppliers when agreeing operational existence for the foreseeable the terms of each transaction, ensure that The resolution enabling the directors to allot future.
The going concern basis has suppliers are made aware of the terms shares other than to existing shareholders in continued to be adopted in the preparation of payment and abide by the terms of proportion to their shareholdings is limited of the financial statements.
The Company has signed up to the allotment of shares up to a maximum to the Prompt Payment Code which is nominal value of 94,863.72, which Disclosure of information to auditor designed to promote best practice between represents 5% of the total ordinary share Each of the persons who is a director at organisations and their suppliers.
Trade capital in issue as at 10 September 2013. the date of approval of this annual report creditors of the Group at 30 June 2013 were confirms that: equivalent to 18 2012: 25 days purchases, Both of these resolutions seek authorities so far as the director is aware, there is no based on the average daily amount which are in accordance with the current relevant audit information of which the invoiced by suppliers during the year.
guidelines issued by the Investment Company's auditor is unaware: and Committees of the Association of British the director has taken all the steps that Annual General Meeting Insurers and the National Association of they ought to have taken as a director, At the Annual General Meeting on 25 Pension Funds.
in order to make themselves aware of October 2013, the following two items of any relevant audit information and to special business will be tabled: PwC has expressed their willingness to establish that the Company's auditor is i Authority to purchase own shares: The accept appointment as auditor and a aware of that information.
Company was granted authority at the resolution to appoint them will be proposed AGM in 2012 to purchase its own shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This confirmation is given and should be up to an aggregate value of 10% of the interpreted in accordance with the provisions issued nominal capital.
This authority Going concern of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. expires at this years AGM and a special The Directors have assessed, in the light resolution will be proposed for its of current and anticipated economic By order of the Board renewal.
conditions, the Groups ability to continue Judy Matthews as a going concern.
The principal risks that Company Secretary The resolution enabling directors to allot the Group is challenged with have been 10 September 2013 unissued shares will be limited to the set out on page 25 along with how the www.
