AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all the independent non-executive Directors, chaired by Mr DCP McDougall.
Its authority and duties are defined within its written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company and on the Managers website: www.
Role and duties Role and duties The Committees responsibilities, which were discharged during the year, include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of their engagement: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor: reviewing the arrangements in place within HIML whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: and considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
Risk management, internal control and internal audit The extensive array of internal controls adopted by the Company are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
The board as a whole is responsible for the effectiveness of internal control mechanisms but it is informed by more specific work carried out by the Audit Committee.
External auditors assessing effectiveness One of the most important functions of the Committee is to monitor the independence and objectivity of the auditors, their performance and effectiveness.
The Committee achieves this by meeting at least annually with the audit partner to discuss that years audit.
Part of that process requires the auditor to give the Committee an assessment of how the audit team identifies and manages the threats to its independence.
The Committee receives confirmation from the auditor that it has complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on independence.
The Committee does not believe that there has been any impairment to the auditors independence.
The Committee examines in detail the scope of the audit, ensuring that the auditors objectives have met the Committees expectations, along with key audit and accounting matters considered that year.
The principal findings of the audit are discussed and challenged, particularly in areas where management judgement has been required.
The Committee will give the auditor an opportunity to comment privately on the quality and standard of the Managers and Administrators performance generally and during the audit.
Similarly, the Committee will seek the views of the Manager and Administrator on the effectiveness and performance of the audit team.
Non-audit services There is not often a need for non-audit services to be provided by the auditor.
The Committees policy is that non-audit work should be limited to those matters where the external auditor is most appropriately placed to carry out the work, unless there is a conflict of interest.
Audit tendering Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys auditor since 1994.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner and staff and level of service provided, the Committee remains satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and accordingly has recommended that they be reappointed at the forthcoming AGM.
The audit partner responsible for the audit must be rotated at least every five years and the current audit partner assumed the role in 2012.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee has no current plans to put the audit to tender, but is mindful of the new Code provision that FTSE 350 companies should aim to tender their audit contract at least every ten years.
Significant financial issues relating to the 2013 financial statements The Code requires us to describe any significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements and how those issues were addressed.
There were no significant issues.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 29 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 29 05 03 2014 09:01 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued One matter that arose during the course of the audit was as follows.
The Manager makes an estimate of the value of the unlisted stocks in the investment portfolio which the Board reviews and agrees.
It is a part of the auditors function to test whether those valuations meet the relevant accounting standards.
The Committee has received reports from the Manager, with which it is satisfied, describing the basis for assumptions used and has discussed and agreed these with the auditor.
Summary Following a detailed review of the financial statements and discussions with the Investment Manager, Administrator, Company Secretary and Auditor, the Committee has concluded that the financial statements themselves, and the annual report as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and that conclusion has been reported to the Board.
Douglas McDougall Chairman, Audit Committee 25 February 2014 30 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
