CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the principles of the September 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied throughout the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code, except where indicated below.
The Association of Investment Companies has published its own Code of Corporate Governance updated in February 2013 which provides a framework of best practice for investment companies which can be found at www.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, approval of the financial statements, investment policy, borrowings, gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He reviews channels for the provision of information with the company secretary at least once a year.
The executive responsibilities for investment management and administration have been delegated to HIML and The Bank of New York Mellon respectively, and in the context of a Board comprising entirely non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr DCP McDougall is the senior independent director.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience which enable it to provide effective leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 4.
Following the appointment of Dr T J Black on 1 May 2013, the Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Mr T Curtis will not stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM, so there will be four directors thereafter.
All Directors will retire at the AGM and other than Tim Curtis offer themselves for re-election or in the case of Tom Black, election, this being the first AGM since he was appointed.
The Board has reviewed the performance of all Directors.
In each case, their performance continues to be effective and they remain committed to the Company.
Their contribution to the Board is valued highly and for the relevant Directors, the Board recommends their election or re-election to shareholders.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Terms of appointment The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next AGM.
All Directors retire annually and if appropriate, offer themselves for re-election.
Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Manager and free of any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr DCP McDougall has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for company boards and review the Board composition annually.
However, the Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded that Mr McDougall continues to be independent in character and judgement and his skills and experience continue to be a benefit to the Board.
Meetings There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, revenue budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 25 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 25 05 03 2014 09:01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Board Audit Nomination Number of meetings 8 2 2 Julian Cazalet 8 2 2 Tom Black appointed 1 May 2013 3 1 1 Tim Curtis 8 2 2 Douglas McDougall 8 2 2 Stewart Newton 8 2 2 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of all the Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should be recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available on request and on the Managers website: www.
The Committee considers matters of diversity and gender when nominating new candidates for appointment.
Appointments are made on merit irrespective of race, colour, religion and gender.
The Committee therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
Performance evaluation The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees, after inviting each Director and the Chairman to consider and respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr DCP McDougall.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, training and development requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remain committed to the Company.
Notwithstanding Code provisions, the Board currently considers that the use of external consultants to facilitate this evaluation is unlikely to be a significant benefit to the process, though the option to do so is kept under review.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
Induction and training Training for new Directors is tailored to the particular circumstances of the individual appointee.
Regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Remuneration As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 35.
Internal controls and risk management The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal controls systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the year under review.
The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and investment management, have been delegated to HIML, the company secretary and BNYM.
The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, including the 26 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 26 05 03 2014 09:01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls and risk management have also been delegated to HIML.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by HIML and BNYM of their obligations.
The Manager has a compliance function in accordance with Financial Conduct Authority regulations.
The Managers compliance function provides the Board with a report on its monitoring procedures on a regular basis.
The Baillie Gifford & Co Heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk also provided the Board with regular reports on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes as they relate to the secretarial and administrative function.
In addition, Baillie Gifford & Co conducted an annual review of its own system of internal controls which is documented within an internal controls report which has been designed to comply with Technical Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made available to Third Parties and ISAE 3402.
This report is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors.
A copy of the internal controls report was submitted to the Board.
Following the resignation of Baillie Gifford & Co as Administrator from 31 October and the appointment of BNYM in its place, the board will ensure that similar assurances will be obtained from BNYM.
The Companys investments are segregated from the investment and administration functions through the appointment of BNYM as independent custodian of the Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these risks.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this report.
Internal audit The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit function in place within the Manager and the Administrator provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
Accountability and audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the financial statements are set out on pages 36 to 38.
Audit Committee A separate Audit Committee report appears at page 29.
Relations with shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Manager meets regularly with larger shareholders and reports to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman or any other Director may do so by writing to him at the registered office of the Company which is shown on page 4.
The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published on the Managers website, www.
com, subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the AGM is at least twenty working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company from the Managers website.
AGM At the AGM of the Company to be held on 22 April 2014 the following resolution will be proposed as special business.
Authority to purchase the Companys Ordinary shares At the Companys AGM held on 23 April 2013 the Company was authorised to purchase up to 11,814,300 of the Companys Ordinary shares 14.99% of its Ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
During the year to 31 December 2013 the Company bought back 1,643,737 Ordinary shares nominal value 410,934 which comprised 2.0% of the issued share capital at 1 January 2013 on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The Board continues to believe that the ability of the Company to purchase its own Ordinary shares in the market will potentially benefit all shareholders of the Company.
The repurchase of Ordinary shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV should enhance the NAV per Ordinary share of the remaining shares and may also enable the Company to address more effectively any imbalance between supply and demand for the Companys Ordinary shares.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 27 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
indd 27 05 03 2014 09:01 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Accordingly, the Directors are again recommending in Resolution 10 at the 2014 AGM that this authority to purchase the Companys own Ordinary shares should be renewed and should now expire at the Companys AGM to be held in 2015.
Authority will be sought to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution the maximum permitted under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority at a price that is not less than 25p per share the nominal value of each share and must not exceed the higher of a 5% above the average closing price as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase and b the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The full text of the authority being sought can be found in Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM.
The decision as to whether the Company repurchases any shares will be at the absolute discretion of the Board and will only be considered when it is in the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
It is the intention that purchases will only be made at a discount to net asset value.
Recommendation The Directors unanimously recommend all holders to vote in favour of all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
Summary statement of compliance The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by the disclosures made in the foregoing, the Company has complied throughout 2013 with all of the applicable requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code save that the chairman is a member of the Audit Committee and the Board has not commissioned an external board review.
By order of the Board Julian Cazalet Chairman 25 February 2014 28 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
