Corporate Governance Introduction The Board The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
The Board Following the appointment of two new directors with effect from has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it 1 May 2013 the Board currently consists of six non-executive believes is appropriate for an investment company.
In accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board non-executives are independent of the Investment Adviser.
believes in providing as much transparency for investors as is reasonably possible.
The Chairman, Mr Picken, met the independence criteria of the AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has continued to meet this AIC condition throughout his term of service.
Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance in Principle 1, the The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Board has a Senior Independent Director, Mr Hallam, who was Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the principles appointed as Senior Independent Director on 11 February 2010. and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the Being non-executive Directors, no Director has a service contract AIC Code and has decided to follow the AICs Corporate with the Company.
Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide dated October 2010.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide were updated in The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least one third February 2013 to take into account the newly issued UK Corporate of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If Governance Code, and the Company will use this revised Code for the their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest current financial year to March 2014. to, but not exceeding, one third, shall retire from office.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the AIC Code, all six Directors intend On 22 January 2013, the Financial Reporting Council provided the AIC to retire and offer themselves for election or re-election at the with an updated endorsement letter to cover the latest edition of the forthcoming AGM in July.
The endorsement confirms that the current AIC Code fully meets, for investment company boards, their obligations in relation The Board believes that long serving Directors should not be to the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the automatically prevented from forming part of an independent Listing Rules.
majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
In accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, if a Director has served more The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC than nine years, the Board will consider the issue of independence Code October 2010 and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and Governance Code, except as set out below.
will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to As the Company was formed in 2006 no Director has yet served for the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and nine years or more.
A Director who retires at an annual general the need for an internal audit function.
meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are Following the appointment of the two new directors, the Board not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally believes that the balance of skills, gender, experience and managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys dayknowledge, coupled with the mixed length of service, provides for a to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to sound base from which the interests of investors will be served to a third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, high standard.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board has chosen not to adopt a definitive policy with quantitative targets for board diversity.
However, gender, knowledge, Guernsey Regulatory Environment skills, experience, residency and governance credentials are all On 30 September 2011 the Guernsey Financial Services Commission considered by the Nominations Committee when recommending the Commission issued the Finance Sector Code of Corporate appointments to the Board and in formulating succession plans.
The Code comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate practice against which The Board recommends the re-election of each Director and shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess the supporting biographies, including length of service, are disclosed on governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
pages 41 to 42 of this annual report, together with a list of other public company directorships for each Director.
The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code of Corporate Governance are also deemed to meet this code.
The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 47 Corporate Governance continued The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2013 is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 4122 Meetings Attended: G Picken 4 N A 122 J Hallam 4 4122 S Evans 4 4122 C Russell 4 4122 During the year a further 13 ad hoc Board Committee meetings were Performance Evaluation held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative nature As noted in last years report, the Board engaged Trust Associates in and these were attended by those directors available and outside November 2011 to conduct an external evaluation of the Board in the UK at the time.
In addition, there were four meetings to discuss relation to its skills and workings in accordance with Principle 7 of and approve the New Ordinary Shares issue which was launched in the AIC Code.
The results of this evaluation process were presented February and completed in March 2013. to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed that the composition of the Board and its Committees reflected a suitable mix As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of experience of skills and experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes Committees were functioning effectively.
to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The two new Directors appointed to the Board have Given the growth in size of the Groups investment portfolio over the already undertaken an induction process and will be available to last 2 years, the Board decided that it would be in shareholders best meet Shareholders upon request.
interests to recruit additional directors to strengthen the Board further by adding appropriate skills and experience, and to facilitate The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and succession planning.
In the autumn of 2012 it engaged Trust agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in Associates to conduct a search for suitable candidates.
advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they consider This process involved: appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of Agreeing a set of search criteria in relation to skills, knowledge, interest prior to Board discussion.
and residency that were appropriate for both strengthening the Board and succession planning: The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy with regard Creating a long-list of potential candidates with some names to market conditions and feedback from shareholders.
The supplied by the Investment Adviser : investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys latest The Nomination Committee reviewing and agreeing which prospectus, is reviewed regularly with the Investment Adviser and candidates should be approached: during the year, there was also a Board meeting in September 2012 dedicated to this purpose.
Trust Associates contacting preferred candidates and conducting screening interviews: The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment The Nomination Committee shortlisting candidates for further performance and associated matters such as marketing investor interview, with one or more of the Directors being present: relations, risk management, gearing, general administration and Each candidate being given the opportunity to meet the compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
Investment Adviser: After deliberation, and sometimes a second interview, the final candidates being chosen by the Nomination Committee for appointment by the Board.
48 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 This process took four months to complete.
In April 2013, the Delegation of Responsibilities Company announced the appointment of two new Directors, Susie The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility.
Farnon and Ian Russell, whose summary biographic details are on pages 41 and 42.
The day-to-day administration of the Company has been delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as Company As part of a programme of training, and for good governance, all of Secretary and Administrator.
the Directors of the Board, including the two new Directors, have undertaken formal anti-money laundering and anti-bribery training The Investment Adviser has two roles, Adviser to the Company and during the last 12 months.
Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the Groups underlying investments.
The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure and independence of each Director on an annual basis.
The annual The role of Adviser includes reporting on the performance of the evaluation for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been completed by investment portfolio, preparing the semi-annual valuations, the the Chairman and took the form of one to one interviews with each statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, Director holding office in the year.
For the evaluation of the presenting results and information to shareholders, coordinating all Chairman, the Senior Independent Director discussed the results of service providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice a questionnaire with the Chairman following consultation with the and feedback.
The role of Operator includes managing the partnership and taking The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day Committees reflected a suitable mix of skills and experience, and management of the Groups investment portfolio, the Groups debt that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees functioned effectively facilities, swap arrangements, and the sourcing of new investments.
Members of the Investment Advisers asset management team are appointed as directors of the Groups project companies and as part of their role in actively managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the Investment Advisers investment committee for consideration and determination.
Committees of the Board The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, and a Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March 2013 are as follows: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Members Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr J Hallam Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Mr G Picken Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Mrs Susie Farnon and Mr Ian Russell were appointed to the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Management Engagement Committee at the Board Meeting held on 15 May 2013.
Audit Committee The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities The Audit Committee has been in operation throughout the year.
The include reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the valuation of Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J Hallam, operates within clearly the Groups investment portfolio, the system of internal controls, and defined terms of reference and comprises all the Directors except for the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their Mr G Picken.
It met four times in the year to 31 March 2013. remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which the auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services and the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 49 Corporate Governance continued The main duties of the Audit Committee are: In particular the Audit Committee considered in detail the reduction of 0.2% in the discount rate applied in the valuation.
The Investment giving full consideration and recommending to the Board for Adviser explained this was as a consequence of increased approval the contents of the half yearly and annual financial competition in the secondary market for social and transportation statements and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: infrastructure assets, which had been seen during bidding and general market activity.
This was also corroborated by the third party reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence valuation expert.
and objectivity of the external auditors: reviewing the draft valuation of the Groups investments prepared The auditor explained the results of their review of the valuations, by the investment Adviser, receiving an independent review of the including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow valuation from a third party expert and making a recommendation projections, the economic assumptions and discount rates.
On the to the Board on the valuation of the Groups investments: basis of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed that reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the audit, were material in the context of the financial statements as a whole.
audit related and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors and the terms of their engagement: In order to provide further assurance regarding the valuation, the Company has engaged a third party audit firm to undertake a review reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the of the control environment underpinning the Investment Advisers following financial year: valuation process.
The Audit Committee recommended to the board reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting the scope and terms of engagement of the third party audit firm.
The policies: and report produced and reviewed in detail by the Audit Committee ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal control showed that there was a robust control environment supporting systems.
The external auditors and the third party valuation expert are invited Appointment of the External Auditors to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the annual and KPMG has been the external auditor for the HICL group since the interim accounts are considered and at which they have the company listed on the London Stock Exchange in March 2006.
The opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of lead audit partner has changed once, in 2010, to Mr Stormonth, in the Investment Adviser being present.
accordance with normal audit partner rotation arrangements.
After discussion with both the Investment Adviser and the external The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate auditor, the Audit Committee determined that the key risk of Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council misstatement of the Groups financial statements related to the FRC in September 2012 and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance valuation of investments and finance receivables at fair value issued in February 2013, in particular, the recommendation in each, to through profit and loss, in the context of the judgements necessary put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
to evaluate current market values.
Consequently, the committee has considered its tendering arrangements and intends to tender the audit function in 2015 As outlined in Note 4 to the financial statements, the total carrying towards the conclusion of Mr Stormonths period in office or earlier if value of financial assets at fair value at 31 March 2013 was it has cause to do so.
Market quotations are not available for these financial assets such that their valuation is undertaken using a discounted The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee cash flow methodology.
This requires a series of material judgements which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors may to be made as further explained in Note 3 to the financial statements.
be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and The valuation process and methodology were discussed with the the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular Investment Adviser during the year and with the auditor at the time regard to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
In at which the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Group audit plan, when the auditor reviewed the half year interim Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting financial statements in November 2012 and also at the conclusion of services provided by the external auditors do not conflict with their the audit of the financial statements.
The Investment Adviser carries statutory audit responsibilities.
out a valuation semi-annually and provides a detailed valuation report to the Company.
Advisory and or consulting services generally only covers reviews of interim financial statements, tax compliance and capital raising The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Advisers report, in work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor outside of conjunction with a report and opinion on the valuation from a third these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate in any year party valuation expert.
The Investment Adviser confirmed to the require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
Audit Committee that the valuation methodology had been applied The external auditor may not undertake any work for the Company in consistently during the year and that neither the auditors nor the respect of the following matters preparation of the financial third party valuation experts work had identified any errors or statements, valuations used in financial statements, provision of inconsistencies that were material in the context of the financial investment advice, taking management decisions or advocacy work statements as a whole.
50 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost The Nomination Committee has met twice in the year to 31 March effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, 2013 with a subsequent meeting in April in relation to recruitment with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Total fees paid and, as highlighted above, recommended the recruitment of two amounted to 0.7m for the year ended 31 March 2013 of which additional directors to the Board in order to enhance the current 0.3m related to audit and audit related services to the Group, composition of the Board and facilitate succession planning.
0.2m related to audit of the Groups project subsidiaries and other audit related services, and 0.2m was in respect of taxation advisory Remuneration Committee and non-audit services.
The terms of reference of the Committee are to determine and agree the Board policy for the remuneration of the directors of the Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers KPMG Company, including the approval of any ad-hoc payments in respect Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company and that of additional corporate work required e. g. for the work involved with the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the the New Ordinary Shares issue.
objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Remuneration Policy To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external The Remuneration Committee has received independent professional auditors, the audit committee considered: advice in respect of their roles, responsibilities and fees.
changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the current year: All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such there are: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements No service contracts with the Company: to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and No long-term incentive schemes: the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
No options or similar performance incentives.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee reviewed: The Directors remuneration shall: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and reflect the responsibility, experience, time commitment and variations from it: position on the Board: reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the allow the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee to be course of the audit: and remunerated in excess of the remaining board members to reflect their increased roles of responsibility and accountability: feedback from the Investment Adviser evaluating the performance of the audit team.
be paid quarterly in arrears: include remuneration for additional, specific corporate work The audit committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness and which shall be carefully considered and only become due and independence as auditor having considered the degree of diligence payable on completion of that work: and and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
As such, the be reviewed by an independent professional consultant with committee has not considered it necessary this year to conduct a experience of Investment Companies and their fee structures, at tender process for the appointment of its auditors.
Having carried least every three years.
out the review described above and having satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent and effective, the audit The Remuneration Committee met twice during the period to committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be 31 March 2013 to consider the remuneration of the new directors as reappointed as auditor for the year ending 31 March 2014. well as for all the directors for the year to 31 March 2014.
Nomination Committee The Committee has recommended that the fees are increased for the The main terms of reference of the Committee are: coming year in line with the Trust Associates previous recommendation and the Board has approved this increase in annual regularly review the structure, size and composition required of fees payable as set out in the Directors Report.
The Board has the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard decided to seek shareholder approval on these fees at the AGM in to any changes including skills, knowledge and experience in July 2013. accordance with Principle 6 of the AIC Code : give full consideration to succession planning for directors taking Management Engagement Committee into account the challenges and opportunities facing the The terms of reference of this committee are to review the Company: and relationships between the Company and its main service providers, be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval including their performance, compliance with their contracts, and of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from the Committees review they arise.
are given to the Board for consideration and action.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2013 51 Corporate Governance continued The Management Engagement Committee met once in the year to As noted on page 4, the Board has decided for good governance to 31 March 2013, and reviewed the performance of the key service engage a third-party assurance provider to conduct a review of the providers to the Group and the Company.
No material weaknesses Companys valuation process, as performed by the Investment were identified, some recommendations were conveyed to certain Adviser, as this involves a number of procedures and judgements, providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the which might benefit from exceptional scrutiny.
current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality services and advice to the Company and the Group.
The Board intends to consider on a periodic basis whether further third party assurance is appropriate but only in a specific context.
All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the Company Secretary upon request.
In addition, the Board has decided The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and that they should be added to the Companys website and this updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow the process is underway.
Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
Internal Controls The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control Reports on these performance measures, coupled with cash and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has therefore projections and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular each quarterly meeting.
needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Relations with shareholders The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control AIC Code Principle 19 through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment with each activity and the controls employed to minimise and Adviser produces a quarterly factsheet which is available on the mitigate those risks.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for Likelihood and 1 to Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make 5 for Impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a total themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal score.
Mitigation is considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this leads to shareholders and key sector analysts.
a residual risk rating being derived.
The matrix is updated quarterly and the Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular material changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market or is being taken.
By their nature, these procedures will provide a commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Companys Broker, and the Companys Financial PR agency.
By way of assisting shareholders to understand the portfolio of At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups investments, we have previously held site visits and case studies are investment performance in comparison to its stated objective and it available from the Companys website www.
com reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to the agreed In addition, the Chairman has held one on one meetings with investment policy and approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline shareholders in London and Edinburgh during the course of the year, of new potential opportunities is considered and the prices paid for facilitated by the Companys Broker.
It is the Boards intention to new or incremental investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
continue to meet with Shareholders periodically so that open two-way communication on the development of the Company is maintained.
Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year and matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
normally holds an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey in July.
Shareholders receive written communications from the Company The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and it either with documents enclosed or to notify them of new information has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the available to view on the Companys website.
Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own internal review processes, and the work carried out by the Groups external Results of Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of announced by the Company promptly after the relevant meeting.
internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is Additionally, the Interim Management Statements and the current maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Group is information provided to eligible Shareholders on an ongoing basis therefore considered unnecessary.
through the Companys website assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the The Board recognises that these control systems can only be Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and Shareholders may contact any of the Directors via the Company relies on the operating controls established by both the Company Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 108 of the report Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
