HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Corporate governance codes Board Committee Group Management Board Corporate governance codes in the Listing Rules of the FCA and with The Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate Listed Issuers Hong Kong Model Code set out in governance.
HSBC has complied during 2013 the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The with the applicable code provisions of: i The UK Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has Reporting Council: and ii the Hong Kong granted certain waivers from strict compliance with Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 the Hong Kong Model Code.
The waivers granted to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save primarily take into account accepted practices in the that the Group Risk Committee is responsible UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
for the oversight of internal control other than Following specific enquiry, each Director has internal control over financial reporting and confirmed that he or she has complied with the risk management systems Hong Kong Corporate code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Governance Code provision C. 3.3 paragraphs f, securities throughout the year, save that, on g and h. If there were no Group Risk Committee, 10 January 2013, an independent non-executive these matters would be the responsibility of the Director disposed of an interest as beneficial owner Group Audit Committee.
The UK Corporate in 500 units of euro-denominated preferred securities Governance Code is available at www.
uk of 1,000 each issued by HSBC Capital Funding and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code is Euro 2 L. P. before giving notification.
Directors have since been reminded of their The Board has adopted a code of conduct for obligations under the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors.
transactions in HSBC Group Securities.
The code of conduct complies with The Model Code 346
