HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Conduct and Values Committee Chairmans Committee Internal control Procedures 7.
Work on all new and redesigned buildings costing over The Chairmans Committee, established by US$10m in our portfolio of 7,500 buildings will be done resolution of the Board in November 2013, has to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design the power to act on behalf of the Board between LEED certification standards.
scheduled Board meetings to facilitate ad hoc 8.
We aim to reduce annual energy consumption per employee by 1MWh.
unforeseen business requiring urgent Board 9.
We will reduce paper usage, ensure it comes from approval.
sustainable sources, and encourage paperless banking for all retail and commercial customers.
We continue to promote alternatives to travel, reducing travel carbon emissions per employee.
Procedures Further details on our progress with achieving our The Directors are responsible for maintaining and sustainability operations programme will be published in our Sustainability Report 2013 on 23 May 2014. reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems and for determining the Further information on environmental, social nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing and community obligations can be found on page 34. to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations Sustainability risk under the Handbook of Rules and Guidance issued by the FCA and PRA, procedures have Our approach to managing sustainability risk is been designed for safeguarding assets against detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 297. unauthorised use or disposal: for maintaining proper accounting records: and for ensuring the reliability Conduct & Values Committee and usefulness of financial information used within 1 Members Rachel Lomax Chairman the business or for publication.
These procedures can Laura Cha only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Sir Jonathan Evans against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
1 All members appointed on 17 January 2014.
These procedures are designed to provide effective internal control within HSBC and accord The Conduct & Values Committee, established by with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance for resolution of the Board in January 2014, will focus directors issued in its revised form in 2005 and on ensuring that in the conduct of its business, which is the subject of a recent consultation which HSBC treats customers fairly and openly, does closed in January 2014.
They have been in place business with the right clients and in the right way, is throughout the year and up to 24 February 2014, the a responsible employer, acts responsibly towards the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts communities in which HSBC operates and treats 2013.
In the case of companies acquired during the other stakeholders fairly.
year, the risk management and internal controls in place are being reviewed against HSBCs The Committee has non-executive responsibility benchmarks and integrated into HSBCs processes.
for, and advises the Board on, HSBC policies, procedures and standards to ensure that the Group HSBCs key risk management and internal conducts business responsibly and consistently control procedures include the following: adheres to HSBC Values.
Functional, operating, The Committee will meet at least four times financial reporting and certain management each year.
reporting standards are established by global function management committees, for Chairmans Committee application throughout HSBC.
These are 1 supplemented by operating standards set by Members Douglas Flint Chairman John Coombe functional and local management as required for Joachim Faber the type of business and geographical location Rona Fairhead of each subsidiary.
Stuart Gulliver Rachel Lomax Delegation of authority within limits set Iain Mackay Marc Moses by the Board.
Authority is delegated to each Sir Simon Robertson relevant Group Managing Director to manage the day to day affairs of the business or function 1 All members appointed on 22 November 2013, unless for which he or she is accountable within limits otherwise indicated.
Delegation of authority from 364 the Board requires those individuals to maintain internet crime and fraud: a clear and appropriate apportionment of information security risk: and significant responsibilities and to oversee the model risk.
establishment and maintenance of systems of Strategic plans.
Periodic strategic plans are control that are appropriate to the business or prepared for global businesses, global functions function.
Appointments to the most senior and certain geographical regions within the positions within HSBC requires the approval of framework of the Groups strategy.
Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis Risk identification and monitoring.
Systems of risk appetite describing the types and and procedures are in place to identify, control quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in and report on the major risks facing HSBC see executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted page 36 including credit, market, liquidity and by all major HSBC operating companies and set funding, capital, financial management, model, out the key business initiatives and the likely reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability, financial effects of those initiatives.
operational including accounting, tax, legal, Disclosure Committee.
The Disclosure regulatory compliance, financial crime Committee reviews material public disclosures compliance, fiduciary, security and fraud, made by HSBC Holdings for any material systems operations, project and people risk, errors, misstatements or omissions.
The insurance and Islamic finance risk.
Exposure to membership of the Disclosure Committee, these risks is monitored by risk management which is chaired by the Group Company committees, asset, liability and capital Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, management committees and executive Legal, Risk including Financial Crime committees in subsidiaries and, for the Group, Compliance and Regulatory Compliance, in Risk Management Meetings RMM of Communications, Investor Relations, and the GMB which are chaired by the Group Chief Internal Audit functions and representatives Risk Officer.
RMM meets regularly to address from the principal regions and global asset, liability and risk management issues.
The integrity of disclosures is HSBCs operational risk profile and the underpinned by structures and processes within effective implementation of the Groups the Global Finance and Risk functions that operational risk management framework is support expert and rigorous analytical review of monitored by the Global Operational Risk and financial reporting complemented by certified Control Committee GORCC, which reports reviews by heads of global businesses, global to the RMM.
Model risks are monitored by the functions and certain legal entities.
Model Oversight Committee which also reports to the RMM.
The minutes of the GMB meetings Financial reporting.
The Group financial and the RMM are provided to members of the reporting process for preparing the consolidated GAC, the GRC and the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 is controlled using documented accounting policies and Changes in market conditions practices.
reporting formats, supported by a chart of Processes are in place to identify new risks accounts with detailed instructions and guidance arising from changes in market conditions on reporting requirements, issued by Group practices or customer behaviours, which could Finance to all reporting entities within the expose HSBC to heightened risk of loss or Group in advance of each reporting period end.
During 2013, attention The submission of financial information from was focused on: each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject emerging markets slowdown: to certification by the responsible financial increased geopolitical risk: officer, and analytical review procedures at regulatory developments affecting our reporting entity and Group levels.
business model and Group profitability: Responsibility for risk management.
regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions Management of global businesses and global commitments and consent orders and functions are primarily accountable for requirements relating to conduct of business managing, measuring and monitoring their and financial crime negatively affecting our risks and controls.
Processes consistent with the results and brand: three lines of defence risk management and the dispute risk: internal control model are in place to ensure heightened execution risk: 365 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Procedures Role of GAC and GRC Effectiveness Going concern Employees weaknesses are escalated to senior management using a risk-based approach.
The Group Head of and addressed.
Global Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GRC and Chairman of the GAC in relation IT operations.
Centralised functional control to the independence of the function and is exercised over all IT developments and resourcing, with a secondary executive reporting operations.
Common systems are employed for line to the Group Chief Executive Officer.
similar business processes wherever practicable.
Global functional management is responsible for ensuring that management is responsible for setting policies, recommendations made by the Global Internal procedures and standards for the following Audit function are implemented within an risks: credit, market, liquidity and funding, appropriate and agreed timetable.
Confirmation capital, financial management, model, to this effect must be provided to Global Internal reputational, pension, strategic, sustainability Audit.
and operational risk including accounting, tax, legal, financial crime compliance, regulatory Reputational risk.
Policies to guide subsidiary compliance, fiduciary, information security, companies and management at all levels in the security and fraud, systems and people risk conduct of business to safeguard the Groups insurance and Islamic finance risk.
Authorities reputation are established by the Board and its to enter into credit and market risk exposures committees, subsidiary company boards and are delegated with limits to line management of their committees and senior management.
The concurrence of the Reputational risks can arise from a variety of appropriate global function is required, however, causes including environmental, social and to credit proposals with specified higher risk governance issues, as a consequence of characteristics.
Credit and market risks are operational risk events and as a result of measured and reported on in subsidiaries and employees acting in a manner inconsistent with aggregated for review of risk concentrations on HSBC Values.
HSBCs reputation depends upon a Group-wide basis.
the way in which it conducts its business and may be affected by the way in which clients, to CEO Attestation process.
Global Operational which it provides financial services, conduct Risk coordinate the annual CEO Attestation their business or use financial products and process under which the chief executive officer services.
of each of the Groups material subsidiaries confirms that the internal control framework Role of GAC and GRC applicable to that subsidiary has been assessed and any significant open issues have been On behalf of the Board, the GAC has responsibility identified, with action plans in place to address for oversight of risk management and internal weaknesses.
The remediation of these issues is controls over financial reporting and the GRC has monitored by the Operational Risk and Internal responsibility for oversight of risk management and Control ORIC teams for the relevant regions internal controls, other than over financial reporting.
global businesses and reports on progress are During the year, the GRC and the GAC have presented to their ORIC committees and kept under review the effectiveness of this system quarterly to Global Operational Risk.
An annual of internal control and have reported regularly report and updates on identified issues and to the Board.
In carrying out their reviews, the remediation plans are presented to the GRC GRC and the GAC receive regular business and and the GAC.
operational risk assessments, regular reports from Internal Audit.
The establishment and the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Global Head maintenance of appropriate systems of risk of Internal Audit: reports on the annual reviews of management and internal control is primarily the internal control framework of HSBC Holdings the responsibility of business management.
which cover all internal controls, both financial and The Global Internal Audit function, which is non-financial: annual confirmations from chief centrally controlled, provides independent and executives of principal subsidiary companies as objective assurance in respect of the adequacy to whether there have been any material losses, of the design and operating effectiveness of the contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses Groups framework of risk management, control in internal controls: internal audit reports: external and governance processes across the Group, audit reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory focusing on the areas of greatest risk to HSBC reports.
The GRC monitors the status of top and 366
