HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Management Board Group Audit Committee The GMB is a key element of our management independence requirements, is a crucial element in reporting and control structure such that all of our line the handover of audit responsibilities by KPMG.
operations are accountable either to a member of the This transition process will continue to be a focus for GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, who the GAC in 2014. in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The Board has At the conclusion of the Annual General set objectives and measures for the GMB.
These align Meeting, I shall be stepping down from the Board senior executives objectives and measures with the and it is proposed that Renato Fassbind will become strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC.
Chairman of the GAC at this time.
I should like to The Group Chief Executive who is Chairman congratulate him on his appointment and welcome of the GMB reports to each meeting of the Board Kathleen Casey, who will become a Director and on the activities of the GMB.
member of the GAC in March 2014.
Regular Risk Management Meetings of the John Coombe GMB, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, are Chairman, Group Audit Committee held to establish, maintain and periodically review 24 February 2014 the policy and guidelines for the management of risk within the Group.
Role and members Regular Global Standards Steering Meetings The Group Audit Committee has non-executive of the GMB, co-chaired by the Group Chief Risk responsibility for oversight of, and advice to the Officer and Chief Legal Officer, are held to develop Board on, matters relating to financial reporting.
and implement Global Standards reflecting best practices which must be adopted and adhered Meetings Meetings eligible to consistently throughout the Group.
The Head attended to attend of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Group 1 Members Money Laundering Reporting Officer attends each John Coombe Chairman....... 5 5 meeting.
Marvin Cheung....................... 5 5 2 Rona Fairhead......................... 3 3 3 Renato Fassbind..................... 3 3 Group Audit Committee Rachel Lomax......................... 5 5 Chairmans Statement Meetings held in 2013........... 5 HSBCs Annual Report and Accounts 2013 differs 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
Kathleen Casey will be appointed as a non-executive from previous years in line with the new Director with effect from 1 March 2014 and will become a UK legislation requiring that UK companies include member of the Committee from this date.
With effect from in their annual report a Strategic Report section the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, John covering the companys strategy and business model Coombe will retire as a Director and Chairman of the GAC and Renato Fassbind will become Chairman of the GAC and the principal risks and challenges it faces.
The subject to regulatory approval.
GAC has provided input and guidance on the way 2 Retired as a member of the Committee on 24 May 2013. in which the Annual Report and Accounts 2013 has 3 Appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 March 2013. been presented and we hope shareholders find the Strategic Report section to be concise and useful.
The Board has determined that Marvin Cheung, John Coombe, Renato Fassbind and Rachel Lomax are, We have set out in the report below further and Rona Fairhead was, independent according to information on the role and activities of the GAC SEC criteria and may be regarded as audit committee during 2013. financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of A particular focus area for the GAC in the year the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant was oversight of the tender process which resulted financial experience for the purposes of the UK in the recommendation to the Board that Corporate Governance Code.
 LLP PwC be The governance structure for the oversight appointed the Groups auditor for the financial year of financial reporting is set out below.
The transition process operating subsidiary has established a board for PwC to familiarise themselves with the Groups committee with non-executive responsibility for business and to take steps to satisfy auditor oversight of matters relating to financial reporting.
348 Governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and nonFinancial reporting executive Directors Appointing senior financial officers GAC Independent non-executive Monitoring the integrity of financial statements Directors Overseeing the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their effectiveness Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function Reviewing the Companys financial and accounting policies and practices Advising the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and remuneration of the external auditor Disclosure Representatives from Reviewing the Groups material communications with investors Committee global businesses, Assisting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their functions and certain obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Group companies Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis Reporting findings and making recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Subsidiary board Independent non-executive Providing reports to the GAC on financial statements and internal controls over financial committees directors and or HSBC reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested responsible for Group employees with no oversight of line of functional financial responsibility for the reporting and activities of relevant global business subsidiary or global audit committees business, as appropriate.
Committee activities considered provisioning for, and disclosure of, certain litigation and regulatory matters The GAC undertook the following activities in the with external legal counsel providing a discharge of its responsibilities: status update on these matters: Financial reporting.
The Committee advised received presentations from the Global the Board on meeting its external financial Head of Tax on current tax issues: reporting obligations through its reviews of financial statements, interim reports and interim received a report on the accounting issues management statements prior to approval by raised in the Report of the Parliamentary the Board.
The Committee also undertook the Commission on Banking Standards: and following: reviewed the procedures for the submission endorsed the going concern statement and by employees of concerns regarding the statement of compliance with the UK accounting and or auditing matters.
and Hong Kong Corporate Governance The GAC considered the significant Codes for inclusion in the financial accounting issues described below and in statements: addressing these issues the Committee advised the Board that the annual report and considered the appropriateness of managements accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced judgements and estimates and, where and understandable: appropriate, discussed these judgements and estimates with the external auditor, reviewing received reports on proposed changes to the matters referred to in the external auditors the Groups disclosures in the financial report as risks of material misstatement.
The statements and the adequacy of procedures Committee considered: to identify transactions and matters requiring disclosure under certain loan impairment allowances and charges accounting standards: throughout the year, discussing with management the reasons for significant reviewed accounting policies and practices, changes.
Judgements and estimates including approval of the critical accounting discussed included changes to the loan policies: impairment model and assumptions for 349 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee restructured loans in Brazil: a review of as no industry consensus has yet emerged on assumptions about the time period between how FFVA should be calculated.
However, loss events occurring, discovery and FFVA may be adopted by HSBC in future eventual write-off for the collective as such consensus develops: impairment assessment of retail banking the impairment test performed on HSBCs and small business portfolios: collective investment in BoCom as at 31 December provisioning for US mortgage portfolios, 2013.
The impairment test identified that, and management judgements on notable based on an assessment of the value in use of individual cases of impairment in wholesale the investment, the investment is not banking: impaired.
The Committee noted the the recognition and level of provisions, the sensitivity of the impairment test result to existence of contingent liabilities, and the projected future cash flows and the discount disclosures relating to provisions and rate: contingent liabilities, for legal proceedings the results of the annual goodwill impairment and regulatory matters: test completed as at 1 July 2013, which HSBCs exposure to the payment of redress identified no impairment.
The goodwill in respect of the possible mis-selling of relating to GPB Europe was re-tested as payment protection insurance policies in at 31 December 2013 following reduced the UK and the related provisions.
The forecast profitability in the second half of Committee considered the key assumptions 2013, and management concluded that it was which determine the provisions and the not impaired.
The Committee noted that factors driving the increase during the year.
disclosure has been made with regards to the Managements assessment was that the extent to which a change in key assumptions amount of provision at 31 December 2013 would result in the recoverable amount being is based on appropriate assumptions about equal to its carrying amount: future expected redress payments, while the recognition of deferred tax assets, noting the sensitivity of the provision to including in the US, where reliance is placed different outcomes from those assumed: on the Groups continued investment of HSBCs exposure to remediation costs sufficient capital to ensure realisation of relating to the possible mis-selling of deferred tax assets, in Mexico, where the interest rate swaps to small and mediumrecoverability of deferred tax assets has been sized businesses in the UK, noting the affected by clarifications in legislation, and in reasons for the additional provisions made the UK, where projections of future taxable during 2013: income of HSBC Holdings plc are insufficient to enable recognition of deferred developments in the industry investigations tax assets for its carried forward tax losses.
and reviews into the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark interest and Internal controls over financial reporting.
foreign exchange rates, and matters relating The Committee undertook an annual review to trading on foreign exchange and credit of HSBCs systems of internal controls over derivatives markets, by various regulators financial reporting.
During 2013, the Committee and competition and enforcement monitored the effectiveness of such internal authorities around the world.
The controls and reported regularly to the Board as Committee discussed the high degree of described on page 366.
The Committee received uncertainty as to the resolution of these regular reports from the Group Finance regulatory investigations and reviews: Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Minutes the valuation of financial instruments of the Group Risk Committee and executive measured at fair value, including the committee meetings including the GMB, Risk measurement of derivatives.
Developments Management Meetings and Global Standard in market practice regarding accounting for Steering Meetings were provided to the funding costs in the valuation of Committee members.
The Committee also uncollateralised derivatives were considered.
reviewed the adequacy of resources, HSBC does not currently include funding fair qualifications and experience of staff in the value adjustments FFVA in the fair value Finance function.
Reports were submitted to measurement of uncollateralised derivatives, 350 the Committee on internal control matters in regions, a review of the relationship between the relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group Group and the external auditor at a senior level Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, and considered the results of feedback provided the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group to the external auditor by members of the Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company finance function throughout the Group.
The Secretary, external auditor and other senior Committee approved the remuneration and executives attended Committee meetings.
The terms of engagement and recommended to Committee had regular discussions with the the Board the re-appointment of the external external auditor and the Group Head of Internal auditor.
Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for Terms of reference and effectiveness of the discussions to take place without management Committee.
The Committee undertook an present.
annual review of its terms of reference and Effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee satisfied itself that the internal In addition to the scheduled Committee audit function was effective and adequately meetings, the Chairman met regularly with resourced through regular meetings held with, the Group Finance Director, the Group Chief and reports provided by, the Group Head of Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including the Group Head of Internal Audit, the external the effectiveness and adequacy of resources.
auditor and other senior executives as required.
PwC were engaged to undertake a review of the internal audit function to assess compliance with Terms of reference and subsidiary company industry and regulatory internal audit guidance audit oversight and progress made by the function in addressing the recommendations contained in the external The GAC is responsible for non-executive oversight quality assurance review performed by KPMG of internal controls over financial reporting.
The Committee received reports over To ensure consistency of scope and approach the course of 2013 on the activities of the by subsidiary company audit committees, the internal audit function and reviewed its planned GAC has established core terms of reference to activities for the following year.
guide subsidiary companies when adopting Legal and regulatory environment.
The terms of reference for their non-executive audit Committee received regular reports on litigation committees.
The Committees endorsement is and on the application of changes in law, required for any proposed material changes to regulation, accounting policies and practices subsidiary audit committee terms of reference and regulatory developments, including reports and for appointments to such committees.
on developments in the programme to change A forum for the chairmen of our principal IFRSs, Basel III CRD IV, the recommendations subsidiary company committees with responsibility of the ICB and accounting issues raised in the for non-executive oversight of financial reporting report from the Parliamentary Commission on and risk-related matters was held in June 2013 to Banking Standards.
share understanding and to facilitate a consistent External auditor.
The Committee provided approach to the way in which these subsidiary oversight of the external auditor through regular company committees operate.
The next forum meetings with the external auditor, including will be held in June 2014. meetings without management present, and receiving reports on the external auditors Arrangements relating to the external strategy in relation to the audit of financial auditor statements and the progress of the audit.
The The Committee has recommended to the Board that Committee monitored the effectiveness of the KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the audit process through a review of the public forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
report published by the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Inspection Unit on the KPMG has been the Groups auditor since 1991, inspection of the external auditor, an assessment when HSBC Holdings became the ultimate holding against a best practice checklist for evaluating company of the Group, without a tender process external auditors, an external audit assessment for the external audit contract having taken place.
questionnaire completed by the chief financial A tender process was undertaken in 2013, resulting officers of the Groups major geographical in a recommendation, which was endorsed by the 351 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
