HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Board, that  LLP be Group Risk Committee appointed as external auditor for the financial year Chairmans Statement commencing 1 January 2015.
The appointment will be subject to shareholders approval at the 2015 I assumed the chairmanship of the Group Risk AGM.
Committee GRC in May 2013 from Rona Fairhead, under whose leadership the role of The Board has approved, on the the GRC continued to evolve.
Following my recommendation of the Committee, a policy for appointment and the establishment of the Financial the employment by HSBC of former employees System Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC in of KPMG.
The Committee receives an annual report January 2013 to oversee financial crime-related on such former employees who are employed and risk matters and the Groups adoption of enhanced the number in senior positions.
This report enables compliance standards, the GRC has been in a the Committee to consider whether there has been position to increase its focus on oversight of other any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of areas of risk that the Group faces and to take an the external auditors judgement, objectivity or increasingly forward-looking approach to identifying independence in respect of the audit.
auditor provided written confirmation of its independence under industry standards.
As the Group has continued to pursue its transformation agenda to simplify the way the Group The policies for the pre-approval of specific is run and make it easier to manage, the GRC has services that may be provided by the principal focused on identification and management of risks auditor are kept under review by the Committee and inherent in the implementation of this agenda.
As amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of businesses have been disposed of or closed, pressure ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner has been exerted on costs and our global businesses from the cumulative knowledge and experience of and functions have been re-shaped, the GRC has our auditor, while also ensuring that our external overseen risk management actions with a particular auditor maintains the necessary degree of focus on seeking assurance that managements independence and objectivity.
These pre-approval controls across the Group are not adversely affected.
policies apply to all services where any HSBC company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary The culture of the Group and the tone set by or addressee of the service, and has selected or senior management throughout its global operations influenced the choice of KPMG.
All services are critical to effective risk management.
The GRC provided by KPMG during 2013 were pre-approved focuses on steps taken to communicate and reinforce by the Committee or were entered into under prethe Groups commitment to doing the right thing approval policies established by the Committee.
particularly during reviews of the strategies and risk governance frameworks of the global businesses and The pre-approved services relate to regulatory functions.
This is also reflected in the risk-related reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types advice the GRC provides to the Group Remuneration of attestation reports, the provision of advice and Committee in connection with determination of the other non-audit services allowed under SEC variable pay pool and individual awards.
The services fall into the categories of audit services, audit-related services, The implications for the Group of evolving legal tax services and other services.
and regulatory requirements applicable to financial institutions, and preparatory steps being taken to An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect address them, are kept under close review by the of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG Committee.
Aspects of the changing legal and for each of the past three years is disclosed in Note 8 regulatory environment which have been priority on the Financial Statements.
focus areas for the GRC in 2013 include the increased regulatory focus on conduct issues, particularly in the UK retail banking business, the implementation of new UK legislation on ringfencing of a UK banks retail operations from its investment banking operations, the application of the Volcker rule which is part of the US Dodd-Frank Act and the introduction of a bail-in capital regime for UK banks.
The nature and pace of legal and 352 regulatory change in 2013 has led to increased John Trueman, a non-executive director of scrutiny by the GRC of the Groups risk appetite HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk committee, profile and management actions to mitigate risks and and Robert Herdman, a non-executive director of exposures.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Bank USA have both attended meetings of the GRC We have set out in the report below further by invitation during 2013.
Their experience of riskinformation on the role and activities of the GRC related matters in the financial services industry during 2013. is valued by the Committee.
On behalf of the Committee I should like to thank John Coombe, who will be stepping down as Governance a Director with effect from the 2014 Annual General All of HSBCs activities involve, to varying degrees, Meeting, for his valuable contribution.
the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and Joachim Faber management of risk or combinations of risks.
The Chairman, Group Risk Committee Board, advised by the Committee, requires and 24 February 2014 encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
The Board and the Committee oversee the maintenance Role and members and development of a strong risk management The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on framework by continually monitoring the risk high-level risk-related matters and risk governance environment, top and emerging risks facing the and for non-executive oversight of risk management Group and mitigating actions planned and taken.
and internal controls other than financial reporting.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of Meetings the Groups risk management and internal controls Meetings eligible systems other than over financial reporting, which attended to attend 1 are monitored by the GAC.
Members 2 Joachim Faber Chairman.... 9 9 The governance structure for the management John Coombe.......................... 9 9 3 of risk is set out in the following table.
Each major Rona Fairhead....................... 5 5 John Lipsky............................. 9 9 operating subsidiary has established a board Rachel Lomax......................... 9 9 committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters and an executive Meetings held in 2013........... 9 committee with responsibility for risk-related 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.. matters.
With effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, John Coombe will retire as a Director and member of the GRC.
2 Appointed chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013.
3 Retired as a member and chairman of the Committee on 24 May 2013.
Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Directors Approving risk appetite, strategy and performance targets for the Group Approving appointment of chief risk officers of subsidiary companies Encouraging a strong risk governance culture which shapes the Groups attitude to risk GRC Independent non-executive Directors Advising the Board on: risk appetite and alignment with strategy alignment of remuneration with risk appetite through advice to the Group Remuneration Committee risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals Overseeing high-level risk related matters Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls other than over financial reporting Overseeing the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk 353 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Financial System Executive Directors and co-opted nonOverseeing controls and procedures designed to identify areas of Vulnerabilities director members exposure to financial crime or system abuse Committee Overseeing matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing Reviewing policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met GAC Independent non-executive Directors Overseeing risks relating to financial reporting and internal control over financial reporting.
Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Formulating high-level global risk policy of the GMB Chief Legal Officer Exercising delegated risk management authority Group Chief Executive Overseeing implementation of risk appetite and controls Group Finance Director Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate All other Group Managing Directors mitigating action Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management Global Standards Steering Group Chief Risk Officer Developing and implementing Global Standards reflecting best Meeting of the GMB Chief Legal Officer practices which must be adopted and adhered to throughout the Group Chief Executive Group Group Finance Director Overseeing initiatives to ensure our conduct matches our values Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer All other Group Managing Directors Global Risk Management Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief Board Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs global Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk businesses and regions function, setting priorities and overseeing their execution Heads of risk areas within the Global Overseeing consistent approach to accountability for, and Risk Function mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Subsidiary board Independent non-executive directors Providing reports to the GRC or intermediate risk committee on committees responsible and or HSBC Group employees risk-related matters and internal controls other than over for risk-related matters with no line or functional financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as and global business risk responsibility for the activities of requested committees the relevant subsidiary or global business, as appropriate Risk reporting and monitoring Risk Officer.
The Committee also receives regular presentations from the Global Head of Financial The GRC regularly monitors: Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering the Groups risk appetite and risk profile against Reporting Officer, Global Head of Regulatory key performance risk indicators, as set out in the Compliance, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on GroupChief Legal Officer and other business, function wide, global business and regional bases: and risk heads.
the top and emerging risks facing the Group: and Risk appetite the risk profiles for separate categories of risk Risk appetite is a key component of our management within the Groups business identified in the of risk.
The Board, advised by the GRC, approves Groups Risk Appetite Statement, on Groupthe Groups risk appetite, which describes the types wide, global business and regional bases: and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by accept in executing our strategy and which is set out management.
in the Groups Risk Appetite Statement.
Embedding risk appetite statements and the related monitoring Reports on these items are presented at each and reporting framework across the Group has meeting of the Committee.
Regular reports from the continued to be an area of significant focus in 2013 Risk Management Meeting of the GMB, which is the with initiatives undertaken to: executive body responsible for overseeing risk, are also presented.
further enhance the Global risk appetite framework for consistent adoption by all regions In carrying out its responsibilities the and global businesses within the Group: and Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief 354 complete a formal triennial review and businesses and regions to operate, are expressed assessment that HSBCs risk appetite quantitatively across the following dimensions: framework remains fit for purpose, is in line with best practice and adheres to the highest Risk appetite: core characteristics standards.
Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns Strong balance sheet Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by Healthy capital position the core characteristics listed to the right.
These core Conservative liquidity management Strong brand characteristics are applied to define the risk appetite Robust Group structure of separate legal entities statements on Group-wide, global business and The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term regional levels.
The relevant strategic and earnings growth operational objectives, within which we expect Risk diversification Strategic and operational objectives Earnings 1.
Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken Capital and liquidity 2.
Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements 3.
Maintain a strong capital ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 common equity tier 1 from 2014 4.
Maintain a well-diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios 5.
Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet Impairments 6.
Manage impairments within the Groups tolerance Risk category and 7.
Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite diversification 8.
Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings Intra-Group lending 9.
Group entities should operate at all times within intra-group exposure limits Scenario and 10.
Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Groups capital stress testing adequacy and strategic plans Top and emerging risks The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with management at each of its meetings.
Current top and Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks emerging risks, which are summarised below, are is integral to our approach to risk management.
We viewed as falling into three broad categories: define a top risk as being a current, emerged risk macroeconomic and geopolitical: macro-prudential, which has arisen across any of our risk categories, regulatory and legal risks to our business model: and regions or global businesses and has the potential risks related to our business operations, governance to have a material impact on our financial results or and internal control systems.
our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term business model, and which may form and crystallise The following table shows the current top and within a one-year horizon.
We consider an emerging risks identified through our risk emerging risk to be one which has large uncertain management processes: outcomes which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a material effect on our long-term strategy.
Current top and emerging risks Categories Top and emerging risks Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Emerging markets slowdown Increased geopolitical risk Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group profitability business model Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, commitments and consent orders and requirements relating to conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and brand Dispute risk Heightened execution risk Risks related to our business operations, governance Internet crime and fraud and internal control systems Information security risk Data management Model risk 355 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Stress testing Legal and regulatory environment.
Reports were received from the Chief Legal Officer on Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme forward-looking legal risks, the Global Head of is central to the monitoring of top and emerging Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money risks.
It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business Laundering Reporting Officer, the Global Head and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme of Regulatory Compliance on forward-looking but plausible events.
compliance risks and the Head of Group The outcome of the testing and analysis is also Performance and Reward.
Regular updates used to assess the potential impact of the relevant were received on the US regulatory and law scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital enforcement authorities and US dispute risk compared with its supply.
and compliance matters in the US and the steps taken to remediate these compliance issues.
Management develops action plans to mitigate risks identified.
The extent to which those action Obligations under US and UK agreements.
plans are implemented depends on managements Regular updates have been received and evaluation of the risks and their potential reviewed on the Groups progress in meeting consequences, taking into account HSBCs obligations under the agreements and orders risk appetite.
entered into or made in connection with the resolution of the investigations by US and UK Further information on scenario stress testing regulatory and law enforcement authorities in is set out on page 139.
December 2012 and actions completed to date.
Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three HSBC Global Standards.
The Committee main classifications: regulatory scenarios: Groupreceived regular updates on the Global wide business scenarios: and specific business or Standards initiative being undertaken by the exposure scenarios.
Group and the activities of the Global Standards During 2013, the GRC reviewed the outcome Steering Meeting.
of a number of stress tests undertaken by the Group Financial Crime.
The Committee received and action plans to mitigate risks where appropriate, regular reports on the activities of the Financial including a Group reverse liquidity test and stress System Vulnerabilities Committee.
tests on the Annual Operating Plan under severe eurozone crisis and US fiscal cliff scenarios, the Compliance-related initiatives.
The potential consequences of a breach of the Deferred Committee received regular reports on the Prosecution Agreements, worsening economic restructuring of the Compliance function, conditions in Japan and Brazil, a global slowdown including the development of the blueprint and scenario, including a hard landing in mainland target operating model for each of the Financial China, and a eurozone break-up.
Crime Compliance team and the Regulatory Compliance team and the establishment of a The development of HSBCs stress testing and project management office for implementation scenario testing analysis programme will continue of compliance-related initiatives.
to be an area of focus for the Committee.
The Committee received regular Committee activities reports from the Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA on compliance and regulatory The GRC undertook the following key activities in matters in the US.
the discharge of its responsibilities: Country risk tolerances.
The Committee Oversight of executive risk management.
considered enhancements to the Groups Regular reports and presentations were received country risk tolerance framework.
The risk from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at tolerance in respect of the Groups two home each meeting a presentation of a risk map, markets and 20 priority markets were which provides analysis, on Group-wide, global considered by the Committee.
business and regional bases, of risk profiles for categories of risk identified in the Group Risk Risk data aggregation and risk reporting.
Appetite Statement, and a top and emerging The Committee received reports on actions to risks report which summarises proposed comply with the Basel Committee on Banking mitigating actions for identified risks.
The Supervisions principles on data aggregation Committee received regular reports on matters and risk reporting.
discussed at Risk Management Meetings.
356 Review of risk management and internal and determination of variable pay was also controls.
The Committee undertook an annual reported to the Committee.
The Committee review of HSBCs systems of internal controls, provided advice and feedback on risk-related other than over financial reporting.
During matters to the Group Remuneration Committee 2013, the Committee monitored the where appropriate.
effectiveness of such risk management and Reputational risk.
The Committee received internal controls and reported regularly to the reports from executive management on Board as described on page 364.
presentations were made, and reports submitted, by the heads of the global businesses and global Benchmarking.
The Committee received functions to the Committee on the risk control reports on internal benchmarking exercises framework in their respective business or undertaken against third party assessment of function.
Reports from the Group Head of industry best practices for risk and compliance Internal Audit on the internal audit process and functions.
weaknesses identified in internal controls other Top and emerging risks.
In monitoring top and than over financial reporting were presented emerging risks the Committee received reports to the Committee, as well as reports from from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the regulators relating to the internal control Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance systems.
and Group Money Laundering Reporting Risk appetite.
The Committee reviewed the Officer, the Global Head of Regulatory alignment of risk appetite and Group strategy.
Compliance as well as other members of Regular reviews were undertaken of the Groups senior management on risks identified and risk profile against the key performance developments in the Groups business, including indicators set out in the Risk Appetite Statement model risk, people risk, the changing regulatory which considered the need for any adjustment to environment: the implications of regulatory the risk appetite.
The Risk Appetite Statement investigations and global market risk such as the for 2014 was recommended to the Board for implications of an emerging market slowdown approval, to be used in the preparation of the and the impact on trade and capital flows.
Reports and Acquisitions and disposals.
The Committee presentations were received from the Group received reports and presentations on risk issues Chief Risk Officer, including on the results of relating to proposed strategic acquisitions and HSBCs stress testing and scenario analysis the risk management of disposals and advised programme.
Alignment of remuneration with risk Operational risk.
Presentations and reports were regular reports on the Groups operational risk received on remuneration-related proposals management framework.
to assist the Committee in giving advice to the Group Remuneration Committee on the Oversight of risk governance framework.
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite.
Minutes of the GAC, the Financial System The GRC considered risk-related issues to have Vulnerabilities Committee, Group been appropriately taken into account by the Remuneration Committee, GMB including Group Remuneration Committee, including the Risk Management Meeting and the Global when determining the total variable pay funding Standards Steering Meeting, and the Group pool for the 2013 performance year and the Reputational Risk Policy Committee were proposed design of the performance scorecard made available to Committee members.
The Committee Terms of reference and Committee received presentations on the procedure for effectiveness.
The Committee undertook a determining individual variable pay awards, review of its terms of reference and of its own including the risk assessment process for effectiveness.
identifying matters for which risk-related adjustments may be made to individual In addition to the scheduled Committee and team awards.
The process by which an meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the individuals adherence to HSBC Values and the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Groups risk-related policies and procedures is Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, the taken into account in performance assessment 357 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
