3 Retired as a Director and Chairman of the Committee on Members 24 May 2013.
4 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2013.
Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend The Directors Remuneration Report is set out 1 Members on pages 378 to 407.
Sir Simon Robertson Chairman.......................... 4 4 Nomination Committee Rona Fairhead.......................... 4 4 James Hughes-Hallett............. 4 4 Chairmans Statement John Lipsky............................. 4 4 Meetings held in 2013........... 4 A key responsibility of the Nomination Committee is to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills, 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
With knowledge, experience, independence and diversity effect from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General on the Board.
Meeting, James Hughes-Hallett will retire as a Director and member of the Committee and Laura Cha and Sam Laidlaw Another important responsibility of the will become members of the Committee.
Committee is to ensure that plans are in place for the selection, appointment and orderly succession of Committee activities executive Directors and senior executives.
The The Committee undertook the following key Committee met once last year to undertake with the activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: Group Chief Executive an in-depth review of succession plans and satisfied itself after discussion Appointments of new Directors.
Following a that such plans were sufficient and appropriate but rigorous selection process, the Committee needed to be kept under annual review.
recommended to the Board the appointment of Jim Comey appointed with effect from 4 March At the conclusion of the Annual General 2013 and resigned with effect from 4 September Meeting in May 2014, both John Coombe and James 2013 as he was asked by President Obama to Hughes-Hallett who have served the Board for many become head of the Federal Bureau of years with distinction will be retiring.
Investigation, Sir Jonathan Evans appointed The Committee continues to monitor regulatory with effect from 6 August 2013 and Kathleen developments as they may affect Board composition.
Casey appointed with effect from 1 March The Committee has considered in detail the new 2014.
Both Jim Comey and Sir Jonathan Evans requirements under the EUs Capital Requirements have a background in combatting financial and Directive IV which comes into effect on 1 July 2014 other crime.
Kathleen Casey brings to the Board and which will restrict the number of directorships extensive experience of financial services that may be held by members of the Board.
An external search consultancy, ramifications of these new requirements for the MWM Consulting, was used in relation to the current Board are being reviewed.
The Committee is appointment of Sir Jonathan Evans and also considering the implications the new Kathleen Casey.
MWM Consulting has no other requirements may have on the pipeline of potential connection with HSBC.
Jim Comey was non-executive Directors with the appropriate skills, introduced to us by a member of senior knowledge and experience to augment the Board.
Having regard to his public and private sector roles, the Committee considered On behalf of the Committee I would like to that neither external consultants nor advertising thank James Hughes-Hallett, who will be stepping were considered necessary in relation to this down as a Director with effect from the 2014 Annual appointment.
Finally, the Committee also General Meeting, for his commitment, insights and recommended the appointment of Marc Moses, valuable contribution as a member of the Committee.
Group Chief Risk Officer, as an executive I would like to welcome Laura Cha and Sam Director with effect from 1 January 2014 in Laidlaw who will be appointed as members of this recognition of the criticality of the Risk function Committee from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual to the Group.
The Committee adopts Sir Simon Robertson a forward-looking approach to potential Chairman, Nomination Committee candidates for appointment to the Board that 24 February 2014 takes into account the needs and development of the Groups businesses and the expected retirement dates of current Directors.
The 361 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
