HSBC Values conducts business responsibly and consistently adheres to HSBC Values.
Embedding HSBC Values in every decision and every interaction with customers and Business principles with each other is a top priority for the Financial strength maintain capital strength and liquidity Group and is shaping the way we do Risk-management be enterprising and commercial, business.
understand and be accountable for the impact of our actions, take prudent decisions The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice Speed be fast and responsive, make principles-led is fundamental to our culture, and is particularly decisions important in the light of developments in regulatory Performance-focus drive leading, competitive levels of performance, act with urgency and intensity, prioritise, policy, investor confidence and societys simplify expectations of banks.
HSBC Values are integral to Efficiency focus on cost discipline and process efficiency the selection, assessment, recognition, remuneration Quality pursue excellence Customer-focus provide outstanding customer experience and training of our employees.
We expect our Integrated align the Group and break down silos executives and employees to act with courageous Sustainability take a long-term outlook, understand integrity in the execution of their duties in the impact of actions on stakeholders, brand and reputation following ways: HSBC Values Governance Be dependable and do the right thing The Board is committed to establishing and stand firm for what is right, deliver on commitments, be maintaining the highest standards of resilient and trustworthy: corporate governance wherever we operate.
take personal accountability, be decisive, use judgement and common sense, empower others.
This is key to the Groups ability to capitalise on the opportunities arising from successful Be open to different ideas and cultures implementation of our strategic priorities.
communicate openly, honestly and transparently, value challenge, learn from mistakes: We believe that a robust and transparent listen, treat people fairly, be inclusive, value different corporate governance framework is vital to the perspectives.
Strengthening our Be connected with our customers, communities, regulators corporate governance framework to support the and each other successful implementation of our Global Standards build connections, be externally focused, collaborate across boundaries: programme is a continuing focus of the Boards care about individuals and their progress, show respect, be agenda.
Role of the Board and Committees For further details on the role of HSBC Values in the employee proposition, see page 27.
The strategy and risk appetite for HSBC is set by the Board, which delegates the day-to-day running of the Business principles business to the GMB.
Risk Management Meetings and Global Standards Steering Meetings of the GMB HSBC Values describe how we should interact with are held in addition to regular GMB meetings.
each other, with customers, regulators and the wider community.
Our business principles set the standard GMB executive committees by which we derive our strategy and make 1 commercial decisions.
Together our values and Group Management Board business principles form our character and define who we are as an organisation and what makes us Risk Management Global Standards distinctive.
They describe the enduring nature of Meeting Steering Meeting how we do business.
We aim to bring these values and business principles to life through our day-toReviews the policy Develops and implements day actions.
guidelines for the global standards reflecting management of risk best practices which The emphasis we place on adhering to high within the Group must be adopted and adhered to consistently behavioural standards and doing the right thing has throughout the Group led us to establish a new Board committee, the Conduct & Values Committee, which will oversee The key roles of the non-executive committees design and application of HSBCs policies, established by the Board are described in the chart procedures and standards to ensure that HSBC below.
25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Strategic Report continued Strategic priority 2 Implement Global Standards Employees The committee structure and governance framework of the HSBC Holdings Board HSBC Holdings plc Board of Directors Group Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice for oversight of, and advice for setting the overarching for leading the process for to the Board on, high level to the Board on, matters principles, parameters and Board appointments and risk-related matters and relating to financial reporting.
governance framework of for identifying and nominating, risk governance.
the Groups remuneration for approval by the Board, policy and the remuneration candidates for appointment of senior executives.
Group Management Financial System Conduct & Values Chairmans 21 22 Board Vulnerabilities Committee Committee Committee Executive management Non-executive responsibility for Non-executive responsibility Acts on behalf of the Board committee which is oversight of i controls and for oversight of, and advice to between scheduled Board responsible for management procedures to identify areas the Board on, HSBC policies, meetings to facilitate ad hoc and day-to-day running where HSBC and the financial procedures and standards unforeseen business requiring of HSBC under the direct system more broadly may to ensure that the Group urgent Board approval.
become exposed to financial conducts business responsibly crime or system abuse, and consistently adheres and ii HSBC policies and to HSBC Values.
procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The terms of reference of the principal nonexecutive Board committees are available at www.
For further details on Group corporate governance, see page 329.
