Separate and distinct roles Independent British American Tobacco 45 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Leadership and responsibilities Management Board Governance framework The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is responsible The Board for overseeing the implementation by the Groups tobacco operating subsidiaries of the strategy and policies set by the Board, and for creating The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups vision and the framework for their successful day-to-day operation.
Alongside the strategicdirection, its values, and its governance.
The Board is Finance Director, and until 31 December 2013 the Chief Operating Officer, accountableto shareholders for the performance of the business and its other members comprise 11 senior Groupexecutives.
It provides the leadership necessary for theGroup to meet its performance objectives within a framework of Principal Management Board role internal controls.
Developing Group strategy for Reviewing regional and Principal Board role approval by theBoard functional budgets Developing guidelines for Groups Monitoring Group Approving Group strategy Agreeing Board succession plans regions and functions operating performance Approving Group policies Reviewing risk management Ensuring regional and functional Overseeing the management Approving major andinternal control strategies are effective and aligned and development oftalent corporate activities Reviewing Periodic Managing the central functions Approving Annual Report FinancialReports Agreeing governance framework Declaring interim recommending Agreeing Group budget final dividend Next-Generation Products NGP Board The NGP Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, is equivalent to the Management Board in seniority and responsibilities, but focuses exclusively Board Committees on the Groups non-combustible business.
Its other members are the The Board has established four principal Board Committees listed Finance Director and Managing Director, NGP.
below, to which it has delegated certain responsibilities.
The roles, Principal NGP Board role membership and activities of these Committees are described in detail in their individual reports in this section.
Each Committee has its own terms Developing non-combustible Overseeing the NGP Groups of reference, available at www.
com governance, which are strategy for approval by theBoard portfolio of programmes updated regularly, most recently in December 2013.
Monitoring the overall and projects performance of the NGP Group Overseeing the management Audit CSR Nominations Remuneration Making recommendations to the and development oftalent within Committee Committee Committee Committee Board on NGP matters the NGP Group See page 54 See page 58 See page 60 See page 61 Individual roles Collective decision making Chairman Leadership of the Board The Chairman seeks a consensus at Board meetings but, if necessary, Ensure Board effectiveness decisions are taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns on any issue that cannot be resolved, such concerns are noted in the Board minutes.
Facilitate contribution of Directors No such concerns arose in 2013.
Set Board agenda Interfacing with shareholders If required, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet prior to Ensure effective shareholder engagement Board meetings and without the Executive Directors present.
The Executive Chief Executive and the Non-Executive Directors also meet annually, led by the Senior Overall responsibility for performance Independent Director and without the Chairman present, in order to Leadership of the Group discuss the Chairmans performance.
Stewardship of Group assets Board programme Enable planning and execution of objectives and strategies Our annual Board programme is designed to enable the Board to drive Non-Executive Directors NEDs strategy forward across all the elements of the Groups business model, Help develop strategy which is set out in our Strategic Report on pages 1213.
The key activities Review management proposals of the Board in 2013, grouped under the Groups four strategy pillars, is Scrutinise performance of management set out in the accompanying table on pages 4849.
The Boards strategic Bring an external perspective to the Board priorities for 2014 are identified within the key performance indicators set Monitor reporting of performance out in our Strategic Report on page 14.
Available to meet with major shareholders Senior Independent Director SID The Board devotes considerable attention to corporate governance matters relating to the Groups internal controls and compliance activities.
Lead review of Chairmans performance It receives verbal updates from the chairmen of the Audit and CSR Preside at Board in Chairmans absence committees following each committee meeting, of which the Board Intermediary for other Directors receives full minutes and the related papers are available to all Directors.
Available to meet with major shareholders Oversight Leadership
