British American Tobacco 46 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Board of Directors 1 2 5 6 3 4 7 1 Richard Burrows 5 John Daly Chairman 68 Executive Director 57 Irish Irish Position: Chairman since November 2009: Non-Executive Director since September Position: Executive Director formerly Chief Operating Officer since 2010, having 2009: and Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
stepped down from that role on 31 December 2013.
Due to retire from the Board and the Company on 6 April 2014.
Key appointments: NED and member of the Remuneration Committee of Rentokil Initial plc: a Supervisory Board Member, member of the Audit Committee and Chairman Key appointments: Non-Executive Director of Reynolds American Inc. of the Remuneration Committee at Carlsberg A S: NED of Eurasian Natural Resources Skills and experience: Marketing Director, P. J. Carroll & Company Ireland : senior Corporation PLC until 25 October 2013: and member of the Trilateral Commission.
management roles in Europe and Asia: and Area Director Middle East & North Africa.
Skills and experience: Chief Executive of Irish Distillers: Co-Chief Executive of Pernod Appointed to the Management Board as Regional Director for Asia-Pacific in October Ricard: Governor of the Bank of Ireland: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 2004.
Holds a Diploma in Marketing and an International MBA.
6 Karen fide Segundo 2 Christine Morin-Postel Non-Executive Director 67 Senior Independent Director 67 Dutch French Position: Non-Executive Director since 2007: Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Position: Senior Independent Director since April 2013: Non-Executive Director since Committee: and member of the Nominations Committee.
2007: member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Key appointments: NED and member of the Audit & Risk, Nomination, Remuneration Key appointments: NED and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Safety & Sustainability Committees of Lonmin plc: Supervisory Board Member and of Groupe Bruxelles Lambert S. A. member of the Finance & Investment and Nomination Committees at E. ON SE: and Member of the Board and member of the Audit Committee of Pyry Oyj.
Skills and experience: Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique, Executive Vice-President and member of the Executive Committee of Suez and Chairman and Skills and experience: Senior executive roles before retiring as CEO ShellInternational CEO of Crdisuez S. A. : studied political sciences and graduated from the Institut fide Renewables and President Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
Holds a Masters degree in Law from Contrle Gestion.
Leiden University, an MBA from Michigan State University and is a Council Member of the Anglo Netherlands Society.
3 Nicandro Durante 7 Ann Godbehere Chief Executive 57 Non-Executive Director 58 Brazilian Italian Canadian British Position: Chief Executive since March 2011.
Position: Non-Executive Director since 2011: member of the Audit, Nominations and Key appointments: Non-Executive Director and member of the Nomination Committee Remuneration Committees.
of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Key appointments: NED, member of the Nominations Committee and Chair of the Skills and experience: COO from 2008: Regional Director for Africa and Middle East Audit Committee of Rio Tinto plc: NED, member of the Audit Committee and Chair of and member of the Management Board from 2006: senior general management roles the HR and Compensation Committee of UBS AG: NED, member of the Nominations in Brazil including President of Souza Cruz and in the UK and Hong Kong: has wide and Risk Committees and Chair of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc: NED of Arden experience in senior international finance and management roles within the Group.
Holdings Ltd, Atrium Underwriting Group Ltd and Atrium Underwriters Ltd.
Holds a degree in finance, economics and business administration.
Skills and experience: Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Group: Chief Financial Officer 4 Ben Stevens of Northern Rock during the initial phase of its public ownership: and Fellow of the Certified General Accountants of Canada.
Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 54 British Position: Finance Director since 2008: additionally Chief Information Officer since 2010.
Key appointments: No external appointments.
Skills and experience: Senior Group finance and general management roles: Head of Merger Integration following the merger with Rothmans: Chairman and Managing Director of the Pakistan Tobacco Company and British American Tobacco Russia: appointed to the Management Board in 2001 as Development Director becoming Director, Europe in 2004.
in Economics from Manchester University and an MBA from Manchester Business School.
British American Tobacco 47 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials 8 9 11 10 12 8 Dr Gerard Murphy 11 Dr Richard Tubb Non-Executive Director 58 Non-Executive Director 54 Irish US Position: Non-Executive Director since 2009: Chairman of the Remuneration Position: Non-Executive Director since January 2013: member of the Corporate Social Committee: and member of the Nominations Committee.
Key appointments: Member and Chairman of the Executive Committee of The Key appointments: White House Physician Emeritus: member of the Board of Reference Blackstone Group International Partners LLP: NED of Merlin Entertainments plc: Board for Project Rescue and the Travel Medicine Advisory Board of Shoreland, Inc: advisory member of Jack Wolfskin, United Biscuits and Intertrust Group.
position at Lonsdale: and independent consultant for the Boston Consulting Group.
Skills and experience: Chief Executive Officer of Kingfisher plc, Carlton Communications Skills and experience: White House Physician from 1995 to 2009, including Physician to plc, Exel plc, Greencore Group plc: senior operating roles at Grand Metropolitan plc the President of the United States from 2002 until retirement in 2009: Clinical Assistant now Diageo plc.
Holds a BSc and PhD in food technology from University College Professor at the Uniformed Services University: Brigadier General retired, US Air Force Cork and a MBS in Marketing from University College Dublin.
and various medical positions in the US Air Force.
Awarded his Doctor of Medicine in 1985.
9 Kieran Poynter 12 Savio Kwan Non-Executive Director 63 Non-Executive Director 65 British British Position: Non-Executive Director since 2010: Chairman of the Audit Committee: and member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Position: Non-Executive Director since 6 January 2014: member of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Nominations Committees.
Key appointments: NED, Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee and member of the Safety Committee of International Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. : Key appointments: Co-Founder and CEO of A&K Consulting Co Ltd, advising Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of the Nomination Committee of F&C Asset entrepreneurs and their start-up businesses in China: Visiting Professor at Henley Management plc: and Non-Executive Chairman of Nomura International PLC.
Skills and experience: Chartered Accountant: Chairman and Senior Partner of Skills and experience: Extensive business leadership experience in Greater China and  until 2008: served on the Presidents Committee of the Asia, gained at General Electric, BTR plc, and Alibaba Group, Chinas largest internet Confederation of British Industry and as member of an advisory committee for the business, where he was both Chief Operating Officer and, later, a Non-Executive Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Holds an MSc from Loughborough University and an MBA from London Business School.
10 Anthony Ruys Non-Executive Director 66 Dutch Position: Non-Executive Director since 2006: member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Will retire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Attendance at Board meetings in 2013 Key appointments: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of NV Luchthaven Schiphol NL : Attended Eligible Notes: member of the Supervisory Board of JANIVO Holdings BV NL : and NED of the Groups Name to attend 1.
Christine Morin-Postel missed one Indian associate, ITC Limited.
scheduled meeting due to a family Richard Burrows 7 7 bereavement: Karen fide Segundo missed Skills and experience: Marketing Director and Chairman of various Unilever subsidiaries: 1 Christine Morin-Postel 6 7 the ad-hoc meeting in December: member of Executive Board, Vice Chairman and Chairman of Heineken.
Holds a degree Kieran Poynter was unable to attend one Nicandro Durante 7 7 in Commercial Law from University of Utrecht and a Masters degree from Harvard scheduled meeting due to a long-standing Business School.
Sir Nicholas Scheele and Robert Lerwill retired as Non-Executive Directors at the 1 Karen fide Segundo 6 7 AGM on 25 April 2013.
Ann Godbehere 7 7 The Board held seven meetings in 2013.
Six Dr Gerry Murphy 7 7 of these were scheduled.
One meeting was 1 held off-site over two days, and was devoted Kieran Poynter 6 7 to strategy.
Six Board meetings are scheduled Anthony Ruys 7 7 for 2014.
Dr Richard Tubb 7 7 The Board of Directors is shown as at the date 2 of this Annual Report.
Sir Nicholas Scheele 2 2 2 Robert Lerwill 2 2 British American Tobacco 48 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Board of Directors continued Strategic Board activities in 2013 Delivering growth Growth Productivity In September, the Board held a two-day off-site meeting to approve the revised Group strategy.
The Groups plans for continued The Board pays close attention to the investment in high growth markets and Groups operational efficiency, and The Board discussed new marketing insights and explored with the Marketing Director how in non-combustibles is central to the our programmes aimed at delivering a these were informing brand development plans Boards annual agenda, ensuring that globally integrated enterprise with cost and driving the Groups innovation pipeline.
growth remains our key strategic focus.
The Groups integrated product and leaf strategy was discussed in detail, as was our Product Strategy Pathway process and plans forsecuring sustainable sources of high-quality tobacco that are aligned to product portfolios.
The Finance Director also led a session on costmanagement initiatives, investment opportunities, and strategic drivers to enable collaborative and efficient ways of working.
Activities in 2013 Activities in 2013 Reviewing and agreeing a re-articulation of Overseeing the rolling implementation of the the Group strategy: Groups new Operating Model and Global IT solution, anticipated to significantly improve Satisfying itself through the year that operating efficiency: management was on track to deliver the Groups strategy, and endorsing the direction Discussing the proposed strategic direction of and activities proposed by management to leaf supply, intended to ensure that the Group achieve its strategic metrics: can source greater quantities and secure a consistent supply of high-grade tobacco leaf: Considering the Groups innovation pipeline for combustible products in light of new Monitoring progress with the Groups Global consumer trends and insights, and how Product Intelligence team and reviewing how planned innovations can help strengthen its technical resources have been allocated to product portfolio: support identified priority projects: Considering the Groups vision, strategy Regularly reviewing the Groups liquidity, andpipeline for non-combustible products confirming that the Company was inlight of consumer research and the conforming with its financing principles, and regulatory landscape: noting planned refinancing activities for the For more information on our Group Strategy year ahead.
The Board also considered the Keeping the Groups trading and see pages 1011 of our Strategic Report Groups foreign exchange and counterparty performance under review, particularly the exposures: and performance of the Groups key markets and its Global Drive Brands: Considering a number of options and possible valuations of the Companys shares in order Receiving updates on the Groups Chinese to assess the benefits of continuing the joint operation, which commenced Groups share buy-back and to ensure that operations in 2013, and market initiatives in itwould continue to be earnings accretive.
Myanmar, the Philippines and Morocco: Discussing the Groups Risk Register and how it is kept under review, improving the Boards understanding of Group-wide and regional risks, and helping it determine the Groups risk appetite in the context of specific growth opportunities: Considering the potential impact on the business of specific risk factors in consultation with the Audit Committee for example, this year the chairman of the Audit Committee updated the Board on its detailed review of the risk to the Group of restricted cash when operating in countries where access to foreign exchange is more limited : and Considering opportunities for growth through future strategic acquisitions, andscrutinising managements postimplementation review of the acquisition ofProtabaco in Colombia in 2011.
British American Tobacco 49 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Improving sustainability Sustainability Winning organisation On the second day of its strategy meeting, the Board looked at how specific elements of our The Board places considerable emphasis Setting the tone from the top is an new strategy were being brought to life and on the need for our business to be important part of the Boards role, embedded within the organisation.
sustainable for the long term, to meet helping to foster a culture centred One of the Boards focus areas was our five the expectations of our stakeholders and around our Guiding Principles, and commitments to society, centred around inform our commitments to society.
ourefforts to deliver safer products, improve consumer information, support evidence-based regulation, maintain transparent business practices, and build stakeholder relationships.
The Board gave clear feedback and encouragement to Group management, stressing the Boards commitment to open andinformed debate on harm reduction, and supporting initiatives that will enable the Group to deliver its sustainability programme.
Activities in 2013 Activities in 2013 Discussing the Groups science-based Reviewing the development of the approach to harm reduction, the differing GroupsRemuneration Policy to be regulatory approaches to e-cigarette presentedto shareholders at the 2014 products, and receiving updates on the AnnualGeneral Meeting: Groups activities to secure regulatory Considering specific action plans and approvals for non-combustible enablersto promote diversity within the pipelineproducts: Group in terms of representation of women Considering further development plans and specific focus nationalities, and the forthe commercialisation of innovative, Groups 2020 aspirational targets for the regulatory-approved nicotine products and percentages of these employees in senior analysis of the potential for the Groups management roles: pipeline products, including Vype, in a Reviewing the progress being made in number of key markets: developing the Groups People and Approving a separate governance structure Organisation strategy.
In particular, the Board for the Groups non-combustibles business focused on improved recruitment, through toenable more dedicated, flexible and the Groups e-recruitment website and social reactive oversight in this fast-developing media activities, and tools to help areaof the business: performance and development: Reviewing planned investor relations activities Reviewing the talent pipeline to the for the year ahead, including initiatives to Management Board and confirming improve targeting and engagement with proposed appointments, in consultation theGroups principal shareholders: withthe Nominations Committee: Reviewing the Groups regulatory strategy Discussing the role of international inthe context of the current regulatory assignments in career development plans landscape, including plain packaging forsenior management: proposals outside Australia and, within the Reviewing detailed succession planning EU, the Tobacco Products Directive, and their atBoard level and Non-Executive Director potential implications for the business: appointments in light of medium and Approving new terms of reference for the long-term strategic drivers, resulting in CSRCommittee, allowing for more focused theappointment of Savio Kwan: and oversight of key sustainability issues and the Discussing the results of the externally integration of the Groups sustainability facilitated board evaluation exercise and agenda within its operations: and action points arising.
Discussing external analysts perspectives ofthe Group, and of the sector, presented byone of our brokers.
