British American Tobacco 50 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Board effectiveness Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Balance and diversity A balanced Board 1 Our Non-Executive Directors come from broad industry and 2 professional backgrounds, with varied experience and expertise aligned to the needs of our business.
A quarter of our Board are women.
Short biographies of the Directors, including details of relevant skills and experience, and nationalities, are set out in the Board of Directors pages in this section.
Promoting diversity The Board appreciates the benefit of diversity in all its forms, within 3 its own membership and at all levels of the Group.
The Board promotes diversity and is encouraging initiatives to improve gender diversity in senior management roles.
You can read more about our diversity policy, including the proportion of women in our total 1 Chairman 1 workforce and in senior management, in the sustainability section 2 Executive Directors 3 ofour Strategic Report on page 20.
3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 7 Independence and conflicts of interest Independence Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors to be independent, as they have not previously been employed in Group management 1 1 2 roles and are free from any business or other relationships that could interfere materially with, or appear to affect, their judgement.
Conflicts of interest The Board has formal procedures for managing conflicts of interest in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and may authorise situational conflicts under the Companys Articles of Association.
2 3 Directors are required to give advance notice of any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, and these are considered either at the next Board meeting or, if the timing requires it, at a meeting of the 3 Boards Conflicts Committee.
Each year, the Board considers afresh all previously authorised 1 0-3 years 2 situational conflicts.
Directors are excluded from the quorum 2 3-6 years 2 andvote in respect of any matters in which they have an interest.
3 6-9 years 3 No material conflicts were reported by Directors in 2013.
Gender split of Directors Information and professional development Board induction 1 On joining the Board, all Directors receive a full induction.
Non-Executive Directors also receive a full programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys business from the Executive Directors, members of the Management Board, the Company Secretary and other senior executives.
The expected time commitment from Non-Executive Directors for their induction is formalised 2 in our standard letter of appointment and visits to an overseas factory location and the Groups R&D facilities in Southampton arerequired elements.
Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director, Savio Kwan will be attending induction briefings covering the Groups strategy, organisational structure, business functions including 1 Male 8 Next-Generation Products, statutory reporting cycle, financing 2 Female 3 principles, IT strategy and legal and regulatory issues.
He will also attend sessions on corporate governance, internal control and risk Note: The above graphics reflect the composition of the Board as at 31 December 2013 prior to the management, and the role of the external auditors.
He will visit one appointment of Savio Kwan in January 2014. of the Groups factories, and has already visited our R&D facilities.
British American Tobacco 51 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Training and development The AGM is an opportunity for further shareholder engagement and for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress and, along with Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend meetings of the other members of the Board, to answer any questions.
All Directors Groups regional Audit and CSR committees, so that they have a attend, unless illness or pressing commitments prevents them.
good sense of the Groups regional operations.
The Non-Executive Details of our 2014 AGM are set out in the other disclosures section.
Directors are also each invited to attend a scheduled market visit alongside a Regional Director, so that they gain exposure to the Twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations reports to the Groups business on the ground.
In 2013, Non-Executive Directors Board on investor relations activities, identifying key issues visited Germany, Switzerland and Ukraine.
raised by institutional shareholders as well as a commentary on share price performance.
The Board receives a report at each The Board and its Committees receive regular briefings on legal meeting on any changes to the holdings of the Companys main and regulatory developments.
In 2013, these included updates institutional shareholders.
on proposed regulations that could affect our industry around the world, including the EU Tobacco Products Directive.
The Board Topics of discussion was also briefed on the Narrative Reporting requirements, This year, shareholders were keen to hear more about our strategy and the Remuneration Committee on the new regime for for product innovation in our combustible and non-combustible remuneration reporting.
businesses, and how innovation will drive future growth.
The Chairman meets each Non-Executive Director individually in They were also interested to discuss the latest developments in the latter part of each year to discuss their individual training and industry regulation, including the impact that plain packaging development plans.
Fulfilling the Audit Committees 2013 action has had in Australia, the potential impact of more plain packaging points, its members received detailed technical training, details of regulation worldwide and, in the EU, the Tobacco Products Directive.
which are set out in the Board evaluation summary in this section.
Macro economic issues, specifically our exposure to weakness in the For the Boards access to information and advice see Information and advice in the other disclosures section on page 107 Eurozone and to currency headwinds, continues to be of key interest to institutional investors.
At a market level, excise increases and the related issue of increased illicit trade were also regular topics.
Shareholder engagement Commitment to dialogue Board evaluation The Board is committed to high-quality dialogue with shareholders.
Evaluation process The Executive Directors lead in this respect, facilitated by the Head The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, the Executive and of Investor Relations.
The Chairman also contacts major shareholders Non-Executive Directors, and the Chairman, were assessed in 2013 periodically, and in advance of the AGM each year, so he can hear by an independent external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom their views and ensure that they are communicated to the Board.
The evaluation was conducted through in-depth The Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors interviews with each Board member and the facilitators attendance are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
at both a Board and CSR Committee meeting.
The Remuneration Committee chairman has also led a significant A report was prepared for the Board on the results of this exercise, shareholder engagement exercise on our remuneration policy, and the principal Committees considered reports on their own details of which can be found in the Remuneration report.
He wrote effectiveness, drawn from the comments made in the Board report.
to 39 institutions, 33 of which provided feedback on the policy, and he had follow-up meetings or calls with 19 of them.
While the Board and each of its Committees are considered to be fully effective, fresh action points were identified.
A summary of the Annual programme findings is set out in the accompanying table.
Our progress against A full programme of engagement with shareholders, potential 2012 action points is also included in the summary.
investors and analysts, in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each year by the Head of Investor Relations.
He is often accompanied by Constructive feedback one or more Executive Directors and Management Board members.
In addition, the Chairman received a verbal report from Dr Long on the performance of each of the Executive and Non-Executive Of these, over 420 meetings were held in 2013 with over 295 of Directors.
A report on the Chairmans own performance was the Companys institutional shareholders in 22 countries, spanning prepared for the Senior Independent Director.
In terms of percentage shareholding, the Company was given by Dr Long to all Board members.
All Board members spoke with the owners of the majority of its shares.
The Chairman continued to perform well, and each was considered to be making had nine personal meetings with major shareholders in the year.
an effective contribution to the Board.
Regular investor presentations were also given, and these together with the results presentations are all published on www.
For disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and All results presentations are available to shareholders by webcast.
Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006 see the other disclosures section on pages 105111 In addition, there is a debt micro site on www.
com for debt investors, with comprehensive bondholder information on credit ratings, debt facilities, outstanding bonds and maturity profiles.
British American Tobacco 52 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Board effectiveness continued Board evaluation in 2013 Culture and Composition Strategy and dynamics and tenure operations Board dynamics are good, The strength of the Its an exciting new world, with quality leadership, executives knowledge, which has caught our and no factions.
We debate and the Boards desire for imagination as the the issues against a solid debate, demand a high Board, we need to background.
level of NonExecutive understand the drivers.
Non-Executive Director Dr Tracy Long, External Facilitator Non-Executive Director Findings Findings Findings the Board has an open and transparent the composition of the Board, and its the Boards strategic debate is encouraged culture, encouraging active debate and a rollingtenure, combines a variety of bythe Chief Executive, and facilitated by the sophisticated level of challenge and enquiry: professional experience: annual off-site meeting dedicated to strategy: there is full cooperation between the Board membership combines a diverse blend the underlying performance of the business is Executive and Non-Executive Directors: of intuitive and analytical perspectives: closely scrutinised by executive management: there is no group-think within the Non-Executive portfolio experience has been the competitive, customer and regulatory Board, andeach director has a strong useful in improving internal processes such landscapes are clearly visible to the Board, independent mindset: asrisk management : and and a core part of the executive teams regular updates: the Chairman is a good listener, as the business faces shifting consumer managingthe Board with an effective behaviour and changing trends, the Board the Board receives high-quality andconsensual style: would benefit from more experience of fast consumerresearch: changing consumer landscapes and fast the CEO is a strong, performance orientated innovation and regulation are both decision-making environments which are leader who knows the business well: and recognised to be at the forefront of the often present in technology dependent, Boards agenda: and there is an even contribution by all Directors lessregulated, industries.
across the variety of topics discussed at the Board is attuned to market sentiment Boardmeetings.
andfeedback from shareholder road-shows isvalued.
Action points for 2014 Action points for 2014 Action points for 2014 Maintaining balance: recognising the strength FMCG experience: experience in FMCG is Stakeholder views: the CSR Committee will of the Boards culture and dynamics, the likelyto be a sector priority for the next now incorporate an annual review of composition matrix considered by the roundof Board appointees: and stakeholder maps into its agenda.
Nominations Committee should factor in the Non-financial expertise: as the Board is balance of individual approaches and styles in strongin financial expertise, it could addition to specific professional expertise.
accommodate more operational line management experience.
Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Director induction: following Dr Richard Tubbs Board and Committee balance and skills: the CSR peer comparison: the CSR Committee appointment to the Board in early 2013, he shortlisting and interviewing of candidates reviewed how the Company compared to was appointed as a member of the CSR with technology-based skills and or an Asian itsindustry peers in terms of delivery and Committee and completed a full induction business background culminated in Savio reporting of its CSR agenda: and programme that included visits to the Groups Kwans appointment to the Board in January Shareholder engagement: the Chairman and R&D facilities in Southampton and our factory 2014.
His background in the internet business, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in Bayreuth, Germany.
com, also provides welcome technical met together with institutions and key experience to the Board.
shareholders to discuss corporate governance and remuneration.
British American Tobacco 53 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk and Performance Process and control management use of time Our regional Audit and CSR People love to work for our The Board, as a whole, is not committees are where the company.
There is loyalty there to run the business, rubber hits the road in terms and passion amongst but when we meet we are of our internal controls.
senior and junior people, 100% focused.
As NonExecutives, we see and a strong leadership thisfirsthand.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Findings Findings Findings all Directors commended the quality of the strong and positive corporate culture was the Boards use of time was commended for financial information, noting that it was nurtured by the Chief Executive: the rhythm of meetings across the year and selective, current, reliable and well analysed: the use of Board dinners to continue strategic succession planning is seen as a particular debate and succession planning in a less the approach and contribution of the FD, and strength, as is the leadership and formal setting: his strong working relationship with the Audit development programme: Committee chairman were highlighted: the Board agenda allowed Directors to there had been valuable consultation with familiarise themselves with the Group and the transparency of the regional and institutional shareholders on remuneration meet a variety ofoperational management corporate audit programmes gave confidence matters: during market visits: to the Board: the Non-Executive Directors described the the healthy split of presentation and debate the relationship with the external auditors revisedremuneration policies as sensible, during Board meetings was felt to enable a was described as both professional and disciplined and aligned: and tailored approach to the variety of topics on challenging: and the Board would need to retain its focus on the agenda: the high-level review of risks at Board level how management would be promoting the the Board is well supported by the Company was facilitated by the comprehensive and Groups diversity agenda.
Secretarial team, which was acknowledged open executive approach to risk, and the tobe effective, experienced and trusted: and Groups risk registers were commended as living documents.
feedback on Directors market visits could beimproved.
Action points for 2014 Action points for 2014 Action points for 2014 CSR coverage on market visits: in addition to Diversity: following detailed presentations to Market visit feedback: as market visits have gaining an overview of the Groups in-country the Board on executive diversity in 2013, the been redesigned to encourage small operations during market visits, additional Board will continue to scrutinise plans to groupsof Directors to visit a range of sites focus on relevant CSR and sustainability promote gender diversity in senior throughout the year, those Directors will issueswill be incorporated into the agenda management roles and diversity in its nowgive a brief update to the Board on foreach visit.
broadest sense across the business.
Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Progress in 2013 Training: as part of its new annual training Remuneration policy: the Remuneration Chairmans briefings: the Chairman now programme, the Audit Committee received a Committee conducted a full review of the provides a regular update at Board meetings technical and governance briefing on topical Groups remuneration policies and we have on his activities and meetings with investors issues including narrative reporting, updates to made a number of proposed changes to and institutions: the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the improve the alignment of Group KPIs to Group Board agenda: the Chairman and Company latest views of the Competition Commission strategy, in consultation with shareholders.
Secretary conducted a review of the frequency onaudit tendering: of meetings and regular agenda items: and Induction: the new Audit Committee chairman Focus on sustainability: the CSR Committee received an induction, which included meeting refocused its forward agenda and terms of the external audit engagement partner and reference to reduce overlap with the work Head of Internal Audit: and ofthe Audit Committee and devote more Oversight: the Audit Committee received ofitstime to the Groups core sustainability anin-depth global overview of internal audit agenda including youth smoking prevention, required actions and how these were tracked, responsible tobacco marketing, diversity, including a focus on actions relevant to the human rights, health and safety, and roll-out of the Groups revised Operating sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods.
Model and single IT operating system.
