Governance Corporate governance statement The corporate governance statement details ICAPs governance Balance of the board framework and its management practices and, together with the remuneration report on pages 68 to 78, sets out how the Company 1 Chairman has complied with the Code for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Independent non-executive The Code is publicly available at www.
directors 3 Executive directors ICAP is headed by an appropriately experienced board which comprises a non-executive Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Executive Director Americas, the Group Finance Director and four independent non-executive directors.
All ICAPs 4 directors have a good understanding of ICAPs markets, the regions and regulatory frameworks in which it operates and its technology.
Details of the directors who held office during the year and the skills and experience each director brings to the board are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Directors tenure There are five committees of the board the Governance Committee, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the 1 1 2 years Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Each 2 2 5 years of these board committees is chaired by a non-executive director 5 years or the Chairman.
The minutes of the meetings of each of the committees are made available to all directors and the board receives an update from each committee chairman following committee meetings.
There are three executive committees the Global Executive Management Group, the Global Operating Committee and the 5 Group Risk and Capital Committee.
These executive committees are mandated by and report to the board.
The executive committees operate under terms of reference approved by the Governance Committee and minutes of the meetings are circulated to the board.
ICAP plc 54 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance framework Board Approves the Groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy, budget and signi cant acquisitions, investments and disposals Determines the Groups risk appetite and risk management strategy Approves changes to capital structure Approves the Groups financial statements and its interim management statements Approves the interim dividend and recommends the final dividend Governance Audit Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Reviews and challenges Reviews the quality and the integrity of external eff ectiveness of the Reviews and approves Sets remuneration and Reviews the structure, financial reporting Groups risk management the Group Policies and pension policies for the size and composition of Reviews the Groups framework Delegated Authorities executive directors the board and makes internal financial controls Monitors the Reviews and approves Appoints any recommendations with Monitors and reviews the mechanisms of internal the design and delivery of remuneration consultants regard to any changes eff ectiveness of the control of those areas of training provided to the who advise the Nominates candidates to Groups internal and risk identi ed throughout Companys directors and committee ll board vacancies as the Group external auditors subsidiary directors Approves contracts of they arise Reviews and approves Considers the Approves the terms of employment with terms Keeps under review the risk appetite appointment of the reference and that exceed certain leadership needs of the Reviews and approves external auditors and membership of the agreed levels of duration, organisation and the Groups annual ICAAP assesses their non-executive and notice period or considers succession and document including independence executive committees compensation development planning assumptions and Makes recommendations Approves the for senior executives methodology underlying to the board relating to composition of the the calculations of the the appointment or boards of the Groups Pillar 2 capital dismissal of the Head of principal nancing Approves the Internal Audit subsidiaries and the appointment or dismissal Reviews the major regulated entities of the Global Chief Risk findings and Reviews the Groups core Offi cer and the Group recommendations of governance standards Head of Compliance internal and external Reviews and determines Reviews the major audit reports reputational risk issues findings and Approves external related to proposed new recommendations of audit fees business initiatives or internal auditors transactions Monitors the Approves new regulatory independence of the permissions risk and compliance functions Global Executive Global Operating Committee Group Risk and Management Group Capital Committee Reviews matters aff ecting the operations of the Group Proposes commercial strategy to Reviews and makes recommendations in Oversees the implementation of the board relation to: strategic directives Oversees the commercial performance the control environment and risk pro le Assesses the adequacy of Group of the business of the Group infrastructure to support the business the Groups capital structure and liquidity requirements Group policies and delegated authorities FX and interest rate risk management Full details of the terms of reference for the board committees can be found at www.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 55 Executive committees Board committees Governance Corporate governance statement continued Board meetings The board Total Attended The board is responsible for providing leadership of the Group and Charles Gregson 6 6 for ensuring the Group has the appropriate people, financial resources and controls in place to deliver on the long-term Michael Spencer 6 6 objectives, commercial strategy and risk management strategy set John Nixon 6 6 by the board.
Details of the business model and the Groups strategic Iain Torrens 6 6 objectives are detailed within the business review on pages 8 to 13 Hsieh Fu Hua 6 5 and 16 and 17.
The board operates in accordance with an approved Diane Schueneman 6 6 schedule of matters reserved for the board.
The board specifies policies and delegated authorities that all members of the Group are John Sievwright 6 6 required to adhere to.
Details of the principal matters reserved for Robert Standing 6 6 the board and principal terms of reference of the board committees are shown on page 55.
Apologies had been received in advance for the unavoidable absence from a board meeting by Hsieh Fu Hua.
There is a clear division between the role of Chairman, who is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring effective The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors and the communication with shareholders, and the Group Chief Executive Group Company Secretary, sets the agenda for board meetings.
All Officer, who is responsible for leading and managing the business directors receive documentation prior to each meeting on the within the limits delegated to him by the board.
The board maintains matters to be discussed to enable them to exercise their judgement a written policy on the division of responsibilities between the in discharge of their duties.
Where directors are unable to attend a Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer which sets out the board or committee meeting, mainly as a result of long-standing key responsibilities of each role.
prior engagements, they are encouraged to give the chairman of the meeting their views or comments.
Directors also receive Six board meetings were scheduled during the year.
Between these management information on a monthly basis.
GEMG members and meetings, the board convened by conference call to receive trading other senior executives attend meetings by invitation to present reports and updates on current issues.
During the year, the nonon their areas of expertise within the business.
The table below executive directors also met without the executive directors highlights some of the agenda items considered by the board during present.
The table opposite sets out the number of meetings of the the year in addition to standard items covering its regular review of board attended by directors in office at 31 March 2013. the business.
Summary of board business during the year ended 31 March 2013 May 2012 London November 2012 London Report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012 Half-year report for the six months to 30 September 2012 report from chairman of Audit Committee report from chairman of Audit Committee going concern paper interim dividend recommendation final dividend recommendation Strategy review following EBS restructure ICAP Group strategy Update on financial regulatory reform, including SEF and EMIR HR strategy Approval of succession plan Review of IT strategy and key cost projects July 2012 London February 2013 London Financial futures and options presentation Approval of interim management statement Structured products business presentation Board and committees effectiveness review ICAP electronic business presentation Competitor analysis review Review of HR strategy and succession plan ISDX strategy presentation Restructure of the ICAP Brazil business Global Business Services and Infrastructure IT update Update on regulatory, litigation and reputational risks September 2012 Tokyo March 2013 Jersey City Approval of interim management statement Approval of pre-close statement Review of investments Review of shareholder perception survey Update on financial regulatory reform, including SEF and EMIR Global Broking customer analysis Asia Pacific regional update Strategy process ICAP plc 56 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Induction and continuing professional Governance Committee development The board is committed to strengthening the Groups governance On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a full framework and to operating a well controlled and appropriately governed business.
During the year, the board established the and formal induction.
This covers training and briefings, including directors duties and the UK listing regime, an overview of the Governance Committee to further support this commitment.
business, its operations, risk and regulatory matters, governance, The Governance Committee is made up of the Chairman of the finance and investor relations.
board, the senior independent director, the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
The Chairman of the board is During the year, directors receive regular briefings on changes and developments in the Groups business and on any relevant legislative the chairman of the committee and the Group General Counsel is a standing attendee of the Governance Committee.
and regulatory changes from senior management and external advisors as appropriate.
This year there has been a particular focus The role of the Governance Committee is to review, offer on the global financial regulatory reform.
All directors are encouraged recommendations and make decisions in relation to all aspects of the to identify specific development needs.
Directors also attend governance environment of the Group and its principal subsidiaries.
external courses of specific relevance to their responsibilities.
The following table sets out the directors who served on the Board evaluation Governance Committee since its formation in September 2012 and their committee meeting attendance.
In 2011 12 the board undertook its first evaluation using an external facilitator, Lintstock.
A number of items were identified in Governance Committee meetings the evaluation for board focus during 2012 13 and included in the Total Attended summary of board business on page 56.
Significant progress was Charles Gregson chairman 3 3 made in a number of these areas, for example increased efficiency John Sievwright 3 3 from the business model business restructuring and the cost Michael Spencer 3 2 saving programme and the regulatory environment SEF and EMIR.
Iain Torrens 3 3 During 2012 13, an evaluation of the board and the board Apologies had been received in advance for the unavoidable absence committees was again conducted using Lintstock as the external from a committee meeting by Michael Spencer.
facilitator, while an evaluation of the Chairman was conducted by the The responsibilities of the Governance Committee are described in senior independent director.
Lintstock did not provide any other detail in its terms of reference available on the Groups website, advisory services to ICAP during the year.
conducted via a questionnaire of each board member and the Group Company Secretary.
The objective of the evaluation was to provide During the year, the committee met to discuss governance insight into the effectiveness of the board and to review actions for oversight of the Groups regulated entities, the Americas governance improving performance.
The evaluation for 2012 13 recognised framework and it reviewed the Groups policies and delegated that some of the items previously identified continued to be workauthorities.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee in-progress and would remain on the boards agenda as focus items.
and the executive committees were reviewed by their committees during the year and the new terms of reference were subsequently The outcome of the review confirmed that the board has a good approved for adoption by the Governance Committee.
knowledge and understanding of the views of major investors and stakeholders, the markets in which the Group operates and the The committee was formed in September 2012 and, as it has not technology issues facing the business.
been active for a full year, it did not form part of this years board effectiveness review.
The effectiveness of the Governance In evaluating how the board manages its time, the following items Committee will be reviewed during the course of next year.
have been identified as requiring further board oversight and have been included in the board schedule for 2013 14: the Groups strategy: key customer analysis: developing technology and IT strategy: and shareholder perception.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 57 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Groups finance function is organised on a business division basis Audit Committee under the leadership of the Group Finance Director.
This function is The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive responsible for both the day-to-day management and strategic directors, appointed by the board on the recommendation of the development of the Groups finance infrastructure together with Nomination Committee.
The board is satisfied that the chairman of ensuring that Group policies have been adopted and appropriate the Audit Committee and the committee collectively have recent controls put in place to enable accurate and timely reporting of and relevant financial experience that enables it to function consolidated financial information for management, regulatory effectively and discharge its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee has delegated The following table sets out the directors who served on the Audit responsibility for the day-to-day financial management and Committee during the year and their committee meeting monitoring of financial controls to the GRACC.
Further details of the attendance.
responsibilities of this executive committee are included on page 55.
Audit Committee meetings The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls Total Attended and the reports of management and the internal auditors on the John Sievwright chairman 5 5 effectiveness of these systems for internal financial control and Diane Schueneman 5 4 financial reporting.
Robert Standing 5 5 The results of the evaluation of the Audit Committee showed that the effectiveness of the Audit Committee at reviewing the quality of Apologies had been received in advance for the unavoidable absence the Groups financial reporting and assessing the Groups system of from a committee meeting by Diane Schueneman.
internal controls was highly rated.
Other attendees at the Audit Committee include: Evaluation of external auditors Chairman of the board During the financial year, the Audit Committee reviewed and Group Finance Director approved the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the Deputy Group CFO 2012 13 audit and recommended to the board that it proposes to Group Head of Internal Audit shareholders that  LLP be re-appointed as Group General Counsel the Groups external auditors for 2013 14.
CFO Group Finance The committee also monitored the balance of audit and non-audit External audit partner fees to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external The chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact with auditors is maintained.
During the year,  LLP attendees throughout the year.
At least twice a year the committee was one of the main providers of external advice but its work was meets with the external auditors and the Group Head of Internal limited to specific areas, largely relating to tax and fixed-term Audit without any executive director or member of management regulatory projects, and the services of other firms were used on an present.
The principal areas of the committees work during the year are Any proposed non-audit assignments, with fees in excess of 100,000, summarised below.
are subject to the Audit Committees prior approval and fees below this limit are approved by the chairman of the Audit Committee and reported Financial reporting to the committee.
Note 5 to the financial statements details the fees The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies, it paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services.
The total monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including spend on non-audit services as a percentage of the audit fee was 20% the half-year and annual reports and interim management 2011 12 32%.
This is compliant with ICAPs policy of non-audit statements, and other announcements relating to the Groups spend not exceeding 75% of the audit fee.
financial performance to ensure that these present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups financial position and outlook.
This As part of its consideration of the 2012 13 financial statements, the external reporting uses data produced by the regional finance teams committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors have and relies on systems and processes functioning correctly.
A filing remained independent of the Group during the financial year and assurance review process, reporting to the Audit Committee, is in continued to do so to the date of this report.
The committee also place in respect of half-year and full-year reporting.
received details from  LLP of its own independence procedures and confirmation that, in its opinion, it remained independent throughout the year.
The assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process for 2011 12 was undertaken following the completion of the audit for that year.
The results of this assessment were reviewed by the Audit Committee in November 2012 and a number of actions were agreed.
The assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process for 2012 13 will be undertaken in June 2013.
ICAP plc 58 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information  LLP, and its predecessor organisations, has The committee also meets with the Group Head of Internal Audit been the Companys auditors since the Company was formed from without any executive director or member of management present.
the merger of Garban and Intercapital in 1999.
The committee In addition to the regular topics detailed in the terms of reference, considers that the relationship with the external auditors is working the committee also discussed a number of additional matters during well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has the 2012 13 year including: not considered it necessary to require  LLP impact of external risk events and changes in the regulatory to tender for the audit work although this is kept under review environment: particularly in light of the FRCs changes to the Code.
There are integrated assurance review of the Brazil business: no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of clearing and settlement agents risk review: external auditors.
business risk updates: Following the boards decision in 2011 12 to extend the term of the IT internal audits: lead audit partner on the basis that such continuity was necessary ISDX risk analysis: following a number of board changes and the increase in regulatory presentation from business on control issues: and scrutiny, the lead audit partner was rotated in 2012 13 following business control updates.
the completion of the audit of the 2011 12 financial statements.
The Risk Committee increased its number of meetings during the The performance of the Audit Committee was rated highly overall in year in order to give additional focus to the ICAAP.
this years evaluation and separating the responsibilities of the Audit The board believes that a sound control environment and robust and Risk Committees has been beneficial to the focus of the Audit risk management are fundamental to ICAPs success.
The Risk Committee and to its effectiveness.
As a result of the evaluation the Committee, as delegated by the board, sets the overall risk strategy Audit Committee has added the following items to their workplan and risk appetite methodology for the Group.
The Risk Committee for 2013 14: is also responsible for approving the appointment and dismissal of assessment of the impact of the changes in regulation on financial the Global Chief Risk Officer and the Group Head of Compliance and controls: and for making recommendations to the Remuneration Committee regarding their compensation, thereby reinforcing the independence review of the obligations of a recognised investment exchange.
of the risk and compliance functions.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee has delegated the day-to-day risk management of the Group to the GRACC, an executive committee which meets at The Risk Committee members are all independent non-executive least ten times a year.
The GRACCs responsibilities are centred on directors, appointed by the board on the recommendation of the the monitoring of liquidity, credit, market and financial risks.
The following table sets out the directors of the committees responsibilities are shown on page 55. who served on the Risk Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GRACC have terms of reference that require all aspects of the Groups risk Risk Committee meetings management activities to be regularly reviewed.
Total Attended John Sievwright chairman 7 7 The Global Chief Risk Officer and Group Head of Compliance are members of the GRACC and the Group Head of Internal Audit is a Diane Schueneman 7 5 standing attendee of the GRACC.
The Global Chief Risk Officer is also Robert Standing 7 7 a member of the GOC, the executive committee with responsibility Apologies had been received in advance for the unavoidable absence for the operations of the Group.
from committee meetings by Diane Schueneman.
In addition to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee, the Other attendees at the Risk Committee include: GOC and the GRACC, all lines of business and regions have risk committees which are responsible for supervising risk levels in their Chairman of the board respective businesses and regions and acting as the interface Group Finance Director between front office management and the Group risk function.
Deputy Group CFO Global Chief Risk Officer As a result of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Risk Group Head of Compliance Committee, the following priorities were identified for 2013 14: Group Head of Internal Audit continue to provide support to the Global Chief Risk Officer: and Group General Counsel External audit partner impact of regulatory change on the Groups risk and controls framework.
The Global Chief Risk Officer presents his assessment of ICAPs risks to the Risk Committee at least twice a year without any executive management being present.
The chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with attendees throughout the year.
ICAP plc 59 Annual Report 2013 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Risk control and management framework First line of defence Business unit: process and risk owners Owns the risk management process Identi es, manages, mitigates and reports on risk Tracks loss data Second line of defence Compliance Risk management Interpret Design Provides interpretation of regulations and Designs and deploys the overall risk management and develop and facilitate disseminates to business units framework across the organisation Monitors compliance with regulations Monitors business unit adherence to framework Develops and monitors policies and procedures and strategy Monitor Monitor Risk assessment based compliance testing Compiles risk across business units and escalates and report and report Advises on regulatory issues and provides training risk and control issues to senior management Performs aggregated risk reporting Third line of defence Internal audit Provides independence testing and veri cation of effi cacy of corporate standard and business line compliance Monitor and advise Validates the overall risk framework Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identi es improvement opportunities The significant risks of the Group are continually monitored, assessed The Groups independent control functions risk, compliance and and managed by operating a three lines of defence model for the risk internal audit are responsible for ensuring that the control management and control of the businesses.
The first line of defence environment is fit for purpose and able to identify and escalate to comprises senior business and executive management who own the senior management the Groups key risks and to mitigate these risks risks and controls for their respective businesses and retain full where appropriate.
accountability for control-related business issues.
The second line of The Group has created an integrated control framework for the defence comprises the compliance and risk management functions.
three key control functions of risk, compliance and internal audit.
In These functions are responsible for the Groups risk framework and providing assurance as to the effectiveness of the system of internal infrastructure and identify, monitor, mitigate and report key risks.
controls to the GRACC, the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee The internal audit function provides the third line of defence by and the board, these three key control functions will, where making a systematic and disciplined evaluation of the business, appropriate and on a planned basis, combine resources, skills and control and governance frameworks, structures, processes and technical expertise in the conduct of monitoring, oversight and methodologies operating within the Group.
A key tenet of the three lines of defence model is that the senior management of the Group, in particular those senior managers with responsibility for overseeing the front, middle and back office functions, are responsible for all control-related business issues and have full accountability for the management of the risks in their businesses, within the limits and the control environment established by the Group.
All staff and managers are required to take a prudent approach to risk taking and to regularly review the effectiveness of their control environment predominantly through a risk and control self-assessment process.
ICAP plc 60 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Risk management Board Group Chief Executive Officer Member: Risk Committee Global Executive Management Group Group General Counsel Member: Global Executive Management Group Global Operating Committee Group Risk and Capital Committee Standing attendee: Risk Committee Global Chief Risk Officer Member: Global Operating Committee Group Risk and Capital Committee Standing attendee: Risk Committee Head of Business Regional Continuity and Head of Head of Group Liquidity Heads of Risk Information Operational Risk Credit Risk Risk Director Security Risk department Business heads credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system with near The Groups risk management function operates under the mandate real-time monitoring of credit exposure globally: set by the board.
The Global Chief Risk Officer reports to the Group General Counsel.
Under the leadership of regional heads, with management information, including key risk indicators and product guidance from the global risk function to ensure standard best and region specific dashboards: practice, risk departments support each of the businesses globally global risk management policies and procedures: and are members of business level and regional risk committees.
The Global Chief Risk Officer is a member of the GOC and the GRACC operational risk framework: and is a standing attendee of the Risk Committee.
periodic risk and control self assessments and process maps: and Day-to-day management of risk and its mitigation is the stress testing on current exposure and scenario and probability responsibility of business heads.
Risk management provides an analysis.
independent assessment of the Groups risks and supports the business heads in identifying, monitoring, mitigating and reporting A number of qualitative and quantitative measures are monitored by key risks through the use of a range of tools.
In this way, risk risk management to ensure that the businesses risks remain within management reviews the Groups activities both functionally acceptable risk appetite and tolerances.
Using these measures, the and globally.
Group produces a number of risk intelligence reports which are disseminated through the governance structures at all levels as These tools include: appropriate.
independent monitoring and analysis of the Groups current and projected liquidity exposures: ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 61 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Compliance management Board Group Finance Director Member: Global Executive Management Group Risk Committee Group Risk and Capital Committee Standing attendee: Risk Committee Group Head of Compliance Member: Group Risk and Capital Committee Standing attendee: Risk Committee Group compliance department Head of Compliance, EMEA Head of Compliance, Americas Head of Compliance, Asia Pacic Member: Member: Member: Business level and regional Business level and regional Business level and regional risk committees risk committees risk committees Compliance departments laundering compliance and the reporting and escalation of potential The Groups compliance department reports to the Group Head and crystallised risks.
of Compliance who in turn reports to the Group Finance Director.
Dedicated compliance departments support the businesses The Groups compliance department undertakes an annual risk operating in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific regions, each under assessment in each region as the basis for the annual compliance the leadership of regional heads of compliance who are members of plan for those legal entities, desks, offices, business and operating regional and business level risk committees.
The Group Head of units which will be the subject of compliance review and Compliance is a member of the GRACC and is a standing attendee examination.
ICAPs compliance risk management framework is risk of the Risk Committee.
based, which means that ICAP assesses and ranks its compliance risks and prioritises its compliance resources accordingly on a Group, The Groups compliance department operates under the mandate regional and business unit basis.
This mandate, inter alia, establishes the compliance department as an independent global control and assurance function which implements and manages ICAPs compliance risk management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that ICAPs business is conducted in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory standards.
As such, the compliance risk management framework incorporates the requirements of applicable law and published international best practice standards including business advisory support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, compliance monitoring and surveillance, anti-money ICAP plc 62 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Internal control Nomination Committee The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise a management and the internal control system, which management is majority of independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit the committee is appointed by the board and is required to be either Committee and the Risk Committee.
The day-to-day business of the the Chairman of the board or an independent non-executive Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and director.
The Chairman of the board does not chair the committee compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management when it is dealing with the matter of succession of the Chairman systems.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than of the board.
eliminate risks and can only provide reasonable and not absolute The following table sets out the directors who served on the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Nomination Committee during the year and their committee The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and meeting attendance.
Internal control procedures for joint ventures and Nomination Committee meetings associates rest with the senior management of these operations and Total Attended the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert influence Charles Gregson chairman 2 2 through board representation.
The boards review of the effectiveness Michael Spencer 2 2 of the system of internal control in those entities is consequently less Hsieh Fu Hua 1 1 comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
Diane Schueneman 2 1 The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly John Sievwright 2 2 by the independent internal audit function.
The internal audit function reports to the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee with respect to Robert Standing 2 2 financial controls and functionally to the Group Finance Director.
Apologies had been received in advance for the unavoidable absence Internal audit establishes an annual audit plan based on discussions from a committee meeting by Diane Schueneman.
with management and an assessment of the risks inherent in the Groups activities.
The results of these audits provide assurance External advisors and individuals such as the Global Head of HR are to executive management and the Audit Committee and Risk invited to attend meetings when appropriate.
Committee that the system of internal control achieves its The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are described in its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for improvement.
terms of reference available on the Groups website, www.
The internal audit function is outsourced to KPMG.
An evaluation of the KPMG internal audit team was undertaken during the year During the year, the committee met to discuss board composition and the results of the client service review were reviewed by the and also to consider succession planning in respect of the Group Audit Committee.
The results of the evaluation confirmed that Chief Operating Officer who resigned during the year.
challenge from the internal audit process is robust and effective As a result of the evaluation of the Nomination Committee, and process improvements, which were identified by the review, are being implemented.
the following priorities were identified for 2013 14: review and revise succession planning: and review the size and composition of the board.
Any recruitment for a non-executive director will be considered using the same selection policy as that used throughout the Group.
While we welcome the focus on board diversity, we do not support the implementation of quotas and all appointments will continue to be based on merit.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 63 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The CFO Americas and the Group Head of Internal Audit are standing Executive committees attendees of GRACC meetings.
Global Executive Management Group The GRACC reports to the board, the Governance Committee, the The committee members are: Audit Committee and the Risk Committee as required and provides Group Chief Executive Officer, chairman advice to the GEMG and the GOC on an own-initiative basis.
Group Executive Director Americas Relations and dialogue with shareholders Group Finance Director Collectively the board is accountable to the Companys shareholders Business Chief Executive Officers and seeks to promote good relations and effective dialogue with its Group General Counsel shareholders.
The board receives regular investor reports which detail the feedback from investor meetings and roadshows attended The GEMG reports to the board and will receive advice on by executive directors and senior management and also receives the operational, risk and implementation issues from the GOC and may results of investor perception studies which are undertaken by ask the GOC to oversee the implementation of its decisions.
The movements on the share register are Global Operating Committee reviewed at board meetings.
The committee members are: The Chairman of the board and the executive directors have met with key shareholders during the year to understand investor views Group Finance Director on the Company.
Investors use these meetings to raise issues such Deputy Group CFO, chairman as the impact of regulatory change on ICAPs business, the changes Group General Counsel in the competitive environment, the potential for consolidation Global Chief Risk Officer within the interdealer broker market, the impact of management changes on the EBS business, the dividend policy and the cost Global Head of HR saving programme.
Head of Global Business Services The Company publishes its half and full-year financial statements, Head of Infrastructure IT stock exchange announcements and analyst presentations via the Business Chief Operating Officers investor relations section of its website, www.
In addition, there are regular meetings during the year with analysts and The GOC reports to the board, the Audit Committee, the Risk investors subject to regulatory constraints to update them on Committee and the GEMG, as appropriate, as well as taking developments in the Groups strategy and performance.
Investor commercial direction from the GEMG.
The committee provides seminars on specific areas of ICAPs businesses are arranged during advice to the GEMG as requested and on an own-initiative basis.
the year and these presentations are made available on Group Risk and Capital Committee ICAPs website.
The committee members are: The Companys annual general meeting provides shareholders with Group Finance Director, chairman an opportunity to ask questions of the directors on the Groups business.
All directors attended the 2012 annual general meeting.
Deputy Group CFO Group General Counsel Group Head of Compliance Global Chief Risk Officer CFO Group Finance CFO Global Broking ICAP plc 64 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Substantial shareholders Share capital At 31 March 2013, and at 10 May 2013, the last practicable date The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of 10p each, prior to publication, the Company has been notified of the following all of which are fully paid.
664,537,006 shares were in issue at voting rights in its issued share capital disclosable under the FCAs 31 March 2013, including Treasury Shares.
Subject to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Companys articles of association and prevailing legislation, each Percentage of voting rights ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote per Substantial shareholders Indirect % Direct % Total % share on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
Michael Spencer, together with INFBV 18,346,181 2011 12 18,294,235 Treasury Shares were held and INCAP Overseas B. V. 16.26 0.55 16.81 by the Company at 31 March 2013 representing 2.76% of the Schroders plc 12.05 12.05 issued share capital.
Such shares carry neither voting rights nor an entitlement to a dividend while held as Treasury Shares.
There are no Silchester International Investors LLP 5.16 5.16 other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
FIL Limited 5.06 - 5.06 The Company purchased 97,523 of its own shares during the Blackrock Inc. 5.01 - 5.01 period under review at a price of 357.727p per share, representing Newton Investment Management Limited 4.94 4.94 0.015% of the issued share capital.
These shares are held as AXA SA 3.80 0.81 4.61 Treasury Shares.
As at 31 March 2013, and at 10 May 2013, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to a Michael Spencer, together with trusts for the benefit of his children maximum of 64,509,631 ordinary shares of 10p each.
All changes of which he is one of joint trustees, owns a majority shareholding in in share capital are detailed in note 19 to the financial statements.
IPGL, of which INFBV is a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Accordingly, Michael Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP The ICAP and Garban Trusts hold ordinary shares which may be used plc held by INFBV and its wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas to satisfy options and awards granted under the Companys share B. V. totalling 105,069,560 shares.
A trust of which Michael plans.
The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP and Spencer's children are beneficiaries and he is a joint trustee owns Garban Trusts are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with a further 50,000 shares and 3,516,558 shares are held by EES their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends has been waived Trustees International Ltd as trustee of the ICAP Trust.
The shares in respect of the shares held in the ICAP and Garban Trusts.
As at held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under 31 March 2013, share awards and options existed over the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of which 16,117,790 of the Companys ordinary shares in relation to there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment employee share awards and option schemes.
Michael Spencer has an interest in a further 3,284 share 6,193,738 are awards and options over existing shares which are options under the SAYE scheme and holds 7,061 shares in his held in employee share trusts.
The remainder are expected to be own name.
satisfied by either new issues of shares or by a transfer of Treasury Shares.
Changes in options and awards under the various schemes Annual general meeting are detailed in note 21 to the financial statements.
The rules of the The fifteenth annual general meeting of the Company will be held on Companys share plans contain provisions which may cause options Wednesday, 10 July 2013.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed and awards granted to employees under the schemes to vest on a at the annual general meeting are set out in the notice of annual change of control.
general meeting sent to all shareholders.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 65 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Conflicts of interest The Group Company Secretary A process has been established under the articles of association All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group whereby directors actual and potential conflicts are identified and Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board regularly reviewed.
The board can authorise potential conflicts of procedures and applicable rules are observed.
Directors may also interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it obtain independent professional advice in respect of their duties to thinks fit.
Such authority can be made only by independent directors the board and to its committees at the Companys expense.
those who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and making such a decision the directors must act in a way they consider, officers.
in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Any appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the Related party transactions appointment of a new director or at the time if any new conflict Details of related party transactions are set out in note 28 to the arises.
During the year, the board considered that this procedure financial statements.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year 2011 12 nil.
