Business review Corporate responsibility and relationships Making markets more resilient, safer and transparent Customers As an integral part of the wholesale financial ICAP has a wide and growing customer base.
No single customer markets, we believe that ICAPs success represents more than 5% of Group revenue.
ICAPs broking customers contributes to the economies in which we are primarily banks with the relative size of specic customers operate by helping companies and organisations varying considerably by product and geography.
Revenue from our customers is derived from a wide range of products in different asset manage and mitigate their business risks and classes across both execution and risk mitigation services.
government and companies raise capital.
A significant proportion of ICAPs revenue comes from non-bank ICAP fulls its corporate responsibilities in a number of different ways.
In the year ended 31 March 2013 execution revenue from For our shareholders we aim to produce superior returns over the non-bank customers was 21% of Group revenue and subscription long term.
For our customers we aim to provide products and revenue was 12% of Group revenue.
Non-bank execution revenue services which, in turn, will enable them to create value.
For our is largely generated from transaction activity on EBS and BrokerTec employees, we aim to provide an environment that is intellectually and from Global Brokings commodities and futures broking business.
The majority of commodities revenue comes from energy producers, Our principal contribution is to help ensure the efficient functioning users and trading rms.
Subscription revenue comes from data of the global markets.
Our broking and electronic platforms provide vendors and is mainly generated from our Electronic Markets and transparency, source liquidity and enable price discovery for our Post Trade Risk and Information businesses.
The move towards electronic trading in OTC markets, in which ICAP is a leader, together with our Post Trade Risk and Information business, helps make markets more resilient, safer and more transparent.
ICAP plc 34 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information As a service-orientated business, the major sources of greenhouse Health and safety gases arise from the running of our global network of offices and the ICAP has a health and safety policy which is approved by the board and travel commitments of our employees.
As in previous years we owned by the Group Finance Director.
Regional health and safety commissioned Carbon Neutral Limited, an environmental consultancy, committees oversee structures for policy compliance.
All employees have to estimate the residual emissions of the Group in terms of carbon a responsibility for ensuring a healthy and safe working environment.
Based on the analysis performed by Carbon great majority of ICAP employees work in an office environment and Neutral Limited, we estimate that the Group emits the equivalent of therefore there are no significant areas of risk to report.
31.5 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide or 6.3 tonnes per employee per annum 2011 12 restated 7.0 tonnes per employee.
The Suppliers reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions reects the use of more We rely on a number of key suppliers to help us carry out our efficient lighting and air conditioning in our offices, a focus on more business.
We have procedures in place to ensure purchasing decisions environmentally friendly buildings when moving offices, the recycling balance cost against other factors including service quality, global of waste and by the purchase, where possible, of electricity from reach and resilience.
Our travel commitments have remained relatively constant during the year and we continue to promote the use of Environment video conference facilities.
The Groups environmental policy is approved by the board and As in previous years, we will be mitigating our total carbon emissions owned by the Group Finance Director.
ICAPs operations cause minimal environmental impact.
Wherever possible, ICAP takes into by investment in carbon reducing projects.
account the direct and indirect environmental impact of its activities.
The key policy principles are: ensuring environmental risks are properly identied, prioritised and t managed in an appropriate and timely way: ensuring compliance with all relevant environmental legislation in t the countries in which we operate: continuing to reduce our carbon footprint with the objective of t becoming carbon neutral: and raising employees awareness of environmental issues and t encouraging environmentally responsible behaviour.
ICAPs voluntary carbon capture programme ICAPs voluntary carbon capture programme has funded the restoration and protection of 224 hectares of peatland in the Scottish highlands that had degraded due to generations of draining and use for livestock.
The work involved extensive scientific surveys and the blocking of more than 10 miles of man-made drainage ditches in order to restore the water table.
The peat now acts as a carbon sink and is expected to store, over the next 100 years, more than ICAPs 2011 and 2012 carbon emissions.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 35 Business review Corporate responsibility and relationships continued ICAP Charity Day has had an enormous ICAP Charity Day impact.
By donating all our revenue on one day each year, we have positively changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people around the world.
Thanks to the efforts of our customers, suppliers and employees, 1 00m an incredible 11 million US$17.7 million was raised on 5 December 2012 bringing donated since 1993 the total amount donated over 20 years to more than 100 million.
We are enormously proud to have donated more than 100 million since we started.
This momentous milestone would not have been possible without the incredible and ongoing support of our customers, suppliers and employees benefiting hundreds of charities around the world.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Samantha Cameron KIDS Ben Fogle Reese Witherspoon Tusk Trust Childrens Defense Fund ICAP plc 36 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Mo Farah Mo Farah Foundation Gillian Anderson Sohana Research Fund Twiggy Rambert Dance Company Kevin Spacey The Kevin Spacey Foundation Liv Tyler David Lynch Foundation ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 37 Business review Corporate responsibility and relationships continued Making a big impact Charity Day has made a significant difference by supporting more than 1,400 projects worldwide.
It has enabled us to fund projects such as an out-patient programme for ex-service men and women, a cancer care centre for young people and gene-modied cell therapy which is the next step in vital clinical trials for healing recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa.
Read about the projects ICAP Charity Day has supported in the Success Stories section of the website.
com success-stories Missing People Europe 250,000 people go missing every year in the UK alone, 140,000 of those are children.
Missing People provides free 24-hour condential support, help and advice by phone, email, text and online, including the opportunity to reconnect missing people with their families.
A donation from Charity Day has enabled the transformation of Missing People with the launch of 116 000, the new EU helpline for missing children.
We are immensely grateful to ICAP for funding the launch of 116 000.
ICAPs transformational donation has changed Missing People for ever, a better outcome has been integral to reaching a wider audience of vulnerable people.
We could not have hoped for better outcomes.
Jo Youle Chief Executive, Missing People BLUE Marine Foundation UK ICAP is now the lead sponsor for supporting a conservation and sustainability project never undertaken before in the UK.
Fishermen and conservationists have created a unique alliance to manage Lyme Bay, on the south coast of England, a project driven by the BLUE Marine Foundation.
This project demonstrates that livelihood development and conservation can work in harmony.
This will create a blueprint for managing Britains 127 proposed marine areas without destroying the economies of shing communities.
It was a huge honour to be selected as ICAPs first marine conservation charity beneciary.
The impact ICAPs support has had on our work is immeasurable.
ICAPs support has enabled a ground-breaking project on the Jurassic Coast of Dorset, which is now being used as a blueprint for nationwide marine conservation.
Without their support such rapid progress would not have been made.
Rachel Etherington Managing Director, BLUE Marine Foundation ICAP plc 38 Annual Report 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County New York The Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County promotes the development of young people by instilling in them a sense of confidence, responsibility and belonging.
The club offers positive experiences, and is a compelling alternative to youth crime, gang memberships and other negative inuences.
ICAP has supported the charity since 2008, and ICAP employees from the New York office volunteered to spend time with the young people at the Boys & Girls Clubs of Hudson County to gain a closer understanding of what the charity is about.
The volunteers played a selection of childhood games with the youngest members and then challenged the High School kids to a fast paced game of basketball.
Before you do something you have never done before, you have an idea in your mind about what to expect what I didnt expect was my emotional reaction to the overwhelming response of appreciation from those people we met that day and how ICAPs involvement with these charities has helped make lives better.
Felicia Nicholas ICAP North America.
Inspirasia Foundation Singapore The Inspirasia Foundation is a philanthropic portfolio investing in health and education projects which have a high potential for growth.
They help some of the most marginalised social groups in India, Indonesia and Thailand, including the disabled, poor young women and unschooled children with the aim to teach them skills that will enable them to go on to lead more independent lives.
The Inspirasia Foundation invests in small organisations that have strong leadership and a commitment to help the most disadvantaged in society.
With the help of ICAP funding Inspirasia will focus on areas such as health, education and poverty alleviation supporting groups that create opportunities through scholarships, rehabilitation and work placements in cities throughout India, Indonesia and Thailand.
W Wa Wat tc ch h the video Visit our Facebook page Rea R dt d th he tweets www.
com icapcharityday icapcharityday ICAP plc Annual Report 2013 39
