CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: NOmiNATiON COmmiTTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued ThE BOARd continued suCCEssiON PlANNiNG ANd APPOiNTmENTs BOARd EVAluATiON NOmiNATiON COmmiTTEE The responsibilities of the committee are to: TO ThE BOARd CONTiNuEd The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Jonathan Davie, Review the composition of the Board and Board The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility Reporting Councils guidance on board effectiveness Chairman committees to ensure that they are appropriately for the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive require the Board to evaluate performance annually, and of the Nomination balanced in terms of skills, knowledge and experience Directors, but the Board as a whole is also involved in recommend that the evaluation of the Board should be Committee, reviews the Ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent overseeing the development of management resources externally facilitated every three years.
committees activities procedure for the appointment of new Directors and across the Group.
during the financial year recommend appointments to the Board Last year, the Board commissioned an independent iNduCTiON ANd TRAiNiNG Ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession external Board effectiveness facilitator, Dr Tracy Long New Directors to the Board are provided with appropriate for appointments to the Board, and to other senior of Boardroom Review, to assist in an evaluation of training and briefings to familiarise them with their management positions its effectiveness.
duties and the business operations, risk and governance ChAiRmANs OVERViEw In response to the recommendations from the evaluation, ACTiViTy duRiNG ThE fiNANCiAl yEAR arrangements.
The induction programme includes The focus and attention of the committee in the year has the Board has implemented the following changes: The committee has continued to focus on reviewing the meetings with senior management.
Ongoing professional been the need to strengthen and implement effective structure, size and composition of the Board.
Following the development is important given the rapidly changing succession planning for the Board.
In addition, particular Review of management information received by decisions of Nat le Roux, David Currie and Andrew MacKay environment in which the Group operates.
During their attention was given to the diversity of skills, knowledge, the Board to step down from the Board, an external recruitment term of office all Directors receive regular briefings on gender and experience of the Board, especially following Increased focus on strategy, with an annual strategy day firm was engaged to assist the Committee with a search changes and developments in the business and on any publication of the Davies review on Women on Boards.
being put in place for a potential Non-Executive Director, and to identify relevant market, legislative and regulatory changes.
An increased number of, and more evenly spaced, candidates against the role specification and the skills, NOmiNATiON COmmiTTEE Board meetings throughout the year iNfORmATiON PROVidEd TO ThE BOARd knowledge and experience desirable for the role.
mEmBERshiP ANd ATTENdANCE An increased focus on the long-term composition of All Directors have access to the advice and services of Scheduled Scheduled Sam Tymms was identified as a strong candidate, being a the Board the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board meetings meetings seasoned regulator with experience in enforcement and Increased informal interaction between Board eligible to attend attended for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that supervision.
Sam spent 20 years with the UK Financial members and senior management outside of formal applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
All Group Chairman Services Authority and its predecessor agencies, where she Board meetings Directors receive appropriate and timely information to and Chairman of oversaw investment firms, retail banks, investment banks Nomination Committee enable the Board to exercise its judgement in the discharge Further to last years external evaluation, this year the and insurance groups.
Following detailed due diligence J R Davie 4 4 of its duties.
Briefing papers are distributed to all Directors Board carried out an internal Board evaluation using and an extensive interview process, the Committee Independent in advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic a questionnaire covering the Boards composition and Non-Executive Directors recommended Sams appointment.
This was approved by system, and financial information is distributed monthly.
processes and its activities and behaviours.
During this D Currie 2 2 the Board and Sam was formally appointed on 22 May 2013. process, the Board reviewed the recommendations arising D M Jackson 4 4 RE-ElECTiON Of diRECTORs out of last years external evaluation, in order to continue In addition, myself and Martin Jackson will be stepping R P Yates 4 4 The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that improving the overall effectiveness of the Board.
down from the Board at the AGM in October 2014.
The all Directors submit themselves for re-election at the The committee meets as necessary to consider committee is currently undertaking a thorough search Companys AGM, which this year will be held on In addition to the external Board evaluation, the appointments to the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer for Martins replacement.
In September, Roger Yates, the 17 October 2013.
Following a performance evaluation performance of the individual Executive Directors, other also attends, but is not involved in decisions relating to his Senior Independant Director, will commence a search for of each Director and the Board as a whole, all the than the Chief Executive, is appraised annually by the Chief own succession.
Directors, with the exception of S J Tymms, are submitting Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the themselves for re-election.
ROlE Of ThE NOmiNATiON COmmiTTEE Chief Executive is appraised annually by the Chairman.
The committee spent its time equally between succession The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code planning and Board composition during the year ended Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Provision B.
7.1, S J Tymms will be submitting herself 31 May 2013.
Non-Executive Director Roger Yates and taking into for election by shareholders at the first AGM after her Jonathan Davie account the feedback from the Executive Directors.
appointment, which will be held on 17 October 2013.
Nomination Committee Chairman, Nomination Committee Allocation of time Biographical details of each of the Directors are found 23 July 2013 Succession planning earlier in this section.
Board composition 58 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 59
