CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: AudiT COmmiTTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued diRECTORs REmuNERATiON REPORT continued The committee normally meets four times a year and as AudiT COmmiTTEE OThER REmuNERATiON disClOsuREs Group Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and when required.
Members of the committee also meet CONTiNuEd The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts Martin Jackson, privately in separate meetings with the Head of Internal with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment Chairman of the Audit, Head of Compliance and external auditors to focus Service contracts under which they receive fees reflecting their individual Audit Committee, on respective areas of responsibility and to discuss any Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a responsibilities and membership of Board committees.
gives his review of the potential issues where support from the committee may service contract with IG Group Limited a wholly-owned Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for an initial committees activities be required to address any issues arising.
intermediate holding company for the benefit of the term of twelve months, with appointment continuing during the financial year Company and the Group.
Either the Company or the indefinitely subject to re-election, but capable of being ROlE Of ThE AudiT COmmiTTEE Executive Director may terminate this contract on six terminated on three months notice.
The responsibilities of the committee are to: months notice.
All service contracts are continuous, and The Remuneration Committee determines the fees for contractual termination payments relate to the unexpired Monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the ChAiRmANs OVERViEw the Group Chairman and the Board is responsible for notice period.
In the event of termination for gross Group including Annual and Interim Reports, Interim During the year, the Audit Committee carried out the Non-Executive Directors fees.
The Non-Executive misconduct, neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice Management Statements, Trading Updates and any its responsibilities to review results and formal Directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions will be given.
When considering payments in the event other formal announcements relating to the Groups announcements of the Group and reviewed the by the Board about their own remuneration.
of termination, the Remuneration Committee takes into financial performance, reviewing significant issues and effectiveness of the external audit function.
Given the account individual circumstances.
Relevant factors include judgements included therein On behalf of the Board importance of managing the appropriate segregation of the reasons for termination, contractual obligations and Keep up-to-date with changes to accounting standards client monies, the committee applied additional focus cash, share and long-term incentive plan and pension plan and review any changes to accounting polices each year to this area, as well as giving further consideration to the rules.
There are no special provisions for compensation in Review and monitor the external auditors independence policy governing the provision of non-audit work by the the event of loss of office.
The effective dates of the service and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process Groups auditors.
contracts for each of the Executive Directors as at the date Consider and make recommendations to the Board of this report are: on appointing, re-appointing and removing the Christopher Hill The committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys external auditors, which are subject to Chief Financial Officer internal audit function and, for the forthcoming period T A Howkins 12 April 2005 shareholder approval authorised additional investment in internal audit resources.
23 July 2013 Review the design and effectiveness of the Groups C F Hill 18 January 2011 AudiT COmmiTTEE internal control and risk management systems mEmBERshiP ANd ATTENdANCE P G Hetherington 12 April 2005 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit Scheduled function, with focus on the three-year rolling risk-based meetings Scheduled audit plan eligible to meetings Review implementation of the FCAs Treating Customers attend attended Fairly TCF requirements Chairman of Audit Committee Review the compliance systems and controls to ensure D M Jackson 4 4 that adequate procedures are in place to comply with Independent Non-Executive Directors regulatory obligations D Currie 1 1 Ensure that there are suitable whistle-blowing S G Hill 3 3 arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in R P Yates 4 4 confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters All Audit Committee members are independent NonExecutive Directors and can draw on considerable, recent, The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each financial services experience.
committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of reference is covered at least once in the financial year, The Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, and more frequently if required.
Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Legal and Compliance, Head of UK Compliance, Company Secretary and the external auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation appropriate to the matters under consideration.
Other Directors, representatives from the finance function and other areas of the business may attend the Audit Committee as necessary.
76 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT: AudiT COmmiTTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued AudiT COmmiTTEE continued ACTiViTy duRiNG ThE fiNANCiAl yEAR another internal audit manager, and in external expertise, Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting has performed non-audit services in accordance with In addition to discharging its responsibilities as described enabling an increase in the number of audits performed policies and practices the non-audit policy.
The committee has reviewed the above, the committee focused on the following key areas: with support from external sector specialists.
The Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with independence of  LLP to ensure committee considers this additional investment will ensure financial reporting standards and relevant financial and that under no circumstances has work been performed Client money that internal audit resources remain sufficient to provide governance reporting requirements which affects its independence.
This was done through In recent years the failures of firms such as MF Global and appropriate coverage of the Groups risks, while retaining Considering the significant judgements that have carefully reviewing the nature of all non-audit work Worldspreads have further highlighted the importance of adequate flexibility to address new risks as they arise over been applied performed, reviewing the non-audit policy and ensuring appropriate segregation of client monies.
In response to the three-year plan period.
Reviewing trading updates and interim management appropriate safeguards were in place in relation to each its client money obligations, the Group has continued to statements prior to issuance non-audit engagement.
take proactive steps to ensure it segregates client monies Compliance Evaluating whether the annual report and accounts, appropriately in each of our jurisdictions.
The Group Detail of the Groups audit-related fees of 602,000, and The committee has continued to monitor the work of taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable also commissioned an independent controls opinion other fees payable to Auditors of 810,000 for the year the compliance department during the financial year.
and provide the information necessary for shareholders International Standard on Assurance Engagement ISAE ended 31 May 2013, are disclosed in note 6 to the Financial The focus has been on both conduct and prudential to assess the Companys performance, business model 3000 by its audit firm, in relation to both the design and Statements.
Audit-related fees include the statutory audit monitoring of all areas of the Group, as well as client and strategy the effective operation of controls over the segregation of the Group and its subsidiaries as well as audits required money and transaction reporting and the Groups of client monies.
This is reported in further detail in as a result of the regulated nature of our business.
Also development of consumer outcome initiatives.
The To aid this review, the committee has considered reports the following pages.
In addition, during the year the included are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls compliance department regularly reports to the committee from the Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial committee reviewed the work performed by internal audit opinion in relation to the segregation of client money.
in relation to regulatory developments.
It has also received reports from the external in support of the key processes and controls relating to Other fees payable to the Auditors are largely in relation Auditors on the outcomes of their half-year review and Financial crime segregation.
to taxation services of a compliance and filing nature, in annual audit.
The critical accounting estimates and Monitoring for, and preventing, financial crime remains a connection with corporation tax and other local taxes.
Tax judgements made in the preparation of the annual Non-audit fees key objective of the Group.
During the year, the Committee advisory services relate primarily to sales tax advice and Financial Statements are disclosed in note 1 to the To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the reviewed the annual Money Laundering Reporting Officer compliance, in terms of both the Groups products and Financial Statements.
external auditors from becoming compromised, the MRLO report, bi-annual fraud reports and suspicious our ability to recover some of the sales taxes suffered.
committee has a formal policy governing the engagement activity report data.
In addition, the committee reviewed The following chart highlights how the committee spent its Regulatory advice results from an in-depth review of of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This the Groups monitoring processes for financial crime and time during the year ended 31 May 2013: the regulatory returns for one of the Groups regulated year, the committee has again reviewed the Groups policy receives quarterly updates on the results of such monitoring.
subsidiaries, and support with regards to the developing Audit Committee governing non-audit work, details of which are provided on regulatory landscape.
Overall other fees to auditors Information technology controls Allocation of time the corporate website, www.
The policy was incurred have fallen by more than 26% compared to the The Groups operations are heavily dependent on developed with reference to the Smith report, the Auditing prior year.
Internal audit matters information technology IT, and accordingly the committee Practice Board APB Ethical Standard 5 Non-Audit Services Compliance has reviewed internal audit reports in relation to IT controls Provided to Audit Clients and the Institute of Chartered Internal audit Financial crime and assessments of external penetration tests performed.
Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW Guidance for During the financial year, the committee reviewed the Risks and controls All of these have been supported or performed by external Audit Committees.
reports and recommendations of the internal audit External audit matters specialists.
Additionally, during the year a new role of IT function.
The main focus of these was of a regulatory Other The policy makes an important distinction between auditRisk Director has been established within the Groups nature, including client money, as well as a number Statutory reporting related services and all other non-audit services, as a risk department.
The committee also number of audit-related services are specifically required monitored progress on the implementation of the audit Audit committee effectiveness of the Groups Auditors, through regulatory, legislative or recommendations raised by the internal audit function, The committee undertook a review of its own effectiveness contractual obligations, in addition to the statutory audit and the effectiveness of the coordination between internal during the year.
As a result it has, among other actions, services.
The policy also sets out the considerations and and external audit.
begun a schedule of training for all audit committee safeguards that are required in relation to the provision of members, covering certain of the Groups key functions.
non-audit services by the Auditors, and the specific services In addition, the committee reviewed the resources These include sales, trading services, risk, IT and the Auditors are precluded from providing.
Additionally, allocated to both internal audit and the three-year rolling Martin Jackson internal audit.
the policy sets out certain permitted services for which risk-based internal audit plan.
The latter consists of Chairman, Audit Committee the committee has pre-approved the engagement of the a variety of different types of internal audits, in order Financial reporting 23 July 2013 Auditors by management, subject to the considerations to provide adequate coverage across the Group.
The primary role of the committee in relation to financial and safeguards set out above, and subject to specified fee reporting is to work with management and the external In prior years, the Group has employed an entirely limits for individual engagements, as well as the reporting Auditors in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year in-house internal audit function.
In the current year, internal requirements for all non-audit services to the committee.
The committee has resources have been supplemented with sector specialism discharged its responsibilities in this area through The Group has established relationships with two from external advisory companies, for example in auditing concentrating on, among other matters: independent advisory and assurance firms in order to our information technology.
For the forthcoming period, provide alternatives to the engagement of the audit the committee has authorised additional investment firm.
During the year,  LLP both in internal audit resources, through the addition of 78 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 79
