BUSINESS REvIEW: Our strategy ouR STRATEGy continued mAINTAINING ouR mARkET lEADERSHIP SuPERIoR TEcHNoloGy ESTABlISHED GloBAl lEADER AwARD-wINNING BuSINESS comPETITIvE ADvANTAGE We understand that the performance and resilience We hold a market-leading position in many countries Feedback from satisfied clients about our service, our range The scale of our operations and the strength of our of our technology is essential to maintain high levels including the UK, Australia, Singapore and France.
Since of products and superior technology is the most important balance sheet enable us to invest continuously in of client satisfaction and retention and keep us at the 1974 weve helped people from over 130 countries deal measure of our success, but were proud to have been technological development and high-quality marketing.
Thats why were continuing on the financial markets.
In the last year alone, nearly recognised and endorsed with recent industry awards: This, in turn, helps us maintain and increase our lead, to innovate, invest in new technology, and improve our 140,000 clients traded with us.
driving sustainable competitive advantage and stronger 2012 MoneyAM Awards UK trading platforms.
1 global provider of CFDs and financial Best online CFD Provider Recent developments include our Chrome browser spread betting.
Independent research by Investment cAPITAlISING oN ouR STRENGTHS 2012 UK Forex Awards extension, enabling clients to open deals from almost Trends has confirmed our market share of primary accounts Our strengths lie in our size and stability, our heritage Best Forex Trading Tools any page on the web, and our platform preview which for CFDs at 32% in the UK, 37% in Australia, and 22% in and our reputation.
Here are some of the ways we allows prospective clients to experience our technology France.
We hold a 44% market share of primary accounts 2012 Shares Magazine Awards UK continue to build on these strengths to drive revenue: before opening an account.
for spread betting in the UK.
Best Spread Betting Service and Best Online SEcuRITy AND INTEGRITy Trading Platform mARkETING EXPERTISE We maintain our position by focussing on quality service Our clients look to us to provide a secure and By targeting the right people at the right time and and continued development of our product offering.
2012 Investors Chronicle Financial Times trusted way to trade, and we respond by taking through the right channels, we aim to increase the Globally, 81% of new clients who have traded with us said Investment Awards UK an industry-leading stance towards segregating average revenue per client and quality of our new theyre likely to continue doing business with us.
Best Spread Betting Service and Best Online client money.
Our in-house marketing team creates highTrading Platform profile campaigns and tailored messages to address In the UK we are regulated by the Financial Conduct individuals already familiar with derivative trading TheBull Stockies Awards Australia Authority FCA.
We offer full segregation of all individual products, as well as materials that support and educate 2013 Best Forex Provider client funds, even in those territories where regulations those who are new to CFDs and spread betting.
2012 Best CFD Provider awarded for the fourth dont require this level of protection our clients can rest consecutive year assured we only ever use our own funds for hedging.
Weve recently rebranded and merged our spread betting and CFD websites into one easy, memorable TAlENTED PEoPlE domain IG.
This helps us to improve the efficiency Listed as one of Britains Top Employers for six of our international online marketing and maximise our consecutive years, we are able to attract and recruit resources, as well as supporting our stronger, unified high-calibre staff who bring specialist skills, knowledge global brand.
and expertise to our business.
uk mARkET SHARE PERcENTAGE NumBER oF AcTIvE clIENTS kEy PERFoRmANcE INDIcAToRS kPIs We use independent research to evaluate our market We continuously monitor the number of active clients and We analyse a suite of metrics to ensure we are achieving our objectives.
revenue per client, as our Group revenue is a product of GRouP REvENuE 2009-2013 these factors.
