50 Corporate governance The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Board of Directors The Chairman of the Board, Justin Dowley, leads the Board in As at 31 March 2013, the Board comprised three Managing the determination of its strategy and in achieving its objectives.
Directors, an independent Non Executive Chairman and four The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of independent Non Executive Directors.
Following a rigorous review the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
in accordance with the Code, the Board considers all five of its The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business Non Executive Directors to be independent in character and of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution judgement and that they each provide effective challenge both of Non Executive Directors and ensures that there is effective within and outside Board meetings.
The Non Executive Directors communication with the Groups shareholders.
are as follows: The Chairman was considered independent at the date of Justin Dowley was appointed as a Non Executive Director in his appointment as Chairman and continues to be so.
February 2006 and as Non Executive Chairman in July 2010.
The Chief Executive Officer, Christophe Evain, has direct Kevin Parry was appointed as a Non Executive Director in charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable June 2009. to the Board for the financial and operational performance of Peter Gibbs was appointed as a Non Executive Director the Group.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by the in March 2010.
Executive Committee, which supports him in carrying out the Kim Wahl was appointed as a Non Executive Director responsibilities delegated to him by the Board.
The Executive Committee comprises the Managing Directors and meets on a regular basis to consider operational matters and Lindsey McMurray was appointed as a Non Executive Director the implementation of the Groups strategy.
No one Managing in September 2012.
Director is able to significantly affect the running of the Company The Non Executive Directors are considered to be of the without consulting his colleagues.
appropriate calibre and experience to bring significant influence In accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted a formal to bear on the Boards decision making process.
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, The Chairman has acted as a Non Executive Director of with the intention to establish a clear division of responsibilities Melrose Industries PLC during the year.
We do not consider this between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility appointment to have any adverse impact on his ability to perform for the running of the Companys business.
his role effectively as Chairman of the Board.
The Board meets at least six times a year, with additional Senior Independent Director meetings being held as required.
The following table shows the number of Board and Kevin Parry holds the position of Senior Independent Director Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance of the Company.
In accordance with the Code, any shareholder record of individual Directors.
Jean-Daniel Camus and James concerns not resolved through the usual mechanisms for Nelson left the Board during the year, while Benot Durteste, Kim investor communication can be conveyed to the Senior Wahl and Lindsey McMurray have attended meetings since their Independent Director.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 51 Board and Committee meetings The Board also employs the services of an external independent third party for these purposes.
The most recent independent Audit Board evaluation undertaken in April 2013 considered the and Risk Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee effectiveness and performance of the Board in relation to: Number of Board composition, expertise and dynamics: time management 9 4 5 1 meetings held and Board support: strategic oversight: risk management and Justin Dowley 9 4 5 1 internal control: and succession planning and human resource management.
The independent Board evaluation concluded Christophe Evain 9 4 5 1 that the Board was effective in all areas.
Philip Keller 9 4 5 1 Benot Durteste 7 3 4 0 Election and re-election of Directors Peter Gibbs 8 3 5 1 Kevin Parry 7 4 4 0 The Companys current Articles of Association provide that Kim Wahl 6 3 3 0 a Director appointed by the Board shall retire at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment and that at each Lindsey McMurray 5 3 3 0 Annual General Meeting of the Company one third of the Directors Jean-Daniel Camus 2 0 1 1 must retire by rotation.
The Board has decided that in accordance James Nelson 2 1 2 1 with the Code, each of the Directors will retire and offer theirself Attended these meetings at the invitation of the relevant Chairman but was not for re-election at each years Annual General Meeting.
a member of the relevant Committee.
In relation to the Directors who are standing for re-election, The principal matters considered by the Board during the year the Chairman is satisfied that, following formal performance included: evaluation, each Director continues to be effective and the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: demonstrates commitment to their role.
review of the compliance policies: regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas Conflicts of interest of concern: Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with communication of our financial results for the interim and the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the year end: Directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has review of current compensation structures: adopted a policy and effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving potential conflicts of interest.
independence of Non Executive Directors: succession planning for roles within the Group, both at Board level and in respect of other senior managers: and corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
Board performance In line with the effective governance requirements of the Code, the Board reviews its own performance annually.
The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a whole, the functioning of the Executive Committee, the evaluation of individual Directors and includes a review of the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
The Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, and taking into accounts the views of Executive Directors, are responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when making its recommendations regarding the re-election of Directors.
52 Corporate governance continued Board Committees and those which require specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimis levels.
The Audit The Board is supported in its decisions by five principal Committee also undertakes an annual evaluation to assess Committees, which are described below.
The Terms of Reference the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and of each of the Board Committees, together with the Directors the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration service agreements, the terms and conditions of appointment of relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The results Non Executive Directors and Directors deeds of indemnity, are of the evaluation were last reported to the Board in available for inspection at the Companys registered office during September 2012: normal business hours.
Each Committee has access to such reviewing the annual and interim accounts before they are external advice as it may consider appropriate.
The Company presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues Secretary acts as Secretary of the Nominations Committee: the arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of Groups Head of Human Resources acts as Secretary to the disclosures: compliance with applicable accounting and Remuneration Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of legal standards: and issues regarding a significant element that Committee: and the Groups Financial Controller acts as of judgement: Secretary to the Audit Committee at the invitation of the Chairman reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio of that Committee.
on a six monthly basis: and The Risk Committee has been recently constituted in order to allow greater oversight of the internal controls of risks by the monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company.
This role was carried out in previous years by the Audit Company, including its annual and half yearly reports, interim and Risk Committee now known as the Audit Committee, but management statements and any other formal announcement the functions and focuses of these committees have been split relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant as from March 2013 to allow enhanced oversight and control.
financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain.
The Terms of Reference of each committee are considered During the year the Audit Committee fulfilled the duties of an regularly by the respective committee before being referred to Audit and Risk Committee.
Set out below are the main matters the Board for approval.
discussed during the course of the year.
Some of these discussions will, in future, be held in the Risk Committee.
Audit Committee Financial reporting The Audit Committee consists of four independent Non Executive Reviewed and discussed with the executive management Directors, these being Kevin Parry Chairman of the Committee, and the external auditors the interim statement and annual Peter Gibbs, Lindsey McMurray and Kim Wahl.
The Managing report and accounts, with a particular focus on accounting Directors and Chairman of the Board are not members of the policies, disclosures and consistency with the non financial Audit Committee but are normally invited to attend.
Deloitte LLP, reports included in those reports the Companys auditor, is also invited to attend and has direct access to Committee members.
The Board is satisfied that the Received presentations from leading analysts as to the Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant financial effectiveness of communication of the report and accounts, experience, as do other members of the Committee.
The and ensured that opportunities for improvement were reflected Committee meets regularly, at least four times a year, and is in this report and accounts responsible for: Reviewed the methodology for assessing provisions against selecting and recommending the appointment and investments and concurred with a sample of the provisions re-appointment of the external auditor to the Board, approving that had been determined by the Investment Committees their terms of reference and fees: Reviewed the level of pre and post tax provisions against reviewing the performance of the external auditor and ensuring investments and other past events, assessing their adequacy appropriate rotation of audit partner: in the light of the disclosed risks and uncertainties reviewing the independence of the external auditor and the relationship between audit and non audit work performed by the external auditor.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all significant non audit work performed by the auditor in excess of 50k is approved in advance by the Committee and they assess whether such appointments impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
The procedures set out the categories of non audit services which the external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those which are pre-approved by the Committee Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 53 Auditing Reviewed the need for an internal audit function and given the internal control processes and procedures that are currently Evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external in place, and the relative size and geographical spread of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The auditor business, it remains appropriate and proportionate for the provided non-audit services in the form of tax advisory and Company not to have an internal audit function.
other assurance services not related to the audit of the financial statements.
The external auditor was used to provide these Reviewed the resource commitment and output of the services since they are widely recognised as a market leader in compliance and risk functions these areas, have a reputation for quality, and have a local Reviewed the Treasury Committee activity and policy limits presence in the countries in which the services were performed.
Reviewed regulatory developments and the changes in Audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded in these applicable regulation associated with the expansion of activities.
instances through the advice being provided by partners and staff who have no involvement in the audit of the financial The Committee statements plus an independent audit partner reviewing any Reviewed the quality of the Audit Committees work audit work in these areas.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
An analysis of fees paid to Reviewed whether the Committee should be split so that risk Deloitte LLP is shown in note 9 on page 99. comprised a separate Committee Reviewed and discussed the scope of the external audit plan Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee taking account of professional obligations, guidance and Group Reviewed the Committees rolling agenda specific issues The reviews were generally based on a written paper allowing Reviewed the level of auditing materiality with the auditors the Committee members to challenge and debate the reports.
Discussed the recommendations for control enhancements All reviews were completed to the Committees satisfaction.
made by the external auditors and received implementation In light of the quality of audit work and service received from plans from executive management Deloitte, the Committee decided that an audit tender is not currently appropriate and that the matter of whether to hold an Discussed the audit findings with the auditors and executive audit tender should be reconsidered in line with the timing of the management in the context of the audit materiality that had rotation of the audit partner.
been agreed at the planning stage of the audit The Committee has asked management to diligently monitor Met with the auditors in the absence of executive management the level of compliance resource in the light of the expansion of to ensure they had received all the information they required the business and for a similar reason anticipates out-sourcing and to permit them to draw any matters to the attention of the internal audit work in 2013 14.
Audit Committee that they had not addressed in the presence The Committee recommended the formation of a separate of management Risk Committee.
Assessed the quality of the external auditors Considered the potential timing of any audit tender Risk Committee The Risk Committee, created in March 2013, consists of five Risk Non Executive Directors, these being Kevin Parry Chairman Regularly reviewed the risks faced by the Group and changes of the Committee, Peter Gibbs, Justin Dowley, Kim Wahl and to those risks and the relative importance of the risks.
Managing Directors are not members of the In particular, the Committee discussed the risks associated Risk Committee but are normally invited to attend to the extent with the instabilities in the Eurozone and the impact on ICGs appropriate.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the extensive exposure to the Euro effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk Reviewed the anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and management systems, and considering annually whether there corruption and whistleblowing procedures of the Group is a need to establish an internal audit function: reviewing and Reviewed the risk management of and operational control approving the statements to be included in the annual report over the funds under management concerning internal controls and risk management: reviewing internal reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment financial control, financial reporting and risk management: and of the Group reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and for Reviewed the anti-conflict of interest procedures as between handling, in confidence, allegations from whistleblowers and FMC and IC ensuring these procedures allow proportionate and independent Liaised with the Remuneration Committee particularly in respect investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action.
of provisioning and the transitional arrangements associated with the remuneration schemes 54 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Executive Committee: The Remuneration Committee consists of five Non Executive the development and recommendation of strategic plans Directors, these being Peter Gibbs Chairman of the Committee, for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term: Kevin Parry, Justin Dowley, Kim Wahl and Lindsey McMurray.
objectives and priorities established by the Board: Managing Directors are not members of the Remuneration implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group Committee but are normally invited to attend to the extent as determined by the Board: appropriate.
The Committee supports the Board in determining the level of remuneration of the Chairman of the Board in his monitoring of operating and financial results against plans absence and reviews the remuneration policy applicable to senior and budgets: management.
Further details regarding remuneration policy and monitoring the quality of the investment process: and payments made can be found in the Report of the Remuneration developing and implementing risk management systems.
Relationships with shareholders Nominations Committee The Company recognises the importance of communication with The Nominations Committee consists of five Non Executive its shareholders, particularly through interim and annual reports Directors, these being Justin Dowley Chairman of the Committee, and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Kevin Parry, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl and Lindsey McMurray.
Chairmen of the Board and each of its Committees will be available The Committee is responsible for considering the composition to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
The numbers of of the Board to ensure that the balance of its membership proxy votes lodged in connection with the Companys AGM are between Managing Directors and Non Executive Directors is announced following the conclusion of the relevant meeting.
Appointments of Managing Directors and Non The Board is happy to enter into a dialogue with institutional Executive Directors are made as necessary as a result of shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, discussions by the Committee and are subject to full Board subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders approval and election or re-election at a general meeting of the and the dissemination of inside information.
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer meet institutional Prior to any appointment to the Board, the Nominations shareholders on a regular basis, and the Chairman periodically Committee considers the balance of skills, experience, contacts the Companys major shareholders and offers to meet independence and knowledge appropriate to determine the with them.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the requirements and necessary capabilities of the role.
In addition, views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested any new Director normally meets all existing Directors prior to do so, Non Executive Directors will attend meetings with to appointment.
The Committee does not have a formal policy on background or diversity of Board members.
In considering candidates for the Internal control Board, it will always seek to appoint the candidate with the most appropriate skills and experience regardless of their background The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys internal or gender.
control system and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system of control is in place to give reasonable, but not absolute, Executive Committee assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are The Executive Committee consists of the three Managing prevented or detected within a timely period.
Directors of ICG, each of whom has a specific area of responsibility.
Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of The Executive Committee has general responsibility for ICGs matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees, resources, determining strategy, financial and operational control the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over and managing the business worldwide.
Christophe Evain is Chief appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
Executive Officer and in addition to his strategic and operational The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly remit he chairs the Companys Investment Committees in his role defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
as the Chief Investment Officer.
He is also responsible for the The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan and Companys credit funds business.
Philip Keller is Chief Financial budget.
In addition there are established procedures and processes Officer and is responsible for finance and infrastructure.
Benot in place for the making and monitoring of investments and the Durteste, appointed to the Board on 21 May 2012, took over planning and controlling of expenditure.
The Board also receives responsibility for the mezzanine and minority equity business regular reports from the Executive Committee on the Companys from that date.
operational and financial performance, measured against the annual budget as well as regulatory and compliance matters.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 38 45 46 76 Annual Report 2013 77 112 55 The Company has in place arrangements whereby employees regular treasury reports are made to the Board which analyse may raise matters of concern in confidence about possible the funding requirements of the Company, track liquidity and improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
monitor the Companys compliance with its interest and The Board has considered the need for an internal audit exchange rate policies: function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current a compliance and legal function whose role is to monitor and internal control system and size of the Company it cannot be report to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance: justified at present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
a well defined procedure governing the approval, monitoring In addition to the regular risk reports discussed at the Risk and sale of investments incorporating appropriate levels of Committees meetings, the Board undertakes a formal periodic authority and post investment reviews: and assessment of the risk management and control arrangements in regular reports are made on the Companys fund management order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of activities including new fundraising, conflicts of interest and internal control.
The Board has authorised the Executive Committee portfolio performance.
to undertake external reviews of the emerging risks, where required, with a view to assisting the growth of the Companys business.
Going concern statement The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business The Directors have at the time of approving the financial and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to management is responsible for implementing such strategies adopt the going concern basis of preparing the financial accounts.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, wide range of information relating to present and future conditions evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital throughout the year and that, up to the date of the approval of the resources.
Directors report and financial statements, the Board continues to The Groups business activities, together with the factors apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements likely to affect its future development, performance and position of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance are set out in the Operating Review on pages 21 to 25.
The for Directors on the Combined Code.
financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position The key elements of this process are: and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 26 to 30.
In addition, note 3 to the financial statements core values, Company standards and controls which together include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for comprise the Companys high level principles and controls, managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: with which all staff are expected to comply: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
to all business units: The Directors believe that the Group and Company are well the identification of the major business risks facing the placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the Company and the development of appropriate policies for current uncertain economic outlook.
the management of those risks.
The Board recognises that The Directors continually monitor the debt profile of the the internal control system is designed to manage rather than Group and Company, and seek to refinance senior facilities eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: a substantial period before they mature.
The Group and Company have 462.5m of facilities due to mature within the employment of experienced and professional staff of the the next 12 months.
Facilities have already been established highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil allotted responsibilities: to cover these maturities as well as cater for the ongoing funding requirements of the business.
strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by the Board: a detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the Groups finance function:
