Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Other governance and statutory disclosures Interests in voting rights BUSINESS REVIEW Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on Directors Report a fair review of the business of the Group during the a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at financial year ended 30 June 2013 including an analysis of the position of 30 June 2013, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders Amount Percent of Identity of person or group owned class to assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 i of the Companies Act 2006.
21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited 623,817,229 39.14 ii BlackRock, Inc. 88,682,765 5.06 The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 63,236,287 3.967 found in the following sections of the Directors Report.
i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Voting Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 4 to 6 rights below.
Our performance KPIs on pages 8 to 9 Review of our business on pages 10 to 23 There have been no changes to the above significant holdings Financial and operating review on pages 28 to 33 between 1 July and 25 July 2013.
Principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group are described At 25 July 2013, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by 21st on pages 24 to 27 Significant trends that could have a material effect on the Century Fox UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under the performance of the Group are described on page 32 laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. As a result of Rupert People matters and community and environmental matters are Murdochs ability to appoint certain members of the Board of described on pages 17 to 23.
Directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which Pages 4 to 59 inclusive together with the sections incorporated by beneficially owns less than 1% of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. s Class reference consist of a Directors Report that has been drawn up and A Common Stock and 38.4% of its Class B Common Stock, Rupert presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares.
Rupert Murdoch reports beneficially ownership of less than 1% of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. s Class A Common Stock and an Principal activities additional 1.0% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate less than 1% of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc is the holding company of the Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. s Class A Common Stock and 39.74% of British Sky Broadcasting group of companies.
The Groups principal its Class B Common Stock, although, as stated above, Rupert Murdoch activities are detailed in the Review of our business on pages 10 to 23. disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares of Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Results and dividends The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP was established to The profit for the year ended 30 June 2013 was 979 million 2012: satisfy awards made to participants of the Companys employee 906 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to ended 30 June 2013 of 19.0 pence per ordinary share which, together dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the with the interim dividend of 11.0 pence paid to shareholders on extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 June 23 April 2013, will make a total dividend for the year of 30.0 pence 2013, the ESOP had an interest in 20,527,423 of the Companys 2012: 25.40 pence.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend ordinary shares.
The Trustees, who are independent of the Company, will be paid on 6 December 2013 to shareholders appearing on the have full discretion on how they vote the ordinary shares held by register at the close of business on 15 November 2013. the ESOP.
Share capital Voting rights The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2013 The Companys Articles of Association provide that subject to any comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further details of every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, and the Companys share capital is disclosed in notes 23 and 24 to the on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he consolidated financial statements.
On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 57 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Other governance and statutory disclosures continued A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, the Company was granted appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
If a the authority to return a further 500 million of capital to member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the number shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
This authority was of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy subject to an agreement between Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Companys others dated 28 July 2012 on substantially the same terms as the ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the On 25 July 2013, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals to Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional buy-back programme.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at the on 4 November 2005 and caps 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Companys AGM on 22 November 2013.
The Company has entered into Limiteds voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions an agreement with Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and others under of the voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a substantially the same terms as the 2011 Share Buy-back Agreement.
number of circumstances which include the date on which a general The agreement is conditional on the appropriate shareholder offer is made by an independent person as defined in the voting approvals being granted.
The effect of the agreement is to provide agreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
that there will be no change in Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. s economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share Restrictions on transfer of securities buy-back programme.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Articles of association Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Board of Directors Variation of rights The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of are given on pages 34 and 35. shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general Company are disclosed within the report on Directors remuneration meeting of the shareholders.
Directors powers in relation to the Company issuing and buying Appointment and retirement of Directors back its own shares The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
The Directors were granted authority at the 2012 AGM to allot relevant Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall securities up to a nominal amount of 273,000,000.
This authority will then be eligible for reappointment by the Companys shareholders.
At apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
An ordinary resolution to the Companys 2013 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive provide the Directors with an authority to allot relevant securities up Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment in to a nominal amount of 262,000,000 will be proposed at the 2013 compliance with the Code.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors powers to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with Alternate Directors rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 39,000,000.
A Director may appoint any other Director or any other person to act On 29 November 2011, at the Companys AGM, the Company was as his Alternate.
An Alternate Director shall be entitled to receive granted the authority to return 750 million of capital to shareholders notice of and attend meetings of the Directors and committees of via a share buy-back programme.
This authority was subject to an Directors of which his appointer is a member and not able to attend.
agreement between the Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.
The Alternate Director shall be entitled to vote at such meetings and and others dated 28 July 2011 whereby following any market generally perform all the functions of his appointer as a Director in his purchases of shares by the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. absence.
would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its On the resignation of the appointer for any reason the Alternate percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those Director shall cease to be an Alternate Director.
The appointer may market purchases.
The price payable to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. also remove his Alternate Director by notice to the Company Secretary would be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant signed by the appointer revoking the appointment.
An Alternate market purchases the 2011 Share Buy-back Agreement.
Director shall not be entitled to fees for his service as an Alternate Director.
Chase Carey, David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and James Murdoch have appointed each of the others to act as their Alternate Director.
58 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Significant agreements Going concern Details of any significant agreements that take effect, alter or The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to terminate on a change of control of the Company are disclosed in the affect its future development, performance and position are set out review of the business on pages 15 to 17. in the review of our business on pages 10 to 23.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the financial and operating review on pages 28 to 33.
In addition, notes 20 Payment policy to 22 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with suppliers Groups treasury activities, long term funding arrangements, financial prior to entering into a contractual relationship.
In the absence of a instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
specific agreement, it is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers in As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, accordance with its standard payment terms of 45 days.
The Group had below 45 days purchases outstanding at 30 June 2013 2012: together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including below 45 days, based on the total amount invoiced by nonits contractual and commercial commitments as set out on pages 99 programme trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June 2013. to 100, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, Programme creditors include significant balances which are not yet contractually due.
In respect of amounts both contractually due and and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current economic outlook.
invoiced, the outstanding number of days purchases is below 45 days 2012: below 45 days.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that Financial instruments there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going information on our financial risk management objectives and policies, concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
and our exposure to financial risks can be found in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors responsibilities Charitable contributions through our community and The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 60. environmental activities Disclosure of information to auditors During the financial year, we contributed 5,788,768 to charities for the purpose of supporting our initiatives that focus on being a In accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act responsible business and on improving lives through sport: 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the championing creativity and opening up the arts: helping young people date of approval of this report confirms that: build skills for a changing world: and taking action to protect the environment.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys These contributions were made to our key charity partners including auditor is unaware: and the National Film and Television School, the Media Trust, Youth Sport the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Trust, British Cycling, WWF, Global Action Plan, Ideas Tap, Tate Liverpool as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit and the Victoria and Albert Museum.
We also supported a number of information as defined and to establish that the Companys charities through our employee matched fundraising and payroll auditor is aware of that information.
giving activities and our volunteering initiatives.
An overview of our approach to building a sustainable business, which Auditors we call seeing the bigger picture, is provided on pages 17 to 21 of the Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their Directors report Business review.
In addition we have published our willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as the Seeing the bigger picture Summary Report 2013 which outlines our Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their vision, initiatives and performance over the year.
In this we quantify remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
our total investment for community benefit using the London Benchmarking Group model.
In-depth information can also be found Annual General Meeting at sky.
The notice convening the AGM, to be held at the Edinburgh Political contributions International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Edinburgh EH3 8EE on 22 November 2013 at 11.00am, is available for download from the Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2013 amounted Companys corporate website at sky.
By order of the Board, Chris Taylor Company Secretary 25 July 2013 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 59
