Audit and Risk Committee Report During the year the Board approved new terms of reference for Key Areas Reviewed During 2013 inclusion of risk within the Audit and Risk Committees previously The Committee undertook the following activities in discharging the Audit Committee remit, which had previously been its responsibilities during 2013: performed by the Board as a whole.
For the majority of the financial year the committee purely focused on audit matters as is Adoption of Investment Entity Reporting reflected in this report.
The Audit and Risk Committee the The Company has chosen to adopt amendments to IFRS10, IFRS12 Committee is an essential part of the Companys governance and IAS 27 available to qualifying investment entities a year ahead framework to which the Board has delegated oversight of the of the mandatory deadline.
Under the new guidance the Companys financial reporting, internal controls and compliance Company therefore no longer consolidates its underlying and external audit.
This report provides an overview of the work investment entities but instead it carries them at fair value.
of the Committee and details how it has discharged its duties during the year.
The Company continues to consolidate service entities within the group.
The implications of early application and the impact on the The terms of reference for the Committee, together with details groups financial statements were discussed with the Investment of the standard business considered by the Committee, have been Advisor regularly during the year and with the auditors as part of approved by the Board and are available on the Companys the audit planning process.
The Investment Advisor prepared a detailed report to the Company outlining the impact of the changes from adopting the Committee Meetings new guidance on the financial statements.
Meetings of the Committee were attended by the Investment Advisor and Administrator by invitation during the year.
A The Committee reviewed the Investment Advisors report and representative of the Groups external auditors, Ernst and Young considered the reporting changes and their implications.
The LLP, also attended by invitation those meetings at which the Committee recommended to the Board that the new guidance be financial reporting planning and the annual and interim reports adopted ahead of the mandatory deadline as it offered greater and financial statements were considered.
All of the Committees members are considered to be Significant issues considered in relation to the appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, having significant, financial statements recent and relevant financial experience in line with the AIC Code.
Biographies of the Committee members can be found on pages Fair Value of Investments 53-54.
Prior to the Boards review of the interim and year-end financial statements the Audit and Risk Committee considered the key Committee Agenda accounting judgements made in preparing the financial The Committees agenda during the year included performing: statements.
The most significant judgement related to the fair value of the Companys investments.
Review of the final and interim financial statements and matters raised by management and external auditors As outlined in note 13 of the financial statements, the fair value of including significant financial reporting judgements therein investments at 31 December 2013 was 844.4 million.
Market Review of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting quotations are not available for these financial assets.
Instead policies their valuation is undertaken using a discounted cash flow Review of the effectiveness of the groups internal control methodology.
This requires a series of judgements to be made as systems explained in note 13 to the financial statements.
Review of the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the terms of engagement, cost The valuation process and methodology were discussed with the effectiveness and the scope of the audit Investment Advisor regularly during the year and with the auditor Approving the external auditors plan for the current year end as part of the year-end audit planning and interim review Review of the policy on the provision of non-audit services by processes.
The Committee also challenged the Investment Advisor the external auditor on the year-end fair value of investments as part of its Consideration and challenge of the draft valuation of the consideration of the final statutory financial statements.
Groups investments prepared by the Investment Advisor and recommendations made to the Board on the appropriateness of the valuation Review of the groups policy for preventing fraud and bribery INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 50 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued During the period, the Board reviewed the Investment Advisors and which are not prohibited by the policy must be pre-approved quarterly valuation report.
The Investment Advisor determined by the Chairman of the Committee previously the Board, any that the valuation methodology had been applied consistently services above this require pre-approval by the full Committee with the prior year with the exception of a change in the previously by the Board.
methodology for the valuing senior debt investments so as to be Non-audit fees represented 16% of total audit fees, reflecting the consistent with the basis of preparation of the financial relatively low level of non-audit work conducted.
statements following adoption of investment entity reporting.
The Committee, having considered the negligible impact on fair In order to maintain Ernst and Youngs EY independence and value of investments from the change in approach to senior debt, objectivity, EY undertook its standard independence procedures in recommended its appropriateness to the Board.
relation to those engagements and confirmed compliance with these to the Committee.
Further details on the amounts of nonThe auditor explained the results of their review of the valuations, audit work paid to EY are set out in note 8 to the financial including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow statements.
These were reported to and considered by the projections and assumptions: macro-economic assumptions: and Committee as not being so significant so as to risk impacting discount rate methodology and output.
On the basis of their audit objectivity and independence.
work the auditor confirmed no material adjustments were proposed.
Audit Tendering and tenure In October 2010, the Company put the audits of the Company and Internal controls over financial reporting controlled investment entities out to tender.
In addition to The Committee satisfied itself that the system of internal control complying with good practice and satisfying new corporate and compliance over financial reporting was effective, through governance requirements, the tender enabled the Board to regular reports from the Investment Advisor and Administrator.
benchmark competitiveness and value for money.
The current and previous Audit Committee Chairman had direct access and independent discussions with the external auditor A number of firms were approached to tender for the audit.
The during the course of the year.
list was based upon their experience, industry skills and knowledge, their ability to perform the audit to a high standard Controls and process reviews and any pre-existing business relationships that might affect their Throughout 2013 the Companys governance and assurance independence.
Following a review of the proposals received, a functions have continued to be enhanced, including the Company recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Ernst and engaging an independent third party to perform reviews over Young LLP as the new auditors previously Deloitte LLP.
selected controls and processes, the focus of which is agreed on an annual basis.
As part of the 2013 review, the Committee The current auditors have therefore only been engaged for two procured a review of anti-bribery and corruption processes and previous year-end audits.
In accordance with the relevant controls.
The review confirmed adequate procedures were in Corporate Governance Code principles the Committee will place and offered a recommendation for further enhancements.
continue to review the effectiveness of the external auditor and seek to retender in line with best practice.
External Auditors The Committee recommended to the Board the scope and terms Review of auditor effectiveness of engagement of the third party audit firm.
The Committee For the year ended 31 December 2013 the Committee reviewed considered auditor effectiveness, audit tenure and audit the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
was facilitated through the completion of a questionnaire by the relevant stakeholders including members of the Committee and Objectivity and independence key financial management of the Investment Advisor : interviews In assessing the objectivity of the auditors the Committee with finance staff: and a review of the audit plan and process for considered the terms under which the external auditors may be the year.
appointed to perform non-audit services.
Work expected to be completed by external auditors includes formal reporting for Following this review the Committee recommended to the Board shareholders, regulatory assurance reports and work in that Ernst and Young LLP be re-appointed as external auditors for connection with new investments.
Under the policy there is a specific list of services for which the external auditors cannot be engaged as the Committee considers that the provision of such services would impact their independence.
Any potential services to be provided by the external auditors that have an expected value of up to 50,000 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 51 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Committee has considered the Annual Report and Financial Statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Company introduced a new process for the review of the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements in order to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
This process included thorough review of the revised regulatory requirements, a process to determine the accuracy, consistency and clarity of the financial results and language, and a detailed review by all appropriate parties including external advisors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements and has advised the Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, operating model and strategy.
John Whittle 26 March 2014 Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 52
