Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT We have well-developed governance systems in place in all of our markets to manage the various risks we face.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Dear Shareholder, Part of my role as Chairman is to create a Board that can provide the leadership to drive forward our strategy and The Boards commitment to good governance is the oversight required to deal with the new and emerging undiminished.
We have systems in place which we believe challenges we face.
As a result, in 2013 we announced that enable us to manage our businesses in an open, transparent David Broadbent would take on the newly created role of and ethical manner, and for the long-term bene t of all our Chief Commercial Of cer, which includes the responsibility stakeholders.
for our transformation programme, and announced the appointment of Adrian Gardner as Chief Financial Of cer.
The environment in which we operate, however, is subject to Adrian joined the Board on 2 January 2014 and brings with change and we must respond to this when it comes to our him a wealth of experience as CFO across multiple sectors.
In the past year we have seen our On 12 February 2014 we also announced the appointment business sector become subject to heightened regulatory of Cathryn Riley as a non-executive director.
Cathryn brings debate, particularly in Europe.
There have also been extensive experience in major IT transformation programmes increased levels of scrutiny in the area of consumer and implementing new distribution channels.
We have well-developed governance systems in place in all of our markets to manage the various risks we In addition, we took signi cant steps in 2013 to ensure that face, including regulation.
we have the right people with the appropriate levels of expertise and oversight at senior management level We continue to develop our governance procedures to throughout the Group.
This is not a static initiative.
As part of ensure that they remain t for purpose.
During 2013 we our commitment to succession planning we fully embedded carried out a review of our overall operational governance our People and Organisational Planning process into the and oversight framework to make sure that it was properly business in 2013.
This is designed to identify and develop the aligned to the needs of our business.
The recommendations next level of senior leaders across the Group.
from this review were considered by the Audit and Risk Committee and will be fully implemented in 2014.
As part of The quality of our people, combined with the enhanced this we have brought together the oversight of our safety, governance procedures we are implementing, gives me business continuity, fraud and information security into one the assurance that the business can move forward with body responsible for managing loss prevention.
In addition, con dence in 2014. we have re-fide ned the group responsible for business transformation to ensure we have clear oversight of our change programme across the entire Group.
This is particularly important as we move forward with our Transformation for Growth programme, an initiative designed to create a step change in the way we operate in an increasingly competitive landscape.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 44 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Our governance and oversight structure Board Audit and Risk Disclosure Executive Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsible for setting and communicating the strategy and ensuring the financial plan supports this strategy.
Responsible for ensuring the governance, risk and Risk Advisory control framework is adequate to respond Group appropriately to key internal and external risk factors.
Country Finance Reputation and Group Loss Business Management Group Credit Leadership Regulation Prevention Transformation Team and Committee Team Committee Committee Group Performance Calls Financial Transformation Risk Control and Credit Regulation Strategy Management Reporting Implementation CEO CFO CEO CFO CCO Treasury and Loss Information Operational Reputation Funding Prevention Technology CFO CEO CEO CCO CCO Group Governance Committee Key Risk Area Executive Risk Owner 45 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
