Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance C Cor orpor pora at te e g go ov five er rn na anc nce e r re epor port t continued CHAIRmANS OVERVIEW COmPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provides the years Corporate Governance Report.
I would like to take this standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct opportunity to provide you with some direct insight into the Boards Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have views on Corporate Governance, our focus during the year, the changes complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial to our Board composition through the year and the Boards first year.
The Code as revised in September 2012 will apply to the Company external Board evaluation.
during the next financial year.
For this financial year, the Company has continued to apply the 2010 version of the Code.
As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of The Board considers that the Company has fully complied with the our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective Corporate of the year ended 30 June 2013.
This section of the Annual Report Governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency, and can along with the Remuneration Committees report on Directors only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust and remuneration on pages 48 to 56 and other governance and statutory effective debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky, and it is my disclosures on pages 57 to 59 provide details of how the Company has personal responsibility as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live applied the main principles.
Further information on the Code is this culture and promote it within our business.
available on the Financial Reporting Councils website frc.
Firstly, I would like to address our Board composition.
There have been LEADERSHIP a number of changes in Board and Committee membership during the year.
I am pleased to welcome Dave Lewis, Chase Carey, Andy Sukawaty Role of the Board and its Members and Adine Grate to the Board.
Jacques Nasser and Lord Wilson of The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction Dinton both retired from the Board during the year.
Chase Carey, who previously served as a Non-Executive Director from February 2003 to and performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be February 2009, replaced Thomas Mockridge following his resignation appropriately assessed and managed.
The Board sets the strategic in January 2013.
In order to clarify the roles of Board members, within direction, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place for the our Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 and 38, we have included a detailed description of the Directors roles and Company to meet its objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
The Board takes a long term outlook and sees itself as responsible to a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a It has been the Boards strategy to attract directors who complement manner consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the and expand upon the skill set of the Board.
We seek to appoint Companys members as a whole.
directors who provide diversity in background, experience and views.
We recognise that gender diversity can bring a greater range of The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill viewpoints to boardroom debate and improve board dynamics.
and ability in their particular field of endeavour, and a diversity of outlook and experience which directly benefits the operation of the In line with corporate governance best practice, during the year an Board as the custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Board external Board evaluation was undertaken by Alice Perkins of JCA Group.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the Board member is provided on pages 34 to 35. and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains The Board agenda a strong commitment to their role.
The resulting development themes The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been so that arose from the evaluation are discussed on page 41. since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994.
The roles During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater and and expectations of each Director are clearly defined and recorded within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
The roles and more effective engagement with our shareholders.
Andy Higginson, our Executive Directors, and I have met with institutional investors responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
Along with Danny Rimer, Chairman of the Remuneration To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day to day affairs Committee, we will continue to engage with shareholders over the of the Company, the following matters are subject to the course of the coming financial year.
determination and or approval of the Board, and are contained within Nick Ferguson the Companys Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board: Chairman approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of the Group: approval of the interim and final results: approval of any dividend policy: changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including reductions of capital and share buy-backs: the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements which, 36 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance whether budgeted or unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of 200 million in aggregate value: The Chairman the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement or The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its any series of related commitments or arrangements with a related effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This party as defined by the Listing Rules which involves, or could includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the Directors reasonably involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The duties of the equal to or in excess of 25 million in aggregate value: Chairman include the following: approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting: to provide a sounding board to the CEO: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, to encourage and ensure effective communication with following, if applicable, recommendations from any committee to shareholders, and ensure shareholder views are communicated to which the Board delegates consideration of such issues: the Board as a whole: appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of all CEO: and Directors, and of Non-Executive Directors in particular: determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
to create an environment which engenders constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: The full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by the to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried out Board can be found on the Companys corporate website at sky.
com effectively and efficiently: corporate.
In the event that a matter is required to be resolved by a to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys strategy vote of the Board, the matter shall be decided by a majority of votes in and in the achievement of its objectives: accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Chairman to ensure Board committees are properly established, composed does not have a casting vote.
and operated: and to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
Board Focus During the year and in addition to its reserved and standing matters, The Chief Executive Officer the Board also considered and received a number of updates and The CEO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, presentations relating among others, to: advancing long-term shareholder value, supported by the The Companys finance and operations management team.
He is accountable and responsible to the Board Governance and formal business for the management and operation of the Company.
He is also The general market and economic outlook involved in the management of the social and environmental The competitive landscape responsibilities of the Company.
The duties of the CEO include the Products and services following: Content investments to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the management and operation of the Group: Strategy Away Days to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the In February 2013, members of the Board attended an offsite day attainment of approved objectives and to recommend such plans dedicated to the Companys strategic priorities.
This format gives and programmes to the Board as appropriate: Directors a further opportunity to explore, analyse and challenge to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining high management on its strategic approach.
At this years away day, the business standards generally: Board were engaged in and received presentation and updates to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient operation relating to: of all business units: to establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and The Companys five year financial plans potential shareholders, and major external bodies: New product developments to keep the Board informed on all matters of material importance: Growth of existing business activities and Opportunities and market trends to chair meetings of the Executive Committee.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director SID The role of the SID is to provide both support and a counterbalance to the position of Chairman and encompasses the following: to provide a sounding board to the Chairman: to serve as an alternative source of advice to the Chairman for the other Non-Executive Directors: together with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors, to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and agree development points required: British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 37 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Corporate governance report continued along with the Chairman, to liaise with institutional shareholders Environment supportive of challenge and representative bodies during the year: and The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent to assist shareholders in resolving concerns should alternative checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified channels be inappropriate.
and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all Independent Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and Non-Executive Directors contribute to decisions relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact on stakeholders.
The Independent Collectively, and specifically within the remit of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged on the quality and for the following aspects of governance of the Board: content of their contributions to Board debate and are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions and decisions to scrutinise the performance of management in reaching agreed as appropriate.
objectives and monitor reporting: to satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information: Board delegation to ensure financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board to determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Board members: committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance and & Nominations and the Bigger Picture committees.
Each committees to determine the composition of the Board in respect of succession terms of reference can be found on the Companys corporate website.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference of each of the committees satisfy the requirements of the Code.
Company Secretary The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Board The Company Secretary is responsible for the following in respect of Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the chairman of each committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work effective Board operation: currently being carried out by the committee they chair.
to ensure good information flows within the Board and its A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis committees, between senior management and Non-Executive to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It is chaired by Directors: the CEO and comprises the CFO and other senior executives from to facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional development: and within the Group.
to advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate governance obligations and developments in best practice.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During the year, Chris Taylor was appointed Company Secretary in place of David Gormley who moved to another role within Sky.
Board and Committee framework Board Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Corporate Governance & Bigger Picture Nominations Committee Committee 38 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Meetings of the Board during the year The Board met five times during the year.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director and Committee member were eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 5 6 3 4 2 Director Jeremy Darroch, CEO 5 5 Andrew Griffith 5 5 i Chase Carey 2 2 iv v Tracy Clarke 5 5 3 3 2 2 vii David DeVoe 4 5 ii v Nick Ferguson 5 5 3 3 4 4 iii v Martin Gilbert 5 5 6 6 2 3 ii iii viii Andy Higginson 4 5 5 6 3 4 i ii iii iv Dave Lewis 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 iv James Murdoch 5 5 2 2 iii ix Matthieu Pigasse 3 5 3 6 ii v Danny Rimer 5 5 3 3 3 4 ii Arthur Siskind 5 5 4 4 i v Andy Sukawaty 1 1 vi x Thomas Mockridge 2 3 vi Jacques Nasser 2 2 1 1 ii iv vi Lord Wilson of Dinton 4 4 3 3 2 2 Notes i Dave Lewis was appointed to the Board on 16 November 2012, Chase Carey was appointed to the Board on 30 January 2013 and Andy Sukawaty was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013. ii Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee member.
Lord Wilson of Dinton retired as a member on 1 June 2013 and Dave Lewis became a member on 11 June 2013. iii Audit Committee member.
Andy Higginson stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 November 2012.
Dave Lewis became a member on 30 January 2013. iv Bigger Picture Committee member.
Dave Lewis was appointed as a member on 30 January 2013 and Lord Wilson of Dinton resigned as a member on 1 June 2013. v Remuneration Committee member.
Jacques Nasser retired as a member on 1 November 2012 and Andy Sukawaty became a member on 11 June 2013. vi Jacques Nasser retired from the Board on 1 November 2012, Thomas Mockridge resigned from the Board on 30 January 2013 and Lord Wilson of Dinton retired from the Board on 1 June 2013. vii David DeVoe was unable to attend a Board meeting due to a conflicting News Corporation subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. meeting.
viii Andy Higginson was unable to attend a Board meeting due to family commitments.
ix Matthieu Pigasse was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings due to overseas travel on Lazard business and personal reasons.
x Thomas Mockridge could not attend a Board meeting as he resigned from the Board that day.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 39 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee.
Following the AGM, Martin Gilbert was appointed as EFFECTIVENESS Chairman of the Audit Committee in place of Andy Higginson who Board composition and independence remains a member.
On 16 November 2012, Dave Lewis was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
On 30 January 2013, Dave The Board currently comprises 15 Directors, made up of two Executive Lewis was appointed as a member of the Audit Committee and the Directors and 13 Non-Executive Directors.
At least half of the Board of Bigger Picture Committee and on 11 June 2013 he was appointed as a Directors are determined to be independent by the Board in member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Biographies of each of the Directors are set out on pages 34 to 35 and identify those Directors On 30 January 2013, Thomas Mockridge resigned and Chase Carey was who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the meaning of appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
On 1 June 2013, Lord Wilson of the Code.
On appointment the Chairman met the independence Dinton retired from the Board and as a member of the Corporate criteria set out in provision B.
Governance & Nominations Committee and the Bigger Picture Committee.
On 1 June 2013, Andy Sukawaty was appointed as an The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of Independent NonExecutive Director.
On 11 June 2013, Andy Sukawaty experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and carry significant was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
On weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive 17 July 2013, Adine Grate was appointed as an Independent NonDirectors are encouraged to challenge management and help develop Executive Director.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.
Time commitment Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that FTSE 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external nonmay affect independence according to best practice statements executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in respect contained within the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist of such appointments.
Any external appointments for the Executive the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent in Directors are considered by the Corporate Governance & Nominations character and judgement, and whether there are relationships or Committee.
All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the commitments required on induction, and are expected to devote Directors judgement.
sufficient time for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support Appointments to the Board and succession planning and facilities for consideration of the Companys strategy and The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the performance, and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of encouraged so that any issues regarding conflicting commitments service of individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession and time pressures can be addressed appropriately.
planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure for the appointment of Directors.
In brief, the Induction & training Committee identifies the set of skills and experience required and, All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual with the assistance of external search agencies, selects individuals to requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the take Board positions on review of their individual merits.
The process Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates adopted by the Committee around Director recruitment is discussed their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business in the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committees report on performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations pages 45 and 46. from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Sky Media, Sky Sports and Strategic Planning Group.
The Chairman meets Board diversity with the Directors throughout the year to review and agree their The Board has noted the findings of the Davies Review and has individual training and developmental needs.
published a statement of its intention to increase female In consultation with the Chairman and CEO, the Company Secretary representation on the Board.
This statement can be found on the organises and facilitates directors induction.
For example, Dave Lewis Companys corporate website.
The Corporate Governance & was appointed to the Board on 16 November 2012 and has undergone Nominations Committee is responsible for succession planning and the initial stages of induction, which have included meetings with key further information of the work of the Committee during the year can executives, a meeting with the Bigger Picture team, and a tour of the be found on pages 45 and 46.
During the remainder of 2013, he will attend an outside broadcast and visit a customer call centre.
Directors reappointment In respect of Code provision B.
7.1, all Executive and Non-Executive Information provided to the Directors Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information 2013 AGM of the Company in compliance with the Code.
flows within the Board and its committees, between senior management and Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and Board and committee changes during the year Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, Jacques Nasser retired at least one week prior to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and from the Board and also as a member of the Remuneration security of Board papers, the Company has adopted an electronic 40 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance system whereby Directors board packs are accessible and available Peer reviews irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly receive Board relations with key stakeholders additional information from the Company between Board meetings Risk, compliance and financial monitoring including a daily press summary and a monthly Group performance Overall Board effectiveness and succession planning update.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were The findings were presented to the Corporate Governance & provided with all the papers and information relating to that meeting Nominations Committee and the Board for discussion in October and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman 2012.
The feedback confirmed that the Board and each of its and CEO.
Committees continue to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and demonstrates a Conflicts of interest strong commitment to the role.
Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before The Board discussed the key findings and agreed the following action taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may points: possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to The Board induction process would be reviewed and strengthened: authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a The composition of the Board and its Committees would be kept Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
All existing under review: external appointments for each Director have been authorised by the Board information flows would be reviewed to ensure that all Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
Directors are kept up to date with developments in between Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so meetings: that they can be considered, and if appropriate, authorised by the The Board and Committee meeting schedule would be reviewed.
In addition, the Corporate Governance & Nominations The performance of each director was evaluated as part of the Committee conducts an annual review of Directors conflicts and evaluation process, based on self-analysis and input from the other reports its findings to the Board.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review its The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the performance and that of its Committees and individual directors on Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that an annual basis.
In respect of the evaluation process for the 2013 14 conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process for financial year, it is likely that a mixture of external facilitation and authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance & internal facilitation will be used.
Nominations Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
ACCOUNTABILITY Throughout this report and, as required, through other periodic Directors & Officers Insurance and Indemnity financial statements, the Board is committed to providing The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the corporate reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers with its auditor.
A full description of the Audit Committees terms of liability insurance policy which meets defence costs when the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
reference is included in the Audit Committee Report on pages 42 to 45.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association allow the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity have been issued Significant risks to the business are kept under constant review and to all Directors of the Company.
appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 24 to 27.
Board Evaluation In line with corporate governance best practice, an external Board REmUNERATION evaluation was undertaken during the year.
The process was The Board believes in adopting remuneration packages that are facilitated by Alice Perkins who works for the coaching division of JCA appropriate for attracting, retaining and motivating Directors.
The Group, which is separate to the recruitment division engaged by the Remuneration Committees report on Directors remuneration on Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee during the year to pages 48 to 56 explains how remuneration packages and assist in the recruitment of non-executive directors.
JCA Group have performance incentives are employed by the Company at Board level.
no other relationships with the Company.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Following discussions with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Remuneration policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is CEO and the Company Secretary, JCA Group prepared discussion involved in decisions affecting their own remuneration.
guidelines which formed the basis for one to one interviews with all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered by the discussion guidelines included: Organisation of the Board and its composition Committee organisation and composition Strategy British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 41 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Corporate governance report continued RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AUDIT COmmITTEE Shareholder communications Chairman Martin Gilbert Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are Members Martin Gilbert, Andy Higginson, Dave Lewis and available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Matthieu Pigasse Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder Chairmans overview communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be During the year, the Committee continued to focus on the financial used as the primary means of communication with shareholders performance of the Company, internal audit, risk management, where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The compliance and financial governance.
In accordance with the Code, the shareholder information section on pages 116 to 117 contains further membership of the Committee consists exclusively of Independent details on electronic shareholder communications together with more Non-Executive Directors.
general information of interest to shareholders which is also included This year the Committee has received a number of presentations from on the Companys corporate website.
the management of different business areas, including technology, entertainment and legal and regulatory to improve its understanding Shareholder engagement of their operations and the risks they face and how those risks are The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue managed.
with shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the The Committee has also reviewed the Groups integration of the O2 Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, received meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts presentations from the Chairman of the Data Governance Committee, takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to the Director of People in relation to Health & Safety and received analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year regular reports from the Companys internal audit function and results announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and external auditor.
investors following the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results, and presentations are made during the year to many During the year, Andy Higginson stepped down as Chairman of the existing or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
Committee and I would like to thank him for his stewardship of the Committee during his Chairmanship.
Andy remains a Committee The Annual General Meeting member.
Dave Lewis joined the Committee in January 2013 bringing strong operational experience which will add to the quality and The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with effectiveness of discussions at Committee meetings.
private investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders to ask questions.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary Martin Gilbert of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
Committee Chairman All resolutions at the 2012 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes Attendance at Committee Meetings rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As The Committee, has clearly defined terms of reference as laid down recommended by the Code, all resolutions were voted separately and by the Board which are available on the Companys website.
The the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against and those Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and the other members are withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were Andy Higginson, Dave Lewis and Matthieu Pigasse.
The CFO and indicated at the meeting and the final results were released to the representatives from the external auditor and the internal audit London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The announcement was also made available on the Companys corporate CEO and other business and finance executives attend meetings from website.
As in previous years, the proxy form and the announcement time to time.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the Board of the voting results made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote on its activities.
in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend meetings of the Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
42 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Changes to the membership of the Committee during the year The Committee reviewed the significant areas of judgement in line with the Groups critical accounting policies as set out on pages 72 Andy Higginson stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on and 73 with particular focus on the following: 1 November 2012 and was replaced by Martin Gilbert and remains a member of the Committee.
Dave Lewis was appointed as a member of Retail subscription revenue: the majority of the Groups revenues the Committee on 30 January 2013. derive from retail subscriptions.
The Group applies judgement in determining the allocation of consideration from customers to different elements of the contract.
The Committee keeps the The role of the Committee policies under review and confirms with management that this The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main policy has been applied consistently.
duties include: General entertainment programming inventory: the Committee reviews the policy for the recognition of content costs and seeks making recommendations to the Board in relation to the assurances that it has been applied appropriately.
The amortisation appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor method for general entertainment programming inventory requires and discussing with the external auditor the nature, scope and fees more judgement and the committee received a presentation from for the external auditors work: management on the policy and reviewed the different genres of reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the programmes by comparison with viewing profiles and industry approval, or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and annual benchmarks.
financial statements of the Group: Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets: the reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: Committee obtains assurances from management that the Groups reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: project controls are operating and that the requirements of IAS 16 reviewing the Groups treasury policies: and IAS 38 regarding the capitalisation of expenditure have been recommending the appointment of the Groups Director: Audit, Risk followed.
Management and Compliance: reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal audit Activities during the year function: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Committee met six times during the financial year.
Meeting audit function: agendas were organised around the Companys financial reporting approving all non-audit services provided by the Groups external cycle and items covered were as follows: auditor in accordance with the Groups policy: monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: Financial management and reporting reviewing and monitoring compliance with the Companys business standards and codes relating to anti-bribery and corruption, received regular updates from the CFO on the financial performance competition law, data protection, health and safety and other and financial management of the Group: compliance programmes: reviewed the Companys Annual Report, half-yearly results and reviewing a schedule of all transactions between the Company and interim management statements: related parties entered into during the year and which exceed reviewed the Groups accounting policies: and 100,000 in value and payments pursuant thereto: received quarterly reports from the treasury function on the approval is required for the entering into by the Group of a funding, liquidity, going concern and operational capabilities of the commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments Group and compliance with treasury policies.
or arrangements with a related party which involves or could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts Internal control equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over aggregate value.
Any transaction in excess of 25 million in financial reporting: aggregate value must be submitted to the Committee and, if reviewed the internal audit departments resources and annual approved by the Committee, must also be submitted to the full audit plan: Board for approval: reviewed quarterly reports from internal audit on the results of its to approve subject, where applicable, to Board approval all audit work and managements implementation of its transactions which fall within the Listing Rule definition of related recommendations: party transactions and to recommend such transactions as it received quarterly updates from internal audit on the status of approves to the Board.
Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure SAO The Committee members have considerable financial and business compliance: and experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole evaluated the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions.
In addition, the Board has determined that each member of External Audit Matters the Committee has sufficient accounting or related financial received regular reports from the external auditor: management expertise as required by the UK Listing Authoritys reviewed and approved the 2012 13 audit work plan: Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
received regular updates on the use of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and ensured that all services and fees were approved in accordance with the Groups policy: British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 43 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Corporate governance report continued reviewed the effectiveness, quality of work and independence of are well established controls over the financial reporting process.
the external auditor: These are also documented in line with the requirements of the SAO approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement legislation and the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm letter of the external auditor: and their continuous operation by the control owners twice a year and are private meetings with the external auditor for additional discussion independently tested by the internal audit team.
The results of the SAO testing are reported to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
Risk management There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group reviewed the Groups Risk Register: and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The registers received risk presentations from various business areas: detail the controls that manage the risks and, where necessary, the approved the Groups Risk Management Policy and Standards: and action plans to mitigate the risk exposure.
The business develops the received an insurance renewal update.
action plans and the internal audit team monitors their implementation.
The Committee formally reviews the Group Risk Other Register twice a year and there is a rolling programme where senior executives from the business present their risk management plans.
reviewed quarterly security updates which include whistle-blowing: The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the received a report on cyber security: Business Review on pages 24 to 27. reviewed quarterly related party transactions reports: and reviewed the Groups implementation of adequate procedures in The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the relation to the Bribery Act 2010. effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management to the Groups operating management and to the The Committee also received updates from the Director of Tax and Committee.
Treasury, the Chairman of the Data Governance Committee and the Director of People on health and safety.
Disclosure controls and procedures The external auditors attended six meetings of the Committee during The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems the year.
The Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance has that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed direct access to the Committee Chairman and the external audit as part of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and partner.
communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Internal control and risk management The Company has established a Disclosure Committee.
The committee The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members consist of maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk senior managers from the finance and legal departments.
It has management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are responsibility for considering the materiality of information including designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of failure inside information and, on a timely basis, determination of the to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not disclosure and treatment of such information.
The Disclosure absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the process for the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the formal review of the contents of the Companys Annual Report.
significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council Changes in internal controls in October 2005.
During the period under review no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2013 that has materially The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the year and this review has been carried out for internal control over financial reporting.
the year ended 30 June 2013 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the Company and Auditor independence its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
The Committee For the year ended 30 June 2013, the Committee has reviewed audit meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups Director: Audit, independence and scope of non-audit services and independence Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditors.
safeguards with Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditor.
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte LLPs professional judgement, by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through Deloitte LLP is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
review monthly reports on performance were provided to the Board and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity and independence of Deloitte LLP was not in any way impaired by In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group finance team is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there either the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during 44 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance the year, the level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or Group processes personal data in accordance with Data Protection circumstances.
Audit and non-audit services provided during the year laws, and that individuals are able to exercise their rights under such were approved by the Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration laws.
A set of policies are in place which outline and promote is disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
consistent standards and practices in the collection and use of personal data across the Group.
The policies also set out the Audit and non-audit services responsibilities of employees in managing personal data and the escalation process to be followed, should employees become aware of The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of any breach of policy.
These policies are subject to regular review by audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services the DG Committee.
between: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: NOmINATIONS COmmITTEE those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: Chairman Andy Higginson and those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is Members Nick Ferguson, Andy Higginson, Dave Lewis, Danny Rimer required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
and Arthur Siskind The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal Chairmans overview approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the external We have had another active year continuing our orderly programme of replacing Independent Non-Executive Directors as they retire.
We auditor is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
have secured the appointment of two new independent nonDuring the year, the following examples were deemed to be preexecutive directors.
Dave Lewis and Andy Sukawaty succeed Jacques approved in accordance with the policy.
Nasser and Lord Wilson of Dinton on their retirement from the Board.
A third candidate, Adine Grate was appointed to the Board on 17 July Comfort procedures in relation to 2012 bond issue 2013. iXBRL tagging of statutory accounts Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review.
Succession planning is a key part of our annual programme and for each position we have reviewed the existing skill-set on the Board, Audit partner rotation specifically in terms of background, knowledge, experience and the diversity of the Board.
We have balanced this with the Companys The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner strategic direction and objectives to ensure that each appointment responsible for the engagement every five years.
The current lead strengthens the Board so that it can help and challenge management partner started his term of office in relation to the 2010 11 financial to grow and take the business forward.
We have used external consultants to help us with the recruitment Tenure of external auditor process and members of the Committee and the Chief Executive Officer have met with a number of candidates throughout the year The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor who met the Committees criteria.
This years Board evaluation incumbents since 2002 is kept under review.
The Committee has process was undertaken by an external Company for the first time.
approved the external auditors remuneration and terms of Alice Perkins of JCA Group facilitated the evaluation process which engagement and is fully satisfied with the performance, objectivity, involved her meeting all Board members and the Company Secretary quality of challenge and independence of the external auditor.
Having through a series of one to one interviews.
The results of the performed a review of effectiveness, the Committee has evaluation were very encouraging.
The evaluation found that the recommended that a resolution to reappoint the external auditor as Board and its Committees are operating effectively and that the the Companys statutory auditors be proposed at the Companys Directors are making an effective contribution.
A number of action forthcoming AGM.
In addition to the annual review of effectiveness points were agreed which are generally aimed at building on and undertaken when considering the recommendation to shareholders improving existing processes.
regarding the annual re-appointment of the external auditor, the 2012 version of the Code now requires the Company to undertake a The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to competitive tender for the role of external auditor on a comply or innovations and change within the field, and is actively progressing explain basis every ten years.
The present audit partners permitted initiatives such as addressing gender balance on the Board, sourcing fifth and final year is the year ending 30 June 2015 and it is the the right skills to complement our talented management team, and Committees current intention to conduct a competitive tender to creating robust succession plans to safeguard the Companys future select auditors for either that year or the year ending 30 June 2016. performance.
The Committee continues to comprise a majority of Non-Executive Data Governance Directors in compliance with the Code.
The Data Governance Committee the DG Committee reports to the Andy Higginson Committee.
The role of the DG Committee is to ensure that Committee Chairman appropriate procedures and controls are in place to ensure that the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 45 Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance Corporate governance report continued Changes to the membership of the Committee during the year The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that there be no changes to Lord Wilson of Dinton retired as a member of the Committee on 1 June the independent status of the current Independent Non-Executive 2013.
Dave Lewis was appointed as a member of the Committee on Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the 11 June 2013.
Board to be independent are clearly identified on pages 34 to 35.
The Boards criteria for determining whether a Non-Executive Director is The role of the Committee independent are set out in the Memorandum on Corporate Governance which can be found on the Companys corporate website.
The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main duties include: The Committees review took into consideration the fact that, by the date of the Companys 2013 AGM, Andy Higginson will have served on the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, of the Board for more than nine years.
1.1 of the Code states candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise: that serving more than nine years could be relevant to the the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the determination of a Non-Executive Directors independence.
The Board, taking into consideration the present balance of skills, Committee concluded that Andy Higginson continued to demonstrate knowledge and experience on the Board: the essential characteristics of independence expected by the Board the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the and that there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to Board and the recommendation of any changes to the Board or affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
Andy Higginson has succession planning: agreed to serve as a member of the Board until the 2014 AGM, in order the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly to maintain a degree of certainty and smooth handover of Board and what is expected of new appointees to the Board, in terms of time Committee experience and knowledge and help to facilitate the commitment, term of office and committee service as well as their integration of the recently appointed Independent Non-Executive duties and liabilities as a Director, including details of the Companys Directors to the Board.
corporate governance policies and Directors and Officers liability insurance cover: and The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the financial the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable year and concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately Corporate Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating effectively.
The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and Activities during the year review potential conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate them as necessary.
During the year the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and followed a formal recruitment process to identify candidates who meet the Boards criteria.
During the year, Committee members and the CEO met with a number of potential candidates.
The Committee used JCA Group, an external recruitment consultancy to help the Committee identify possible candidates and run the recruitment process.
The coaching arm of JCA Group, which is a separate business to the recruitment arm, performed the external Board evaluation during the year.
JCA Group has no other connection with the Company.
JCA Group were replaced by Ridgeway Partners as the Companys external recruitment advisors in October 2012.
The recruitment process involved the Chairman of the Committee working closely with the external recruitment consultants to ensure that they understood the Companys requirements.
The external recruitment company approached potential candidates and a short list of candidates was drawn up and reviewed by the Committee.
An interview process was then undertaken which involved members of the Committee and the CEO meeting the candidates.
The Committee recommended two candidates to the Board during the year, Dave Lewis and Andy Sukawaty.
A third candidate, Adine Grate was recommended to the Board during the year and appointed on 17 July 2013.
Each of these candidates has a background, experience and skill set which will help strengthen the Board and improve its diversity.
The Board and the Committee have noted the findings of the Davies Review and it is the Committees intention to increase female representation on the Board as the Company continues to follow its orderly programme for replacing members of the Board as they retire.
46 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Business review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Governance Annual Report 2013: Directors report Governance set to 2020 that will ensure the business has fewer impacts and BIGGER PICTURE COmmITTEE better, more sustainable products year on year.
Chairman James Murdoch They oversaw the expansion of Sky Sports Living for Sport into a third of all secondary schools in the UK, together with the launch into Members Tracy Clarke, Dave Lewis and James Murdoch Ireland.
For the latter, a target of also reaching one third of all secondary schools by 2016 has been set.
During the year, the Committee has continued to provide strategic The Committee reviewed the progress of the second phase of Sky leadership in relation to Skys Bigger Picture programme.
Rainforest Rescue, continuing to drive on the ground implementation It has been a good year, with strong progress made in each of our in the project area in Brazil, while also increasing the activity to raise chosen areas of focus sport, arts, environment and skills.
This awareness, in the UK, of rainforest deforestation in the Amazon.
progress is detailed on pages 17 to 21 and at sky.
com biggerpicture Having agreed the Sky Arts Ignition strategy last year, this year they The Committee is pleased with the focus and scale of the work being oversaw the launch of projects in partnership with Tate Liverpool and done, and believes that it is making a significant contribution to the the V&A, along with support and mentoring of five emerging young sustainability of the business and its reputation.
I would like to welcome Dave Lewis to the Committee and thank Lord Two years ago, the Committee challenged the management team to Wilson, who stepped down from the Committee during the year, for further strengthen the Bigger Picture initiatives and extend their his valuable contribution as a member of the Committee.
At their final meeting of the year, they noted the significant served on the Committee since its inception and has made an progress made to increase the positive social and environmental important contribution to the growth and success of the Bigger impact of Sky on the UK and Ireland.
Picture programme during that time.
James Murdoch Committee Chairman Changes to the membership of the Committee during the year Dave Lewis was appointed as a member of the Bigger Picture Committee on 30 January 2013 and Lord Wilson of Dinton retired as a member of the Bigger Picture Committee on 1 June 2013.
The role of the Committee The Chairman of the Bigger Picture Committee reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The main duties of the Bigger Picture Committee include: reviewing and approving the Bigger Picture strategy: seeking external stakeholders views on the Bigger Picture strategy and performance: reviewing and approving the annual reporting of the Bigger Picture activities: monitoring progress in achieving the Bigger Picture objectives and key performance indicators: ensuring the resources and skills are available to implement the Bigger Picture strategy: and providing the Board with an overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities and how they are being managed.
Activities during the year Over the year, the Committee reviewed the positive progress made in raising consumer awareness and favourability through the Bigger Picture initiatives.
The independent quarterly mass consumer survey shows that 64% of customers and 43% of consumers are now aware of the Bigger Picture initiatives.
The Committee also oversaw a number of key developments in relation to Skys Bigger Picture initiatives.
They reviewed the new environment targets and accompanying commitments that Sky has British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 47
