Corporate Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee considered Board-level succession planning during the year and the leadership required to support the Companys Strategy for Growth.
Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Committee members Work in 2013 Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Meetings Tony Hales The Committee met five times during the year.
Edyta Kurek Election and re-election of directors John Lorimer until 25 April 2013 Directors are appointed to the Board following a robust Nicholas Page selection process and on the Committees recommendation.
Gerard Ryan The performance of each Director is assessed on an annual Overview basis as part of the Board evaluation process.
In addition, a review of the independence of each non-executive director Role is undertaken and consideration given to the attendance of The Committees responsibilities include: each director at Board and Committee meetings.
Based on assisting the Board in selecting and appointing any new these reviews the Board recommends the re-election of all director and recommending their appointment to the directors who are standing for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
Board: Board composition reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board: In January, the Committee reviewed the size, structure and and composition of the Board and concluded that further gender diversity and the addition of complementary skills succession planning.
Composition Board appointments The Committee must have at least three members, the The Committee oversaw the recruitment of a new Chief majority being independent non-executive directors.
Financial Of cer and retained search consultants Hitchenor Members can also include the Chairman and the Chief Wakeford to assist with this.
Following an additional internal Executive.
recommendation, the Committee recommended the Boardroom diversity appointment of Adrian Gardner to the Board.
Adrian took In reviewing Board composition, the Committee considers up his position as an executive director on 2 January 2014. the bene ts of all aspects of diversity, including differences Adrian brings a wealth of new experience and proven in skills, regional and industry experience, race and gender.
business acumen to the Company at a very exciting point Currently the Company considers candidates as nonin its development.
The Committee also oversaw the executives from a wide pool including those with little or no recruitment of Cathryn Riley as a non-executive director listed company board experience and reviews long lists of in conjunction with MWM Consulting.
Cathryn has over candidates, 50% of which are mandated to be women.
20 years experience in insurance and financial services.
The Company also only engages executive search rms Her appointment, effective from 12 February 2014, further who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on strengthens the Board.
Adrian and Cathryn will stand for gender diversity and best practice.
At the end of 2013, 13% election to the Board for the first time at the 2014 AGM.
of Board members were women.
The Committee has already Neither Hitchenor Wakeford nor MWM Consulting has any met its aim of having at least two female directors on the other connection with the Company.
50 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Board succession Tenure of current directors The Committee considered Board-level succession planning and the leadership required to support the Companys Strategy for Growth.
With this in mind, it recommended the 6 years Less than 1 year and over appointment of David Broadbent to the newly created role of Chief Commercial Of cer and recommended the appointment of Adrian Gardner as Chief Financial Of cer.
This enables David Broadbent, who had served as Finance Director since the Company was listed in 2007, to use his unrivalled knowledge of the business to help drive forward the strategic transformation and modernisation of the home 1 to 2 credit business.
years Tenure of non-executive directors At the beginning of the year, the Committee considered the extension of the terms of those non-executive directors 3 to 4 years whose appointments were nearing their end.
Taking into account its review of the composition of the Board and the requirements of the Code, the Committee recommended to the Board further three-year terms for Christopher Rodrigues, Tony Hales, Edyta Kurek and Nicholas Page.
Those directors, who are members of the Committee, were not present when their own tenure was discussed.
When the tenure of the Committee Chairman was discussed the Senior Independent Director took the chair.
The tenure of all current directors is shown opposite.
Other work The Committee also reviewed and approved Board and Committee meeting attendance for 2011 and 2012.
Attendance in 2013 is shown below.
Meetings of the Board and Board Committees Director Board Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Christopher Rodrigues 11 out of 11 5 out of 5 David Broadbent 11 out of 11 1 Tony Hales 10 out of 11 6 out of 6 5 out of 5 5 out of 5 2 Edyta Kurek 9 out of 11 4 out of 5 3 John Lorimer 2 out of 4 1 out of 2 1 out of 2 1 out of 1 4 Richard Moat 11 out of 11 6 out of 6 4 out of 4 5 Nicholas Page 10 out of 11 6 out of 6 5 out of 5 5 out of 5 Gerard Ryan 11 out of 11 5 out of 5 1 Tony Hales missed one Board meeting due to illness.
2 Edyta Kurek missed two Board meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting due to other business commitments.
3 John Lorimer missed one Board meeting, one Audit and Risk Committee meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting as he was in New Zealand and unable to dial in.
He also missed one Board meeting as he was out of the country on business.
He retired from the Board on 25 April 2013.
4 Richard Moat was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 24 April 2013.
5 Nicholas Page missed one ad hoc Board meeting as he was unable to dial in due to technical dif culties.
Remuneration Committee Report Full details of the membership and work of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 78.
51 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
