Corporate Governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT A comprehensive review of our overall operational governance and oversight structure was undertaken in 2013.
Nicholas Page Chairman Committee members provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, Nicholas Page Chairman balanced and understandable and provide the Tony Hales information necessary for shareholders to assess the John Lorimer until 25 April 2013 Groups performance, business model and strategy: Richard Moat make recommendations to the Board, for the Board to Overview put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the Membership appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external Our Audit and Risk Committee comprises three non-executive auditor and to approve their terms of appointment: directors and is chaired by Nicholas Page, a Fellow of the review and monitor the objectivity and independence of Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external and who has relevant and recent experience for the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK purposes of the Code.
Meetings related to risk are normally professional and regulatory requirements: attended by all members of the Board.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, attends the meetings related to audit and the review and approve the internal audit programme for the Chief Financial Of cer together with the Head of Compliance year and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit and Risk attend all meetings by invitation.
Periodically, senior function in the delivery of the plan: and management from across the Group are invited to present on speci c aspects of the business.
keep under review the Group Risk Register and consider the most important risks facing the Group The Committee also meets from time to time with the external and their mitigation.
auditor, without an executive director or member of the Groups senior management being present, to discuss the Work in 2013 external audit process.
The Head of Compliance and Risk Meetings reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which The Committee met six times during the year: twice to ensures his independence from the management and consider risk, three times to consider audit-related matters operation of the business.
and once to consider both risk and audit-related matters.
Committee responsibilities Financial reporting The objective of the Committee is to oversee the Groups The Committee reviewed and considered the following areas financial reporting, internal controls and risk management in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of the procedures together with the work performed by the external interim and annual Financial Statements: auditor and internal audit function.
The main responsibilities are as follows: the appropriateness of accounting policies used: keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups system compliance with external and internal financial reporting of internal control, including operational and compliance standards and policies: controls and risk management: signi cant judgements made by management: monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the disclosures and presentation: and Company and the formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing signi cant whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements are financial reporting judgements contained in them: fair, balanced and understandable.
52 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance In carrying this out, the Committee considered the work Regulation: The business is subject to regulatory scrutiny in and recommendations of management.
In addition, the multiple jurisdictions and at times it is appropriate to make Committee received reports from the external auditor setting provision for potentially adverse rulings by these regulatory out its view on the accounting treatments and judgements authorities.
The Committee received a report from the underpinning the Financial Statements.
The signi cant Group Legal Director outlining the various regulatory judgements considered by the Committee were: and other similar issues and managements approach.
External audit discussed the matter with the Group Legal Impairment of receivables: The key area of judgement Director, reviewed the external legal advice and reported in respect of impairment provisions made against its findings to the Committee.
customer receivables is the predictive accuracy of statistical models used to estimate future customer Internal control and risk management default rates and expected future timing of cash ows in Whilst the Board is responsible for the Groups system of respect of each portfolio.
At both the interim and full year internal control, this is delegated to the Committee.
The results the Committee considered a paper prepared by Committee, with the Board in attendance, reviews and management summarising the work performed to test approves the Group Risk Register.
The internal control the continued predictive capacity of these statistical environments in place to mitigate the impact of each models and to update them where appropriate.
risk are monitored by the Committee on a regular basis, The external auditor performed detailed audit procedures as are the principal actions being taken to improve these.
on impairment provisioning and reported its findings to The Committee requests additional presentations on the Committee.
key business areas as necessary to supplement their understanding of control environments in place.
The areas Revenue recognition: The judgement in respect of revenue covered by these in 2013 are referred to over the page in recognition is the methodology used to calculate the the Training section.
The internal controls in relation to the effective interest rate.
The external auditor performed preparation of consolidated Financial Statements are detailed procedures to assess managements calculations outlined on page 49. and assumptions used to calculate the effective interest rate and reported its findings to the Committee.
The Committee is supported in this work by the Risk Advisory Group, which comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive Hedge accounting: The Group uses derivative financial Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer, Chief Commercial Of cer, instruments, principally interest rate swaps and forward Group Legal Director, Head of Compliance and Risk, together currency contracts, to manage the interest rate and with other members of the leadership team.
The Risk Advisory currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business Group meets four times a year.
It reports to the Audit and operations.
The derivative financial instruments are Risk Committee and considers the risk assessments and assessed against the hedge accounting criteria in risk registers produced in each country, and updates the IAS 39 and, where they meet the requirements, hedge Group Risk Register.
It also considers areas of speci c risk accounting is applied.
The external auditor performed and particular issues.
detailed work to assess the control environment and judgements applied by management in their assessment It is recognised that any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement of hedge accounting and reported its findings to the Committee.
The Committee provides oversight and direction over the Provision for uncertain tax positions: The Group operates internal audit plan to ensure the plan provides it with in multiple jurisdictions where the taxation treatment independent assurance over the integrity of internal controls of transactions is not always certain and, therefore, and the operational governance framework.
In addition, management is required to make judgements, based our external auditor provides us with internal control reports on internal expertise and external advice, on the arising from the external audit review.
During the year, Deloitte methodology to be adopted for providing for uncertain did not highlight any material control weaknesses.
The external auditor performed detailed undertook a review of disaster recovery and contingency procedures to assess managements judgements and procedures and highlighted areas where these could be reported its findings to the Committee.
Deferred tax accounting: The key judgement in respect Internal audit of the Groups deferred tax assets, which arise largely During the year, prime responsibility for the provision of the from timing differences between the accounting and tax Companys internal audit service changed.
In 2013 the treatments of revenue and impairment transactions, is the Committee was satis ed that the Companys own internal extent to which the timing differences will reverse and a tax audit function had developed and matured to the point deduction will be obtained in future periods.
The external where the opinion on the Companys internal control auditor performed detailed procedures to assess whether environment could be provided by the Head of Compliance the recognition of the deferred tax asset is appropriate and Risk rather than PwC.
PwC has since been used to and reported its findings to the Committee.
support speci c thematic reviews where specialist technical knowledge was required.
53 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During 2013 a series of planned internal audit reviews was Committee.
In addition, the Committee ensured compliance undertaken in both eld operations and head of ce with the Groups policy on the use of the external auditor for environments.
These were split between basic assurance non-audit work.
The key requirements of this policy are: reviews, covering core controls across the business, and the external auditors may not undertake certain prohibited thematic reviews exploring topics agreed between internal services including internal audit, information technology, audit and management, including the items below: remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general Internal audit management consultancy: Basic assurance Thematic reviews the Head of Compliance and Risk must approve all Branch level reviews Group non-audit services: and Management of Review of administration administration, financial processes surrounding the the Committee Chairman must approve any individual control and legal money transfer product.
non-audit service over a speci c fee level.
compliance oversight Business continuity processes.
The Committee believes that the Group receives a particular bene t from certain non-audit services where a detailed Oversight of individual Collections and arrears branch performance management processes.
knowledge of its operations are important or where the auditor has very speci c skills and experience.
However, other monitoring and Administration of customer management.
large accountancy practices are used to provide services where appropriate.
During the year, the non-audit services Management of financial Information security loss detection and arrangements.
carried out by Deloitte were as follows.
Fee Transformation programme Non audit-services carried out by Deloitte in 2013 000 Head of ce reviews IT technical infrastructure.
Taxation compliance services 12 The existence and IT strategy.
Other assurance services 28 effectiveness of the controls Change management.
Total 40 used to monitor and manage each of the Group The Companys policy is to undertake a formal tendering key risks see pages 37 to exercise of the audit contract at least once every ten years.
The last tender exercise was carried out in March 2011 and Management of financial resulted in the appointment of Deloitte in May of that year.
Deloitte has now been external auditor for almost three years.
At its February 2014 meeting, the Committee recommended The Committee tracks the status of issues raised in control the reappointment of Deloitte to the Board and its reports closely.
During the year the volume and age pro le reappointment will be put shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
of outstanding control issues has remained within our risk appetite.
Training The Committee undertook a signi cant amount of training A comprehensive review of our overall operational during 2013.
This included sessions with Deloitte and PwC governance and oversight structure was undertaken in to strengthen understanding of cyber-security and the 2013 to provide advice to management on how this role of the Board in crisis management.
It also received should be best aligned to the needs of a growth business.
presentations on key business areas such as the financial The recommendations from this review were discussed and control framework, credit risk, customer service and customer agreed with the Committee and will be implemented in 2014. complaints, information security, the customer contact centre External auditor effectiveness and independence and central debt recovery.
This training was complemented The Committee considered the external auditors assessment by a visit to the Companys business in the Czech Republic, of the signi cant risks in the Groups Financial Statements set which included visits to branches and the call centre as out in its audit plan and approved the scope of the external well as presentations on strategy, marketing and the audit that addressed these risks.
The Committee considered customer experience.
these risks and the associated work undertaken by the Review of effectiveness external auditor when forming its judgement on the On behalf of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the Financial Statements.
effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal controls, The Committee monitored the effectiveness and conduct of including financial, operational and compliance controls the external audit by reviewing: and risk management systems during 2013.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant experience and capabilities of the auditors and the risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2013 calibre of the audit rm: and up to 26 February 2014.
In addition, the Committee, the delivery of its audit work in accordance with the where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have agreed plan: and been or are being taken to remedy signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from the review of the effectiveness the quality of its report and communications to of internal control.
The Committee has also undertaken a review of its own In order to con rm its independence, the external auditor effectiveness and concluded that it is effective.
issued a formal statement of independence to the 54 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
