Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of and disclosing the remuneration of executive directors Section 12 corporate governance and has put in place a framework for A.
2 of the UK Code are therefore not applicable.
corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an In compliance with the AIC Code, given the size of the Board, it investment company.
has decided that the full Board excluding the single nonindependent director should be responsible for remuneration Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes All companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock matters rather than appointing a separate remuneration Exchange are required to confirm their compliance with or committee.
explain departures from the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code.
This requirement applies regardless of where the company 2.
Re-election of all directors is incorporated.
The Board notes the AIC Code and UK Code suggest it would be good practice for all Directors to be offered for re-election at The Company is a member of the Association of Investment regular intervals subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The UK Code acknowledges that the AIC accordance with the Companys articles of incorporation, at least Corporate Governance Code AIC Code can assist externally one third of the Independent Directors and Mr Frost as the nonmanaged companies in meeting their obligations under the UK independent director will retire at each Annual General Meeting Code in areas that are of specific relevance to investment Principle 3 AIC Code.
The Company considers that putting companies.
forward all independent directors for re-election more frequently would not be in the best interests of shareholders, given the longThe Guernsey Financial Services Commission has also confirmed term nature of the Companys assets that benefit from a that companies that report against the UK Code or AIC Code are consistent approach across years both in terms of management deemed to meet the Guernsey Code of Corporate Governance.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment As such the Company takes the view that the benefits to Companies www.
The UK Code is available from the shareholders arising from the Directors long-term knowledge and Financial Reporting Council website www.
experience of these underlying assets and their management including their ongoing ability to review the performance of the The Company has complied throughout the year with all the Investment Advisor and other advisors outweighs the benefit of provisions of the AIC Code and as such also meets the UK Code more frequent re-election being applied to all directors.
However, except to the extent highlighted below.
In particular the Company during the current year a number of directors will seek re-election notes the following departures from the code for the reasons as as set out below.
Nomination of candidates to join the Board 1.
The role of the chief executive and executive The UK Code recommends a Nomination Committee, consisting of directors remuneration a majority of independent non-executive directors and chaired by As an investment company, most of the Companys day to day the chairman or an independent non-executive should act to responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
The Company does nominate candidates to join the Board Section 12 B.
2.4 of the not have any executive directors.
The UK Codes two separate UK Code.
principles of setting out the responsibilities of the chief executive The table below details all Directors of the Company at the date of this report.
Name Position Independent Date Appointed 1 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 1 Keith Dorrian Non-Executive Director Immediate Past Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 1 John Whittle Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director and Yes 6 August 2009 Chairman Audit and Risk Committee 1 Claire Whittet Non-Executive Director Chairman - Management Yes 10 September 2012 Engagement Committee 1 John Stares Non-Executive Director Chairman Risk Sub-Committee Yes 29 August 2013 1 All members of the Board are also committee members with the exception of Giles Frost.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Corporate Governance Report continued The AIC Code recommends the independent directors take the election would at the end of that term of office for more than lead in the appointment of new directors Principle 9 AIC Code.
nine years the Company will consider further whether there is a The Company has followed the AIC Codes principles.
Due to the risk that such a director might reasonably be deemed to have lost size of the Board and the fact that all but one of the directors are independence through such long service.
independent non-executives, the Company does not consider One third of the Directors retire by rotation at every AGM and will there is any benefit to be gained from establishing a separate therefore be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Any Nomination Committee as recommended by the UK Code.
Directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
The Chairman and the The Board of Directors The Board of Directors currently consists of six non-executive independent directors take the lead in any discussions relating to Directors, whose biographies, on pages 53-54, demonstrate a the appointment or re-appointment of directors taking into breadth of investment and business experience.
account the expertise of the candidates and their independence.
The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired Mr Dorey will retire in 2014 as a result of the retirement by by Mr Dorey who is responsible for leadership of the Board and rotation provisions in the Articles of Incorporation and Mr Frost ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Mr Dorey met will also retire in accordance with the UK Listing Authority Listing the independence criteria of the AIC Code and UK Code upon Rules and both will stand for re-election.
In accordance with its appointment and has continued to meet this condition policy Mr Stares, having joined the Board since the last AGM, will throughout his term of service.
Mr Whittle was appointed the also stand for election.
Mr Dorrian will retire and not stand for resenior independent director on 31 December 2013 and is as such election.
is an alternative point of contact for shareholders and leads in Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are appointed matters where it is not appropriate for the Chairman to do so.
under letters of appointment, copies of which are available at the Mr Frost is not an independent director, due to his relationship registered office of the Company.
The Board considers its with the Companys Investment Advisor.
In accordance with the composition and succession planning on an ongoing basis.
AIC Code all other non-executives are independent of the Companys Investment Advisor.
Board Performance Evaluation An internal evaluation of the performance of individual Directors and the Chairman was carried out in November 2013.
It concluded Appointments to the Board and gender diversity As noted above, Mr John Stares was appointed to the Board in that the Board is performing satisfactorily and is acquitting its August 2013 following the Boards search for a suitable director responsibilities well in the eight areas reviewed: Investment having canvased its advisors and other market participants for a matters: Board composition and independence: Relationships and list of suitable candidates.
Given the high calibre of applicants communication: Knowledge and skills: Board processes: through this process, the Board did not engage a search Shareholder value: Management: and performance of the consultancy.
The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of In accordance with the UK Code requirements, the Board skills, gender, knowledge and experience among its members to considers the need for an externally facilitated evaluation of the ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board Board at least every three years.
An external valuation will be members, its priority will always be based on merit, but will be undertaken during the 2014 financial year, the outcome of which influenced by the strong desire to maintain board diversity, will be reported to investors in subsequent reports.
The Board currently has one female director, and there has been one female on the Board almost since Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which inception of the Company.
establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
All new Directors receive an induction from the Investment These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Advisor on joining the Board, and in consultation with the Statutory obligations and public disclosure Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant ongoing training as necessary.
Approval of investment decisions Strategic matters and financial reporting Board Tenure and Re-election Board composition and accountability to shareholders No member of the Board has served for longer than eight years to Risk assessment and management, including reporting, date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered by the Board compliance, monitoring, governance and control with respect to long tenure.
In accordance with the AIC Code, Other matters having material effects on the Company when and if any director shall have been in office or on reINTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 42 Corporate Governance Report continued These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for Directors to demonstrate clearly the importance with which the taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means and other irregularities.
of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Board has established two committees consisting of the The Board monitors the Companys share price and NAV and independent non-executive Directors.
The responsibilities of these regularly considers ways in which future share price performance Committees are described below.
Terms of reference for each may be enhanced.
These may include implementing marketing Committee have been approved by the Board and are available in and investor relations activities, appropriate management of full on the Companys website.
share price premium discount and the relative positioning and performance of the company to its competitors.
The Board is also Board Remuneration During the year, serving Directors were paid the following The Board as a whole considers matters relating to the Directors emoluments: remuneration taking into account benchmark information and based upon the amount of work performed by the Board 2013 2012 members.
No advice or services were provided by any external Fees paid Fees paid persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration.
Director All fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by 2 3 Keith Dorrian 56,750 57,000 the Directors on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities 2 3 Rupert Dorey 46,750 47,000 borne by the Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and 1 3 motivate Directors of a quality required to run the Company Giles Frost 32,000 42,000 successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in 2 3 John Whittle 36,125 42,000 recognition of additional responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the 4 2 Claire Whittet 36,125 9,826 Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board reviews fee rates periodically, taking into account fees paid to directors of 5 John Stares 3,465 - comparable companies, although such a review will not 1 The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure necessarily result in any changes to the rates.
Limited, a related company of the Companys Investment Advisor 2 As detailed in the 2012 Annual Report, Directors fees increased from 1 There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the January 2013 3 Includes a 10,000 additional fee paid per Director for services undertaken in Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to Directors.
respect of the June 2012 capital raising 4 Any changes to Directors remuneration are considered at the Ms Whittet joined the Board on 10 September 2012 5 Mr Stares joined the Board on 28 August 2013 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 43 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors Interests Directors, who held office at 31 December 2013, had the following In respect to its risk management function, the Audit and Risk interests in the shares of the Company: Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Companys risk management framework including in connection with the 31 December 31 December acquisition and disposal of assets, the valuation of assets and 2013 2012 ensuring that the risk management function of the Investment Number of Number of Advisor, Administrator and other third party service providers are 1 1 Director Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares adequate and to seek assurance of the same.
2 Keith Dorrian 51,467 51,467 The Audit and Risk Committee, having reviewed the performance 3 Rupert Dorey 593,687 593,687 of the Auditor, has recommended to the Board that the Auditor be proposed for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting of Giles Frost 298,745 298,745 the Company.
2 John Whittle 38,393 36,626 Management Engagement Committee Claire Whittet - - The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of the full 4 John Stares - - Board, with the exception of Mr Frost, and is chaired by Ms 1 All shares are beneficially held Whittet.
The duties of the Management Engagement Committee 2 Holds shares indirectly through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the table above.
3 Shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse 4 Mr Stares joined the Board on 28 August 2013 The Management Engagement Committee carries out its review of There have been no changes to any of the above holdings the Companys advisors through consideration of a number of between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report.
objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions of the advisors appointments with the aim Mr Frost is also a Director of International Public Partnerships Lux of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and 1 Sarl a wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings of the Company, ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
and a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although he The Management Engagement Committee undertook a review of does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these the terms under which the Investment Advisor was engaged and entities.
following receipt of independent external advice recommended amendments to the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA and Audit & Risk Committee associated documentation which included: the removal of the The Audit and Risk Committee previously the Audit Committee is performance fee previously payable to the Investment Advisor: an comprised of the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost as the extension to the terms of the IAA: further reduction in non-independent director.
For the majority of 2013 risk management fee as NAV increases: and strengthening of the management was performed by the Board and audit oversight termination provisions available to the Board in the event of poor delegated to the then Audit Committee.
In November the Board performance.
These changes were approved by shareholders at approved extension of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 23 September 2013 to include risk and to establish the Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr and came into effect 1 July 2013.
Whittle is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee whereas Mr Stares has undertaken to assume lead responsibility for Risk.
As a The Management Engagement Committee also formally reviewed consequence, the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit the performance of the other key service providers to the and Risk Committee, which the Board believes is appropriate as Company.
During the 2013 review, no material weaknesses were Mr Dorey brings significant independent expertise in investment identified.
Overall the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with trusts and finance for the benefit of that Committee.
the services and advice received.
The duties of the Audit and Risk Committee in discharging its Board and Committee Meeting Attendance responsibilities are outlined in the table overleaf.
The Audit and The Board meets at least four times per year and in addition there Risk Committee is also responsible for monitoring the objectivity is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Advisor, the and effectiveness of the audit process, with particular regard to Administrator and Company Secretary.
The agenda and terms under which the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit supporting papers are distributed in advance of quarterly Board services.
In advance of non-audit work being undertaken by the and Committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and Companys Auditors, any potential threats to independence are to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
identified and if they cannot be suitably dealt with an alternative audit firm would be engaged.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 44 Corporate Governance Report continued In addition, the Board has established a Committee of any two Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as independent directors to consider and approve actions in Investment Advisor to the Company to review and monitor unexpected eventualities and investment approvals provided the investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic whole Board is able to review any relevant documentation prior to management of the investment portfolio.
Details of the its consideration by the Committee.
Investment Advisors relationship with the Company are provided within the Strategic Report.
The table below lists directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
In accordance with its normal practice the Board continues to hold discussions relating to the future strategy of the Company with Directors Qtrly Ad-hoc Audit and Management the Investment Advisor and regular formal and informal Board Board Risk Engagement discussions are held on this subject.
The Directors confirm that 3 Committee Committee they believe that it is in shareholders best interests to continue 4 6 3 4 Max no.
the appointment of Amber Fund Management Limited AFML as R Dorey 4 5 3 4 the Companys Investment Advisor.
K Dorrian 4 6 2 4 1 G Frost 4 - - - Making New Investments J Whittle 4 5 3 4 The independent directors of the Company make investment C Whittet 4 6 3 4 decisions with respect to new investments after reviewing 2 J Stares 2 - 1 1 recommendations made by the Companys Investment Advisor.
The Investment Advisor has a detailed set of procedures and 1 Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee or Management approval processes in relation to the recommendation of new Engagement Committee.
Mr Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as a director where recommendations from the Investment Advisor are under investments to the Board.
2 Mr Stares joined the Board on 28 August 2013.
3 It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Responsibility of Audit Committee expanded to incorporate Risk as of 31 December 2013.
It is likely that some of these investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may Relationship with Administrator & Company be acquired from other members of the Investment Advisors Secretary group.
Where that is the case the conflicts management process Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as summarised below is followed.
Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Managing Conflicts of Interest Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange conflicts of interest that may arise on investments acquired from listing requirements, money laundering regulation and the Investment Advisors group, and manage conduct in respect of observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this any such acquisitions.
As previously mentioned, the Companys respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
Board has a majority of independent members and a Chairman who is independent of the Investment Advisor.
Each Director is The Directors have access to the advice and services of the required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring interest prior to Board discussions.
that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey Law, The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include when an the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Amber entity is an existing investor in the target entity while an Exchange.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the associated company, AFML, acts on the buyside as Investment Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter Advisor to the Company.
The IAA contains procedures with the that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an vendors: and on the buyside the Company as Investment Advisor ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate cover must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and throughout the period.
the price of, the acquisition.
Relationship with the Investment Advisor The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
Under the Investment INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 45 Corporate Governance Report continued Key features of these procedures include: The Company has in place a detailed risk management framework, with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated The creation of separate committees representing the as necessary by the Board and Audit and Risk Committee on a interests of the vendors on the one hand the Sellside quarterly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the risks Committee and the Company on the other the Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length recommendation and facing the Company and controls and other measures in place to approval processes.
The membership of each committee is mitigate the impact of risks.
restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and minimise conflicts of interest arising managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
The process A requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct and has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of report to the Company on an independent due diligence approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer Risk Management Process A requirement for any offer made for the assets to be The Companys risk management process as overseen by the supported by advice on the fair market value for the Board can be summarised as: transaction from an independent expert The establishment of information barriers between the Buyside and Sellside Committees to ensure information that is kept confidential to one or the other side The provision of a release letter to each employee of the relevant associate of the Investment Advisor who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee Individuals with material direct or indirect economic interests in the relevant assets will not participate in Buyside Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets A requirement that the financial statements, policies and records of any such asset offered to the Company be compliant with the Companys accounting policies and Risk Identification procedures The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify risks with input from the Companys Investment Advisor and Administrator.
The The acquisition of all assets, including those from any associate of Board also receives detailed quarterly asset management reports the Investment Advisor is considered and approved in advance by highlighting performance and potential risk issues on an the Independent Directors of the Company.
such acquisition, the Independent Directors will, as they deem necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee of Risk Assessment the Investment Advisor and the Groups other advisors and the Each identified risk is weighted in terms of probability of acquisition will be approved by the Board on the basis of this occurrence, potential impact on financial performance and advice.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the movements in the relative significance of each risk from period to terms upon which any investment is acquired from a member of period.
the Amber group is on an arms length basis.
Action Plans to Mitigate Risk Where new risks are identified or existing risks increase in terms Risk Management and Internal Controls The Board is responsible for risk management with oversight of likelihood or impact, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the provided by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system of risk Company in developing an action plan to mitigate the risk and put management and internal control has been designed to manage, in place enhanced monitoring and reporting.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant risks and therefore the system of internal control cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 46 Corporate Governance Report continued The risk framework is applied holistically across the fund and the Re-assessment and Reporting of Risk Such risks mitigation plans are reassessed by the Audit and Risk underlying investment portfolio through vertically integrated Committee, where applicable with the relevant key service service support as illustrated in the diagram below.
providers and reported to Board on a quarterly basis.
Risk Framework and Systems of Internal Control The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
Whilst responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the management of risk is embedded as part of the everyday business and culture of the Company and its principal advisors.
All aspects of risk are overseen by the Board with delegation as relevant to the Audit and Risk Committee and Management Engagement Committee.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but because of the internal controls systems in place at the key service providers, and the independent controls process reviews performed it has decided instead to place reliance on those control and assurance processes.
The overall risk governance framework is the responsibility of the Board, overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee with input from the Management Engagement Committee.
It is implemented through three risk control levels.
Board Audit and Risk: and Management Engagement Committees Principal Advisors Risk Control Levels Investment Advisor Asset Manager Company Secretary Fund Administrator Relations with Shareholders Legal Advisor The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
It has Corporate Broker responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and announcements.
Corporate Bankers The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders The direct communication between the Company and its and the Chairman and other directors are available to meet Investment Advisor and the entity level asset manager is regarded shareholders as required.
During the period, the Board undertook as a key element in the effective management of risk and extensive soundings with over 50% of the shareholder base by performance at the underlying investment level.
The Company value in relation to the proposed changes to the IAA and, with benefits from a strong alignment of risk and management the assistance of the Investment Advisor held a successful performance approach at the Company and underlying Investor presentation day, ahead of the official opening of the investment levels through the provision of services from a Liverpool Central Library project.
vertically integrated Investment Advisor and investment level Asset Manager.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 47 Service providers Internal controls Independent controls and process reviews External audit Corporate Governance Report continued The Investment Advisor conducts the day-to-day investor relations which looks beyond legislative and regulatory requirements to activities for the Company.
It meets with major shareholders on a promote best practice and continual improvement in regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
During environmental management and social responsibility.
2013 the Investment Advisor and the Board held meetings with The Investment Advisor is certified to The Planet Mark and is over 110 individual shareholders.
The Board is also informed on a committed to measuring and reducing its carbon footprint and regular basis of all relevant market commentary on the Company wider sustainability metrics.
As a member of the UK Sustainable by the Investment Advisor, Administrator and the Companys Investment and Finance Association, it supports best practice in Broker.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the directors and The Company sees its key sustainability stakeholders as its with the Investment Advisor of the Company.
Investment Advisor and its employees, and the service providers it works with to deliver and manage infrastructure projects.
As a To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives result, the Company encourages its partners to report on and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information sustainability performance.
relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
The Company has an investor relations section on its website Many investment entities in which the Company holds www.
com where it makes investments achieve high standards in sustainability, including available all its publicly disclosed documents including annual building certifications such as BREEAM, LEED and Green Star.
reports and RNS announcements together with additional Project highlights: background information on its assets and corporate practices.
BMBF German Ministry of Education and Research acquired Investors can register to receive notification via email of RNS post 31 December 2013 The sustainable design includes announcements the Company issues.
The Board encourages photovoltaic panels, recycled glass panels, sustainable timber and investors to utilise this useful online resource.
Winner of the Project Finance Deal of the Year Award 2011 for European Government Accommodation projects.
Any shareholder issues of concern including on corporate governance or strategy can be addressed in writing to the Pforzheim Schools, Germany An innovative low energy heating, Company at its registered office address see back cover.
cooling and ventilation system has been successfully operating since 2008 and is the first of its kind to be used in a German Corporate Social and Environmental school.
Winner of the Innovation Award 2009 by the German Responsibility Federal Association Public Private Partnership BPPP.
Introduction Bootle PFI, UK Social and community involvement has included The Company is committed to its responsibility to the donations to a local food bank, work experience placements environment and having a positive role in the local and global through Future Workforce and fundraising for the charity Zoes community in which it operates.
The Company encourages high Place and the DEC Philippines Appeal.
Environmental standards in sustainability through an integrated approach to improvements include installation of waterless urinals, replacing managing and influencing our indirect environmental and social multiple lights with LED lighting and waste segregation including impacts.
The Company recognises the value of active food waste composting.
management in delivering quality services, risk management and resource efficiency.
Dublin Criminal Courts, Ireland - Energy saving initiatives since 2010 have resulted in an average 18% reduction in energy use per The Companys most material impacts are indirect, relating to the year.
Winner of New Build Project of the Year, CIBSE Sustainable environmental and social performance of the construction and Awards 2010. operation of the buildings and infrastructure which make up its portfolio.
Additionally, it recognises the importance of managing Hereford and Worcester Courts, UK - Three of the courts utilise a its relationship with its Investment Advisor and associated asset TermoDeck system, an energy efficient environmental control management operations including the energy and resources used solution that utilises the building's thermal mass to provide within its operations and their contribution to the local and global balanced ventilation with passive heating.
Tower Hamlets Schools, UK This project has partnered with The Company's Investment Advisor focuses on sustainability social organisations to deliver wider benefits to the local commitments, both within its operations and through the community.
This includes, working with KidSafe on a 'safe for kids' management of the projects and assets within the Companys scheme focusing on personal and road safety awareness, the East portfolio.
The Investment Advisor operates a Sustainability Policy INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 48 Corporate Governance Report continued End Shed, a theatre company for children, and Singing Changes in Regulation Playgrounds delivered through Ex Cathedra.
Energy initiatives in The Board actively monitors and responds to changes in various schools include solar PV panels, double glazed windows, regulation as it impacts the Company and its policies.
A number automatic heating controls, passive infrared sensors and efficient of significant changes to regulation occurred during the year.
The Companys response to these and significant other policies Durham Courts, Canada - This project has restored a four-acre are set out below: brown-field site to productive use and is contributing to the areas redevelopment.
The Durham Region Courthouse meets LEED Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive silver designation at completion of construction and has AIFMD AIFMD was transposed into law in European Union EU member committed to achieve LEED Gold certification after six years of states on 22 July 2013.
In the UK, a one year transition period is operation.
It is intended that the project will be certified under available to existing AIFMs.
The Board considers the Company to the Building Owners and Managers Association BOMA Go Green Plus program, requiring performance through a comprehensive be an internally managed non-EU fund.
A non-EU fund i. e. it is environmental management system, benchmarked against other the AIFM which is internally managed is outside the full scope of AIFMD and will only be the subject of lighter AIFMD requirements facilities in Canada.
The project was the winner of the 2013 BOMA at the point of marketing within the EU.
Earth Award for the office building in the 250,000 - 499,999 sq.
ft. category in recognition of excellence in resource preservation and Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA environmentally sound commercial building management.
FATCA became effective on 1 January 2013 and is being gradually implemented internationally.
The legislation is aimed at Gold Coast - GoldLinQ Rail project, Australia - As part of the determining the ownership of US assets in foreign accounts and Project Local Industry Participation requirement under the Project improving US Tax compliance with respect to those assets.
The Deed and government related Act, the project is currently Board is in discussion with the Companys service providers and achieving 94.75% of procurement of goods, services and advisors to ensure that the Company will comply with the Acts employment from the local economy, exceeding its stretched requirements to the extent relevant to the Company.
The project has also supported various social programmes Non-Mainstream Pooled Investment NMPI On 1 January 2014 FCA rules relating to the restrictions on the delivered through partners include: working with Surf Life Saving retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes Queenslands Gold Coast Nippers encouraging beach and public and close substitutes came into effect.
The Board believes that transport safety amongst children.
the Company and its shareholders will not be affected by these Orange & Associated Health Services, Australia Installation of changes.
energy sub-meters and improved Building Management System Having taken legal advice, the Company confirms that its shares controls to measure and reduce energy consumption.
Reduced will qualify as an 'excluded security' under these new rules and natural gas consumption through 72 roof mounted solar waterwill therefore be excluded from the FCA's restrictions which apply heater panels.
Winner of the Master Builders Association to non-mainstream investment products.
As such, the Company's Australia Award 2012 - Excellence in Building & Construction for shares can continue to be recommended by independent financial Orange Hospital: Winner Master Builders Association NSW advisors IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Award 2012 - Excellence in Building & Construction for Bathurst FCA's rules.
The Company is advised that the basis of being excluded from Royal Childrens Hospital, Australia Winner of the Infrastructure these restrictions is principally due to the Company conducting its Partnerships Australia National Infrastructure Awards 2012 - affairs in such a manner that it would have qualified for approval Project of the Year.
Winner of the Australian Property Institute - by HMRC as an investment that had been resident in the UK in its Environmental Development Award.
Winner of the International previous accounting periods.
The Company intends to conduct its Design and Health Academy Awards 2012 - Sustainability Design.
affairs so that this remains the case for the foreseeable future.
High Commendation in the Consult Australia Awards for Excellence 2012 - Sustainability Category.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 49
