governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information governance nomination committee report Gerald Corbett Chairman Nomination Committee During the year, as part of the new organisational design, a number Objective of changes were made to the membership of the Executive Team.
To lead the process for board and senior management Martin Rose, former Supply Chain Director, and Alan Beaney, former appointments and to make recommendations to the board.
Strategy Director, both retired at the end of the financial year.
Paul Graham - GB General Manager, Kevin Donnelly - Commercial Director, Responsibilities Ireland, and Jean-Luc Tivolle - General Manager France, became full The Committee is responsible for considering and recommending members of the Executive Team and PDMRs for the purposes of to the board persons who are appropriate for appointment as the UK Listing Rules with effect from 1 October 2013.
Biographies Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for other senior for Paul, Kevin and Jean-Luc may be viewed on our website at management roles, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of www.
com skills and experience within the company and on the board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the board.
Succession planning Whilst board succession planning has been less of an area of focus Membership during the last year, the Committee has agreed to spend more time The Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors, discussing the matter in the coming year.
Job profiles to commence Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow and myself as Chairman.
the search for two new Non-Executive Directors to succeed Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow during the next 12-18 months have been drawn up Meetings and a shortlist of external search consultancies is being considered to The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.
assist us with this process.
Bob and Michael have both been directors A third Committee meeting which was scheduled to be held in since the companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2005.
September was moved to October 2013.
Having been the companys Chairman since 2005, my succession Main activities during the year is something which the Committee will keep under review.
For the foreseeable future, however, I am excited to be working with, and to The Committee considered and made recommendations to the extend my support to Simon, our new Chief Executive Officer, as he board in respect of: leads the business through its new strategy and organisational model.
the appointment of Simon Litherland as our new Chief Executive Officer: Diversity senior management appointments including changes in the The board has determined it will monitor diversity through the membership of the Executive Team: Committee and more focus will be made in this area in the coming matters relating to succession planning, in particular, the tenure year and to the development of a company wide diversity policy.
of Bob Ivell, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the My medium term ambitions for the composition of the board are to Remuneration Committee, and Michael Shallow, Non-Executive bring in further manufacturing FMCG and international expertise.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee: and At Britvic, we see diversity as a wider topic than simply gender and the results of the external evaluation of the board, the directors the board will continue to recommend to the company that, in and the committees and, as part of that process, reviewed the order to achieve its future growth aspirations, it should remain continued independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
committed to building a pipeline of diverse talent and to regularly review its HR processes, including recruitment and performance Appointment of directors management frameworks.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Although we do have a number of women in senior operational appointment of new directors to the board under which the roles, we recognise that there is a gender imbalance on the board.
Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either Whilst the directors do not feel in a position to publish a target of by existing board members or by an external search firm.
Careful the percentage of women they aspire to having on the board, they consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough recognise that diversity is important to the success of the business time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, and will look to find opportunities to address this.
Any woman knowledge and experience on the board is maintained.
When appointed to the board, however, will be selected because they are discussions relate to the appointment of my successor, the Senior the best candidate for the role based on merit.
Independent Director chairs the Committee instead of me.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, as Chairman of the Our disclosure in relation to gender diversity within our organisation Committee, I will make a proposal to the whole board, which has can be found on page 9 within the Chief Executive Officers Review.
retained responsibility for all such appointments.
I also report on the outcome of Committee meetings to the board.
Board evaluation Details of the externally facilitated evaluation of the board, the Simon Litherlands appointment as Chief Executive Officer took directors and the board committees, including this Committee, can place in February this year.
Simon joined Britvic in September 2011 be found on pages 30 and 31. to perform the newly created role of Managing Director, GB.
When Paul Moody, our former Chief Executive, decided to retire at the Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the Committee has time the Office of Fair Trading referred the AG Barr plc merger in confirmed to the board that the present board and its committees February, the board was unanimous in its decision to appoint continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive Simon as his successor.
Simon was appointed a director on the Directors remained independent in accordance with the Code and board on 13 February 2013.
Further biographical details for Simon should stand for re-election at the AGM.
