governance overview business review financial statements shareholder information governance audit committee report Michael Shallow Chairman Audit Committee Objective Main activities during the year: To provide oversight and governance over the groups financial The Committee supports the board in carrying out its reporting, the internal control environment and processes in place responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, risk management to monitor this, risk management and the external auditors.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function and manages the relationship Responsibilities with the external auditor.
Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial Committee meetings usually take place just prior to a board statements and any significant financial reporting issues and meeting, where I report to the board on the activity of the judgements which they may contain: Committee and matters of particular relevance to the board.
Advising the board on whether the annual report and accounts, Following the revision to the Code, which applies to financial years taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the board asked the provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Committee to advise them on whether the annual report and companys performance, business model and strategy: accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards and and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and the companys performance, business model and strategy.
practices in place: The Committees terms of reference have been amended to reflect Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment and this and can be found on our website at britvic.
com corporatethe processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing the governance.
aspx performance of the internal audit team: The Committee undertook the following activities during the Reviewing risk management processes and considering the course of the year to discharge its responsibilities: adequacy of the actions being taken to reduce the risk exposure of the group in relation to the key risks: Financial reporting Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing The role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to their performance and advising the board on their appointment review that the half year and annual financial statements are and remuneration: appropriate.
The review is carried out with both management and the external auditor, and focus areas include evaluating whether: Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise issues with the board where a breach of conduct or The annual report and financial accounts represent a fair, balanced compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is and understandable view of information for shareholders: suspected.
Material areas of significant judgement have been given due consideration by management and reviewed with external auditors: Membership The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is The Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors, consistent across the group: Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and myself as Chairman.
The board is Clarity of disclosures and whether compliance to financial satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience as reporting standards is acceptable: required by the Code.
Any correspondence from regulators has been received in Meetings relation to our financial reporting.
The Committee meets three times a year: in November and May The review is based on reporting by the Group Financial Controller, to provide an appropriate time to review the annual report and as well as reports from the external auditor based on the outcomes accounts and interim report, respectively, and to consider the of their half year review and annual audit.
external audit findings, and in September to review the activities of the previous year and the plan for the year ahead.
This year the Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation Committee meeting scheduled for September was held in October.
to the 2013 accounts, and how these were addressed were: At each meeting the performance and findings of the internal audit Valuation of goodwill and indefinite lived assets team are reviewed and the most recent key risks are considered.
The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a Attendees at each of the meetings are the Committees members calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on as well as, by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General the board of directors.
The challenging economic conditions in the Counsel, the Head of Audit and Risk and the external auditor, Ernst UK and Europe increase the risk of impairment and the Committee and Young LLP.
A record of the meeting attendance by Committee addresses this by receiving reports from management outlining the members is set out on page 32. basis for assumptions used for cash generating units.
Business plans are signed off by the board and assessment models are Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with key reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditor, Ernst people without the presence of the others: in particular the & Young LLP provide reporting to the Committee.
external auditor, the internal management team and the Head of Audit and Risk.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 33 the audit committee report continued Derivative and hedging activities External auditor performance The group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting The external auditors, Ernst and Young LLP, provided the is applied and which swap principal and interest of US Private Committee with their plan for undertaking the year end audit at Placement notes.
The Committee reviews reporting on comparisons the Committee meeting in May 2013.
This highlighted the proposed of valuations to external confirmations, assessment of hedge approach and scope of the audit for the coming year and identified effectiveness and the quality of financial statement disclosures.
the key areas of audit risk, including the audit approach for these areas in some detail.
These key areas were primarily identified as Revenue recognition areas of judgement and complexity and included the valuation of The group recognises revenue when goods are delivered and goodwill and indefinite lived assets, the hedging of group borrowings, accepted by customers.
The Committee reviews the testing and revenue recognition and the valuation of the defined benefit controls of the revenue cycle, including long term discounts, pension scheme.
The Committee reviewed and appropriately promotional discounts and account development funds to ensure challenged the basis for these before agreeing the proposed that an IFRS compliant policy is in place and it is complied with.
approach and scope of the external audit.
Taxation The external auditors prepared a detailed report of their audit findings at the year end, which they were invited to take the Any uncertain tax positions within the group are reviewed to Committee through at the Committees meeting in November.
The ensure that the group effective tax rate is calculated at an findings were reviewed and discussed in detail by the Committee, acceptable level.
particularly in relation to the areas highlighted.
A similar review of Defined benefit pension scheme valuation the external auditors report of their findings at the half year review The Committee reviews benchmarks and assumptions that are is undertaken by the Committee.
As part of this review the provided by the groups actuaries and used to value the pension Committee question and challenge the work undertaken, the liabilities for the three defined benefit schemes.
The underlying findings and the key assumptions made, with particular attention to assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics the areas of audit risk identified.
of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external Independence and Reappointment auditors and reported on to the Committee.
The Committee reviews the independence of the auditors when Internal audit and control considering their reappointment following the year end close each The Committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the year, and during the year.
The external auditor is required to rotate internal audit team prior to the start of the year and, during each the lead audit partner every five years.
The current lead auditor of the meetings throughout the year, progress against this plan partner was rotated on during the year.
Ernst and Young LLP have was reviewed.
The plan was assessed on the basis of providing been the companys auditors since its stock market listing in 2005 appropriate coverage over the internal control environment to 8 years.
During that time the external auditor has not been provide the Committee with a balanced overview across the formally tendered: however, the Committee will continue to group, taking into account the level of risk and previous coverage.
regularly consider this in accordance with the audit tendering Additional areas of review were added to the plan as required provisions in the Code.
where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk and I have regular contact with the external audit partner outside of any changes to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the Committee meetings and without the management of the Committee.
The Committee received an update from the Head business present.
of Audit and Risk at each meeting summarising the findings of the internal audits undertaken and the progress made against actions The group is in the process of developing a revised policy regarding agreed from previous audits.
Detailed updates on specific areas the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, based are provided at the request of the Committee.
on best practice of a maximum audit to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1, except in exceptional circumstances.
There will be a transition to Risk management this policy with the intention to implement ahead of the re-tender The risk management process is reviewed annually by the of the audit services which will be undertaken for the September Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk 2015 year end.
In the meantime, control over non-audit fees is management across the group.
During the year the risk exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected management process was developed, and improvements to the to exceed 50,000, are subject to my prior approval and that of the identification and review of major risks were implemented.
If non-audit fees on a certain project are Committee believe that the improvements will further strengthen expected to exceed 150,000, prior approval of the Committee is the way that the business understands and manages risk.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures addition, the Committee reviewed the key risks on the corporate of the companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, during the year and risk register at the time of each meeting.
A detailed report was satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the external provided to the Committee from the Head of Audit and Risk, auditors has not been affected by the non-audit work undertaken showing movements in major risks and an update on risk by them.
Non-audit fees are disclosed in note 7 to the report mitigation activity undertaken in relation to those risks.
of the key risks and uncertainties to which the business is exposed to can be found on pages 19 to 21.
Committee evaluation External audit The Committee was included in the external board evaluation There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation performed during the year, the details of which can be found to the external auditors: their performance in discharging the audit on pages 30 and 31. and interim review of the financial statements, their independence and objectivity, and their reappointment and remuneration.
