go governance vernance ove over rv viiew ew business re business revie view w financial st financial statements atements shareholder inf shareholder information ormation governance corporate governance report Board evaluation Dear Shareholder In the spirit of continuous improvement and in seeking a regular We believe that good governance reduces evaluation of the boards own effectiveness, we invited Ffion Hague risk and adds value to our business.
As such, of Independent Board Evaluation to interview the directors and senior executives as part of a comprehensive review of the board the board is committed to high standards of and its committees performance during the year.
Ms Hagues corporate governance and supports the findings are summarised on page 31. principles laid down in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
Gerald Corbett I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report which Chairman includes individual reports from the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee as 25 November 2013 part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 54.
Together, these describe how we conduct our operations in line with the Codes provisions and other accepted principles of good corporate governance.
Board composition Your board is also committed to remaining effective and recognises that to do so it must ensure that it has the right balance of skills, independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
This is particularly important to ensure that the board is best placed to support our new strategy.
With the exception of the appointment of Simon Litherland, our new Chief Executive Officer, resulting in a change to the executive membership this year, no changes have been made to the boards composition for some time.
However, as part of our ongoing succession planning, we are seeking to recruit two new NonExecutive Directors to add to and to refresh the boards skills and experience during the course of the next 12-18 months.
My medium term ambitions for the composition of the board are to bring in further manufacturing FMCG and international expertise, and, without disregarding the desire to give consideration to all candidates based on merit and their overall suitability for the role, to seek to achieve a greater diversity of board members.
The boards succession planning activities and the steps it is taking to develop its policy on diversity, are discussed in my Nomination Committee Report on page 35.
For further details of the directors biographies please see pages 26 and 27.
