Corporate governance report Corporate governance report All international business units operate in Joint chairmens accordance with the above determined Sound corporate introduction corporate governance requirements, in governance is addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group implicit in our Dear shareholder values and culture.
values, culture, Introduction 2013 areas of focus processes, We are pleased to present the 2013 annual Leadership functions and corporate governance report which sets t In 2012 we commissioned an externally organisational out Investecs approach to corporate facilitated board effectiveness review.
governance and more specically, how structure.
Whilst the review, conducted by we as joint chairmen ensure that we Professor Rob Goffee of the London Structures are discharge our duties of leading the board Business School, concluded that and ensuring the boards effectiveness in designed to ensure the board was operating effectively, carrying out its role.
there were areas which the board felt that our values it could improve and we have been Regulatory context remain embedded driving a programme to ensure that The disclosure of our governance practices in all businesses these improvements are implemented.
requires a description of the regulatory Further details are set out in the report and processes.
context that Investec, as a dual listed of the nominations and directors affairs We continually company DLC, operates within.
committee NOMDAC rene these The board, management and employees of t One of these areas was to further Investec are committed to complying with structures and a strengthen the involvement of the the disclosure and transparency rules and non-executive directors in developing written statement listing rules of the United Kingdom Listing and challenging proposals on strategy.
Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE of values serves as Accordingly, the boards annual strategy listings requirements, regulatory requirements session was, for the first time, facilitated our code of ethics.
in the countries in which we operate, the by an external third party.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Board effectiveness Code and the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa King III.
Therefore t Composition of the board and audit all stakeholders are assured that we are committees: being managed ethically and in compliance During the year under review with the latest legislation, regulations and we appointed David Friedland as best practices.
an independent non-executive director and member of the Our culture and values audit committees.
As from Underpinning these legislative, regulatory 8 August 2013 David will succeed and best practice requirements are Sam Abrahams as chairman of the Investecs values and philosophies, which audit committee.
provide the framework against which t Composition of the DLC remuneration we measure behaviour and practices so committee: as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that George Alford has stepped down as directors and employees act with integrity chairman of the DLC remuneration and conduct themselves to promote and committee, with effect from 3 maintain trust.
31 March 2013, and Olivia Dickson was appointed as acting chairman in Sound corporate governance is therefore his place for a period of six months.
implicit in our values, culture, processes, Bradley Fried was appointed as a functions and organisational structure.
member of the committee, effective Structures are designed to ensure that our from 3 April 2013.
Although Bradley values remain embedded in all businesses is not considered to be independent and processes.
We continually rene these as he was employed as Investec structures and a written statement of values Bank plc CEO during the five years serves as our code of ethics.
prior to appointment as a director, As noted, we operate under a DLC his knowledge and experience of the structure, and consider the corporate group is deemed to be beneficial to governance principles and regulations the workings of this committee and of both the UK and South Africa before is believed to be in the best interests adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 81 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Board committee structure has the appropriate balance of and overall suitability for the role, skills, experience, independence the NOMDAC will be mindful of the t We are currently reviewing the and knowledge of the group.
value of diversity as it progresses committee structure supporting the The board has agreed, on the the structured refreshment Investec plc audit committee in light recommendation of the NOMDAC, programme described above.
of regulatory changes in the UK, to implement a structured As described in our sustainability particularly following the implementation refreshment programme so as report, diversity and employment of the new Twin Peaks model of to ensure that we are recruiting equity are issues on which the regulation and the additional focus new, independent non-executive group continues to focus.
Going on conduct risk and outcomes for directors and retiring some of forward we intend working with consumers.
our longer serving non-executive the NOMDAC and the board directors over a period of years.
In to articulate a policy on board 2014 priorities this regard, discussions have been diversity reective of UK and South In broad terms, our priorities for 2014, from concluded with two non-executive African regulatory and governance a corporate governance perspective, are as directors that they will not stand requirements.
follows: for re-election at the August 2014 Conclusion annual general meeting.
Leadership Per Lord Davies report on Women We acknowledge that the environment in t A key responsibility of the joint on Boards, the board, has an which we operate provides challenges from chairmen is to ensure that the board aspirational target of 25% female a governance and regulatory perspective: receives the appropriate information it representation on the board by however, we are confident that our culture requires in order to discharge its duties.
The board acknowledges the and values will continue, as ever, to provide We have commissioned a review of value to be derived from bringing the group with a strong foundation that will the information that the board currently together on the board individuals enable the board and group to meet these receives to ensure that, in this fast with a broad range of backgrounds, challenges going forward.
changing regulatory environment, it experience and outlook.
is recognised to be an important Board effectiveness part of that diversity and currently the board composition includes t Composition of the board: 4JS %BWJE 1SPTTFS 'BOJ 5JUJ three women.
While non-executive Joint chairmen The NOMDAC continues to appointments are based on merit focus on ensuring that the board Governance framework Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration DLC board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs Audit committees committee capital committee ethics committee committee committee Executive Audit DLC capital Group legal risk review sub-committees committee risk forums 3 forum Global Deal forum forums new product Audit and compliance committees forum implementation forums Global credit committee Internal Global market risk forum audit Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees Global IT steering committee Compliance Global compliance forum Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities 82 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued continue in business for the foreseeable Statement of compliance future.
The assumptions underlying the The board meets going concern statement are discussed UK Corporate Governance its objectives by at the time of the approval of the annual Code 2010 reviewing and financial statements by the board and The board is of the opinion that, based on these include: guiding corporate the practices disclosed throughout this report, which were in operation during the t Budgeting and forecasts strategy, setting year under review, the group has complied the groups values t profitability with the relevant provisions set out in the and standards, UK Corporate Governance Code the t Capital Code, save that: promoting t Liquidity.
high standards t Bradley Fried, who is not considered to be independent as he was employed as In addition, the directors are responsible for of corporate Investec Bank plc CEO during the five monitoring and reviewing the preparation, governance, years prior to appointment as a director, integrity and reliability of the Investec was appointed as a member of the plc and Investec Limited combined approving key DLC remuneration committee on and consolidated financial statements, policies and 3 April 2013.
Given the increasing accounting policies and the information complexity of remuneration policy and objectives, ensuring contained in the annual report.
its application to the group, Bradleys that obligations to knowledge and experience of the In undertaking this responsibility, the group is deemed to be beneficial to its shareholders and directors are supported by an ongoing the workings of this committee and is process for identifying, evaluating and other stakeholders believed to be in the best interests of managing the significant risks Investec shareholders are understood and faces in preparing the financial and other information contained in this annual t Fani Titi, on his appointment as joint met.
chairman in November 2011, was not report.
This process was in place for the considered independent at the time year under review and up to the date of in view of his previous connection approval of the annual report and financial with Tiso Group Limited.
a material relationship with Investec Limited arising from the empowerment The process is implemented by transaction concluded in 2003 as in management and independently light of South Africas Financial Sector monitored for effectiveness by the audit, Charter.
Fani resigned as board risk and other sub-committees of member and chairman of Tiso during the board March 2008 and as the UK Corporate Governance Code requires a five year Further information is provided break in the relationship, going forward on pages 89 to 97.
Fani will be regarded as independent.
The significant risks we continue to face King III include risks owing from the instability in the global financial market and the The board is of the opinion that, based on global economic environment that could the practices disclosed throughout this affect Investecs businesses, earnings and report, which were in operation during the financial condition.
year under review, Investec has applied the King III principles.
3 Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, taking into For a complete list of all consideration: principles and a reference to demonstrate how Investec has t The groups strategy and prevailing applied these principles, please market conditions and business refer to our website.
environment t Nature and complexity of our business Financial reporting and t Risks we assume, and their going concern management and mitigation The directors are required to confirm t Key business and control processes in that they are satisfied that the group, as operation well as Investec plc and Investec Limited individually, have adequate resources to t Credit rating and access to capital Investec integrated annual report 2013 83 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued t Needs of all our stakeholders Internal control Processes are in t Operational soundness Risks and controls are reviewed and place to monitor monitored regularly for relevance and t Accounting policies adopted internal control effectiveness.
The DLC board risk and t Corporate governance practices capital committee BRCC and audit effectiveness, committees assist the board in this regard.
t Desire to provide relevant and clear identify and Sound risk management practices are disclosures promoted by the group risk management report material function, which is independent of t Operation of board committee support breakdowns, and operational management.
ensure that timely recognises its responsibility for the overall The board is of the opinion, based on its risk and control framework and for and appropriate knowledge of the group, key processes reviewing its effectiveness.
corrective action is in operation and specic enquiries, that Internal control is designed to mitigate, there are adequate resources to support taken.
not eliminate, significant risks faced.
the group as a going concern for the It is recognised that such a system foreseeable future.
provides reasonable, but not absolute, Further information on our assurance against material error, omission, liquidity and capital position is misstatement or loss.
This is achieved provided on pages 63 to 74 in within the group through a combination volume two and pages 80 to 83 of risk identication, evaluation and in volume two.
monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance Furthermore, the board is of the opinion and control functions such as group that the groups risk management risk management, internal audit and processes and the systems of internal compliance.
These ongoing processes, control are effective.
which comply with the Turnbull guidance, were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Management and annual report and financial statements.
succession planning Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, Global business unit heads, geographic Group Risk Management and the relevant management and the heads of central audit committee.
Appropriate processes, and group service functions are appointed including review by the audit and compliance by executive management and endorsed implementation forums, ensure that timely by the board, based on the skills and corrective action is taken on matters raised experience deemed necessary to perform by internal audit.
significant risks are regularly the required function.
In general, managers considered by the executive risk review do not have xed term employment forum ERRF and by the BRCC.
Material contracts and there are no employment incidents and losses and significant breaches contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
of systems and controls are reported to the BRCC and the audit committees.
Reports Our management structure, from the audit committees, BRCC and risk reporting lines and the division of and control functions are reviewed at each 3 responsibilities are built around board meeting.
a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted Certain statutory duties with respect to on page 55. directors conict of interest are in force under the UK Companies Act 2006 and Each strategic business unit has a the South African Companies Act 2008, as management committee and is responsible amended.
In accordance with these Acts for implementing operational decisions, and the Articles of Association Articles managing risk and aligning divisional of Investec plc and the Memorandum of objectives with the group strategy and Incorporation MOI of Investec Limited, vision.
the board may authorise any matter that otherwise may involve the directors Matters of succession are regularly breaching their duty to avoid conicts considered by the NOMDAC.
The board has adopted a 84 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued procedure, as set out in the Articles and identical and the group is managed as a to the various board committees and MOI, that includes a requirement for unied economic enterprise.
The board group forums directors to submit, in writing, disclosures seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and t In fullling its responsibilities, the detailing any actual or potential conict judgement in pursuit of strategic goals board is supported by management in for consideration and, if considered and objectives, to achieve long-term implementing the plans and strategies appropriate, approval.
The approved by the board.
board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides Furthermore, directly or through its subleadership for the group within a framework Internal financial controls committees, the Investec board: of prudent and effective controls which Internal financial controls are based on allows risks to be assessed and managed.
t Assesses the quantitative and established policies and procedures.
qualitative aspects of Investecs The board has adopted a board charter, Management is responsible for performance through a comprehensive which provides a framework of how the implementing internal financial controls, system of financial and non-financial boards operate as well as the type of ensuring that personnel are suitably monitoring involving an annual budget decisions to be taken by the board and qualied, that appropriate segregation process, detailed monthly reporting, which decisions should be delegated to exists between duties, and that there is regular review of forecasts and regular management.
These areas management strategic and operational are monitored by the board through the updates The Investec board: audit committees and are independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
t Approves annual budgets, capital t Approves the groups strategy plans, projections and business plans Processes are in place to monitor internal t Ensures that the group complies with t Monitors the groups compliance with control effectiveness, identify and report the applicable laws and regulations and material breakdowns, and ensure that relevant laws, regulations and codes of considers adherence to non-binding timely and appropriate corrective action business practice rules and standards is taken.
Group Finance and Investor t Ensures there are processes in Relations coordinate, review and comment t Is responsible for the governance place enabling complete, timely, on the monthly financial and regulatory of risk, including that of information relevant, accurate and accessible reports, and facilitate the interim and annual technology IT risk disclosure to stakeholders and financial reporting process, including the monitors our communication with all t Acts as a focal point for, and the independent audit process.
stakeholders and disclosures made custodian of corporate governance to ensure transparent and effective t Provides effective leadership on an communication Directors dealings ethical foundation t Identies and monitors key risk areas The remuneration report, as t Ensures the group is, and is seen to be, and key performance indicators set out on pages 113 to 136, a responsible corporate citizen.
contains details of Investec t Reviews processes and procedures to The board meets its objectives by reviewing shares held by directors.
ensure the effectiveness of the internal and guiding corporate strategy, setting the systems of control Directors dealings in the securities of groups values and standards, promoting Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject t Ensures we adopt sustainable business high standards of corporate governance, to a policy based on regulatory requirements practices, including our social and approving key policies and objectives, and governance best practice.
environmental activities ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood All directors dealings require the prior t Assisted by the audit committee, and met, understanding the key risks, approval of the Compliance division and ensures appropriate IT governance determining our risk tolerance and approving one of the joint chairmen or, in the absence processes are in place, the and reviewing the processes in operation 3 of both the joint chairmen, George Alford implementation of which management to mitigate risk from materialising, including as the senior independent director or is responsible for, and ensuring that the the approval of the terms of reference of key Sam Abrahams as the chairman of the process is aligned to the performance supporting board committees.
and sustainability objectives of the audit committees.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities board Certain matters are specically reserved require approval by line management, the for the board.
To achieve its objectives, the t Monitors and evaluates significant Compliance division and one of the joint board may delegate certain of its duties IT investments and expenditure chairmen.
and functions to various board committees, group forums or the chief executive officer, t Ensures information assets are without abdicating its own responsibilities: managed effectively Board of directors t The board has formally dened and t Ensures the appropriate risk In terms of DLC arrangements, the boards documented, by way of terms of governance, including IT, is in place of Investec plc and Investec Limited are reference, the authority it has delegated including continual risk monitoring Investec integrated annual report 2013 85 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued by management, determines the excluding Sam Abrahams, will offer itself UK Corporate Governance Code in that levels of risk tolerance and that risk for re-election at the 2013 annual general at least half the board, excluding the assessments are performed on a meeting.
chairmen, comprises independent continual basis non-executive directors Board meetings t As at 31 March 2013, the board t Ensures the integrity of the groups The combined boards of Investec plc and is compliant with Chapter 2, integrated report, which includes Investec Limited meet jointly at least six sustainability reporting Principle 2.18 of King III in that the times annually, excluding the annual two majority of non-executive directors day board strategy session.
Three board t Ensures the induction of, and ongoing are independent.
meetings were held in the UK and three in training and development of, directors A summary of the factors the board uses South Africa, in line with the requirements t Evaluates the performance of senior of our DLC structure.
to determine the independence of nonmanagement and considers succession executive directors is detailed below.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc planning.
Relationships and associations and Investec Limited held one additional Membership meeting each in the UK and South Africa, t Peter Malungani is the chairman of respectively.
Special unscheduled Peu Group Pty Ltd Peu.
Peu had At the end of the year under review, meetings are called as the need arises.
a material relationship with Investec the Investec board, excluding the joint Limited as a result of the empowerment chairmen, comprised four executive The joint chairmen are responsible for transaction concluded in 2003 in light of directors and 11 non-executive directors.
setting the agenda for each meeting, South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
in consultation with the chief executive Biographical details of the Accordingly, the board concluded officer and the company secretaries.
directors are set out on that Peter could not be considered Comprehensive information packs on pages 99 and 100. independent under the UK Corporate matters to be considered by the board Governance Code and King III The names of the directors at the date of are provided to directors in advance of the this report, the year of their appointment meetings.
t Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard and their independence status for the year Kantor, Investecs managing director.
Ian Independence under review are set out in the table below.
was also previously CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded t As at 31 March 2013, the board is In accordance with the UK Corporate that Ian could not be considered compliant with Principle B.
1.2 of the Governance Code, the entire board, independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III Date of appointment t Bradley Fried resigned as CEO of Investec Bank plc and as an employee OWFTUFD of Investec during March 2010.
The OWFTUFD QMDJNJUFE OEFQFOEFOU board soon thereafter appointed Bradley as a non-executive director Executive directors due to his specic business skills, S Koseff chief executive officer 26 Jun 2002 6 Oct 1986 knowledge and experience in the group B Kantor managing director 26 Jun 2002 8 Jun 1987 which is valuable to the organisation.
Accordingly, the board concluded GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 Jul 2002 3 Jul 2002 that Bradley could not be considered HJ du Toit 15 Dec 2010 15 Dec 2010 independent under the UK Corporate Non-executive directors Governance Code and King III.
Sir David J Prosser joint chairman 23 Mar 2006 23 Mar 2006 Yes Despite the board concluding that Peter, F Titi joint chairman 30 Jan 2004 30 Jan 2004 No Ian and Bradley cannot be considered 3 independent for the reasons explained SE Abrahams 26 Jun 2002 21 Oct 1996 Yes above, the board is of the view that their GFO Alford senior independent director 26 Jun 2002 26 Jun 2002 Yes skills, knowledge, experience and attributes CA Carolus 18 Mar 2005 18 Mar 2005 Yes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation PKO Crosthwaite 18 Jun 2010 18 Jun 2010 Yes and believe they do and will use their independent judgement when making OC Dickson 31 Mar 2011 31 Mar 2011 Yes decisions that affect the organisation and B Fried 1 Apr 2010 1 Apr 2010 No stakeholders.
D Friedland 1 Mar 2013 1 Mar 2013 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 2003 21 Jul 2003 Yes Tenure IR Kantor 26 Jun 2002 30 Jul 1980 No The board follows a robust process of assessing independence on an annual MP Malungani 26 Jun 2002 26 Jun 2002 No basis for each director whose tenure PRS Thomas 26 Jun 2002 29 Jun 1981 Yes exceeds nine years.
The board does not F Titi is regarded as independent as from 1 April 2013 and will be reected as such believe that tenure of any of the current going forward.
86 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued %FUBJMT PG EJSFDUPST BUUFOEBODF BU UIF TJY SFHVMBS CPBSE NFFUJOHT IFME EVSJOH UIF non-executive directors materially interferes OBODJBM ZFBS FOEFE.
BSDI with their independence of judgement and their ability to act in Investecs best interests.
FFUJOHT concluded that Fani Titi, George Alford, BUUFOEFE Peter Thomas, Sam Abrahams and Haruko Executive directors Fukuda, despite having been directors of Investec for nine years or more, retain both S Koseff chief executive officer 6 financial independence and independence B Kantor managing director 6 of character and judgement.
Sam will not GR Burger group risk and finance director 6 however offer himself for re-election at the HJ du Toit 6 upcoming annual general meeting.
Non-executive directors Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in Sir David J Prosser joint chairman 6 the UK Corporate Governance Code and F Titi joint chairman 6 King III, the board is of the view that these SE Abrahams 6 non-executive directors are independent GFO Alford senior independent director 6 of management and promote the interests CA Carolus 6 of stakeholders.
The balance of executive PKO Crosthwaite 6 and non-executive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to OC Dickson 6 ensure a balance of power, such that no B Fried 6 one individual or group can dominate board D Friedland 1 processes or have unfettered powers of H Fukuda OBE 6 decision making.
The board believes that IR Kantor 6 it functions effectively and evaluates its MP Malungani 6 performance annually.
PRS Thomas 6 Attendance at risk management The number of meetings held during the year also excludes the single additional meeting of meetings Investec plc only and Investec Limited only.
Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas regularly attend, by invitation, certain %FUBJMT PG EJSFDUPST BUUFOEBODF BU UIF UISFF OPO SFHVMBS CPBSE NFFUJOHT IFME EVSJOH UIF credit committees of the group.
BSDI board considers their attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of.
FFUJOHT developing an understanding of the BUUFOEFE day-to-day issues facing the business.
Executive directors This further allows Sam to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as S Koseff chief executive officer 3 chairman of the Investec plc and Investec B Kantor managing director 3 Limited audit committees.
The board GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 concluded that Sam and Peter retain their HJ du Toit independence of character and judgement.
Non-executive directors Going forward, David Friedland will attend certain credit committees for the same Sir David J Prosser joint chairman 3 reasons as explained above.
F Titi joint chairman 3 SE Abrahams 3 3 Skills, knowledge, experience GFO Alford senior independent director 3 and attributes of directors CA Carolus 1 The board considers that the skills, PKO Crosthwaite 2 knowledge, experience and attributes of OC Dickson 2 the directors as a whole are appropriate B Fried for their responsibilities and the groups D Friedland 2 activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board including: H Fukuda OBE 2 IR Kantor t International business and operational MP Malungani experience PRS Thomas 2 t Understanding of the economics of the Hendrik du Toit recused himself from two of the three non-regular board meetings.
sectors in which the group operates David Friedland was appointed with effect from 1 March 2013.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 87 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued t Knowledge of the regulatory 18 and 19 March 2013 which ensured that the non-executive directors environments in which the group Results showed obtained a clearer appreciation of operates that the board strategic priorities.
This helped the t Financial, accounting, legal and banking was satisfied with board achieve an appropriate balance experience and knowledge.
between performance demands and various aspects of regulatory requirements The skills and experience prole of the board governance board and its committees are regularly t #PBSE NFDIBOJDT The board and functioning reviewed by the NOMDAC, to ensure an suggested a need to review the appropriate and relevant composition information that it receives to ensure and described a from a governance, succession and that, in this fast changing regulatory board regarded effectiveness perspective.
environment, the information ows to as operating with the board facilitate a focus on both Board and directors past performance and key risks facing high levels of trust performance evaluation the business to facilitate non-executive and integrity: and challenge.
Accordingly a review has As noted in the joint chairmens commenced to map information ows with high standards introduction, the board commissioned a throughout the governance structure board effectiveness review the Review of corporate and present recommendations to conducted by an external, independent governance.
the board on appropriate reporting facilitator, Professor Rob Goffee of the requirements going forward London Business School.
Professor Goffee has no connection with the group.
t #PBSE EZOBNJDT BOE DVMUVSF In the context of preserving strongly The Review took the form of a detailed established values of trust, openness questionnaire as well as a series of structured and commercialism with the evolving interviews held individually with each of the requirements of a maturing organisation directors.
All board directors were interviewed and shifting regulatory landscape, during the course of the Review and all concerns were expressed about the directors completed the questionnaire.
balance and refreshment of the board.
It was agreed in consultation with Overall, the results showed that the board the NOMDAC to take the necessary was satisfied with various aspects of board measures in respect of the balance governance and functioning.
The board is of non-executives to executives as regarded as operating with high levels of well as to embark on a refreshment trust and integrity and high standards of programme.
Further details are corporate governance.
Particular strengths were noted as being: Terms of appointment t Risk management On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
t Functioning of the audit committees The letter sets out, among other things, t Overall standards of corporate duties, responsibilities and expected governance, trust and integrity time commitments, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, t Teamwork of the joint chairmen and where appropriate, details of the board separation of their roles from the group committees of which the non-executive chief executive officer director is a member.
We have an insurance 3 policy that insures directors against liabilities t Teamwork of the executive directors they may incur in carrying out their duties.
t Free and open exchange of discussions On the recommendation of the NOMDAC, that take place at board meetings.
non-executive directors will be appointed for an expected term of nine years Areas for improvement included: three times three year terms from the date t 4USBUFHZ BOE TUSVDUVSF There of their first appointment to the board.
was scope for the board to have a clearer appreciation of strategic priorities to improve the contribution of the board to the groups strategic direction.
An externally facilitated strategy session was held on 88 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Companies Acts and the listings and Ongoing training and Joint chairmen and chief governance requirements as applicable.
development executive officer The roles of the joint chairmen and chief In addition, the board confirms that neither On appointment, directors are provided executive officer are distinct and separate.
of the company secretaries has served as a with an induction pack and participate The joint chairmen lead the board and director on the board of Investec plc in an induction programme tailored to are responsible for ensuring that the and or Investec Limited, nor do they their needs, including meeting with the take part in board deliberations and only board receives accurate, timely and clear business unit and central services heads advise on matters of governance, form or information to ensure that the directors can to ensure they become familiar with procedure.
The review was for the period perform their duties effectively.
business operations, senior management, 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. our business environment and internal Details of the joint chairmens controls, policies, processes and systems external directorships are set out for managing risks.
Board committees Directors ongoing training and The board does not consider that the joint development is a standing board agenda In exercising control of the group, the chairmens external commitments interfere item, including updates on various directors are empowered to delegate to with their performance and responsibilities various board and executive committees.
The board is satisfied that the The committees have specic terms of Board members receive regular formal joint chairmen make sufficient time available reference, appropriately skilled members presentations on regulatory and governance to serve Investec effectively.
and access to specialist advice when matters as well as on the business and necessary.
Regular interactive The board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
workshops are arranged between directors The full terms of reference are and the heads of risk management, control available on our website.
Senior independent director functions and business units.
George Alford is the senior independent The company secretaries liaise with director.
He is available to address any directors to source relevant seminars and concerns or questions from shareholders conferences which directors could attend, and non-executive directors.
Company secretaries Following the boards and directors David Miller is the company secretary of performance evaluation process, any Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the training needs are communicated to the company secretary of Investec Limited.
company secretaries who ensure these The company secretaries are professionally needs are addressed.
qualied and have experience gained During the year under review, a number of over a number of years.
Their services are director workshops were arranged outside evaluated by board members during the board meetings.
They are responsible for the ow of information to the Independent advice board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All Through the senior independent director directors have access to the advice and or the company secretaries, individual services of the company secretaries, directors are entitled to seek professional whose appointment and removal are a independent advice on matters related board matter.
to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
In compliance with the JSE Listings No such advice was sought during the 3 Requirements, the board has considered 2013 financial year.
and is satisfied that each of the company secretaries is competent, has the relevant Remuneration qualications and experience and maintains Details of the directors an arms-length relationship with the remuneration and remuneration board.
In evaluating these qualities, the process are set out in the boards have considered the prescribed remuneration report on role and duties pursuant to the requirements pages 113 to 136. codified in the South African and the UK Investec integrated annual report 2013 89 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued 5IF GPMMPXJOH UBCMF JOEJDBUFT OPO FYFDVUJWF CPBSE SFQSFTFOUBUJPO PO UIF CPBSE DPNNJUUFFT BT BU UIF EBUF PG UIJT SFQPSU %-$ TPDJBM BOE OWFTUFD %-$ FUIJDT OEFQFO %-$ OWFTUFDJNJUFE SFNVO %-$ %-$ DPNNJU.
FNCFST EFOU BVEJU QMD BVEJU BVEJU FSBUJPO 0.
"%""$ #3$$ UFF Sir David J Prosser joint chairman Yes F Titi joint chairman Yes Chair Chair SE Abrahams Yes Chair Chair Chair GFO Alford senior independent director Yes CA Carolus Yes PKO Crosthwaite Yes OC Dickson Yes Acting chair B Fried No D Friedland Yes H Fukuda OBE Yes IR Kantor No MP Malungani No PRS Thomas Yes GFO Alford was appointed to the NOMDAC with effect from 11 September 2012 and stepped down from the BRCC with effect from 1 April 2013 and the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 31 March 2013."
D Friedland was appointed to the audit committees and the BRCC with effect from 1 March 2013.
IR Kantor was appointed to the BRCC with effect from 1 April 2013. governance principles for audit committees board of directors highlighting matters of Audit committees which the audit committee believes the as required by both the UK Corporate board should be aware.
Governance Code and King III.
External Introduction auditors from both the UK and South Africa This report to the board and shareholders, The board has approved terms are represented.
on how the audit committees have of reference for the audit discharged their duties, has been prepared committees which can be found The board recognises the important role on our website.
in accordance with sound governance of the audit committees as part of the risk principles.
management and corporate governance All responsibilities are covered in the audit processes and procedures of the Investec committees terms of reference.
In this regard the audit committees In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the have oversight of: The audit committees approve the annual board has mandated authority to Investec internal audit plan.
The heads of internal t Financial reporting risks plc audit committee and the Investec audit for both Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committee to be the audit Limited have free access to the chairman of t Internal financial risks committees for those respective companies the audit committees or any member of the and their subsidiaries with each having their 3 t Fraud and IT risks as they relate to audit committees and they attend all audit own regulatory requirements to meet.
A DLC audit committee which is the At each audit committee meeting, the combined audit committee of Investec plc Membership and attendance group chief executive officer, group and Investec Limited has responsibility All audit committee members are required managing director and group finance to the board for matters common to both to meet pre-determined skills, competency director provide an in-depth assessment of Investec plc and Investec Limited, and, in and experience requirements.
We believe their current risk related concerns and the particular, the combined group financial the audit committees have the necessary procedures introduced by management to statements and results.
expertise to discharge their responsibilities control or mitigate these risks.
In aggregate the audit The audit committees comply with all legal committees meet 12 times per year.
"and regulatory requirements as necessary Following the completion of all group audit under both UK and South African legislation committee meetings, the chairman provides and listings rules, and apply the corporate a written report to the next meeting of the 90 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued ""UUFOEBODF CZ DVSSFOU NFNCFST BU BVEJU DPNNJUUFF NFFUJOHT EVSJOH UIF OBODJBM ZFBS FOEFE."
BSDI OWFTUFD QMD BVEJU OWFTUFDJNJUFE BVEJU %-$ BVEJU DPNNJUUFF DPNNJUUFF DPNNJUUFF VNCFS PG VNCFS PG VNCFS PG VNCFS PG NFFUJOHT VNCFS PG NFFUJOHT VNCFS PG NFFUJOHT.
FNCFST NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE SE Abrahams chairman 4 4 4 4 4 4 GFO Alford 4 4 4 4 4 4 OC Dickson 4 4 4 4 4 4 D Friedland - 4 1 4 1 PRS Thomas 4 4 4 4 4 4 CB Tshili 4 4 n a n a 4 4 D Friedland was appointed to the audit committees with effect from 1 March 2013.
CB Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
t Reviewed the adjustments resulting engaged in the groups external audit Summary of conclusions were considered for the project.
from external audit queries and reached by the audit accepted the unadjusted audit committees for the year ended The board subsequently approved the differences as they were not material 31 March 2013 integrated report, including the financial t Reviewed the quality of the financial statements, which will be open for approval Following a review and meeting the reporting and disclosures at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
requirements of each of the terms of reference, the individual and combined t Received and considered reports from For each audit committee and audit audit committees, to the best of my and our the internal auditors sub-committee meeting a comprehensive knowledge and belief, are satisfied that: meeting pack is prepared with written t Reviewed and overseen the integrated reports received from the finance, internal t The finance functions of both Investec reporting process audit, operational risk, compliance and plc and its subsidiaries and Investec IT functions as well as external audit.
Limited and its subsidiaries are t Considered and approved the annual Representatives from these functions attend adequately skilled, resourced and internal audit plan the meetings by invitation and present on the experienced t Reviewed and considered significant matters included in their reports.
t The group finance director, GR Burger, representation by management on the The ow chart overleaf depicts the Investec has the appropriate expertise and going concern statement for the group group audit committees structure and experience to meet the responsibilities and recommended the adoption of the ambit of activities.
of the position going concern concept to the board.
Audit sub-committees t The groups internal financial The audit committees recommended the controls are effective and all material adoption of the integrated report to the Audit sub-committees for Investec plc weaknesses in financial control have board.
and Investec Limited, and other regulated been identied and mitigated in due subsidiaries, have been established.
In this regard the audit committees: course Reports on the risk and control environment t Considered all facts and risks that may of all business units and principal operating t The external auditors of both Investec 3 impact on the integrity of the integrated subsidiaries are made to one of the audit plc and Investec Limited are, and report sub-committees, with major issues being remain, independent escalated to the audit committees.
These t Reviewed and commented on the t The external auditors perform their allow senior managers of the business financial statements included in the functions with the appropriate expertise, units, who do not attend the main Investec integrated report competence and experience.
plc and Investec Limited audit committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control t Reviewed the disclosure of sustainability In fullling their duties, the audit committees functions and to provide input on the risk issues in the integrated report to ensure have: and control environment of the business they are reliable and do not conict with units.
Members of the Investec plc and t Reviewed and discussed the audited the financial information Investec Limited audit committees are annual financial statements with the t Engaged Grant Thornton to verify all entitled to attend these meetings and, as external auditors, the chief executive the environmental data included in a general rule, at least one non-executive officer and the finance director the report.
Neither of the audit rms director attends these meetings.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 91 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Audit committees structure Audit committees of DLC audit committees Investec plc and Investec Limited External auditors Internal auditors Finance Audit sub-committees t Planning budget t Planning budget t Accounting policies t Distil only major issues to t Conict independence t Resources t Annual financial statements audit committees t Attest and non-attest fees t Annual audit plan Half-year results Audit compliance t Reports to regulators t Adequacy of stafng Year-end results implementation forum t Management letter complement t Production of audited financial t High level reports t Quality of earnings overs and t Succession planning statements of companies and unders schedule t Charter subsidiaries Information technology t Appointment re-appointment t Execution t Accounting for one-off t Status t Reporting transactions t Major risks Compliance t Special ad hoc work t Accounting updates and t Change control t Planning budget t Review of high level reports conventions IFRS t Capacity management t Resources t Internal controls t Basel t Security and fraud awareness t High level reporting of t Sustainability report t Reconciliations t Stafng non-compliance t Regulatory reports t Projects t Monitoring of special projects Operational risk t Representation letters t Governance t Regulatory matters t Fundamental internal controls t Fraud and loss statistics Current risk review Tax t Insurance coverage t Chief executive officer t High level only t Corporate governance t Managing director SA Banks Act requirements t Financial director t Disaster recovery and business continuity t Key staff issues t The year under review has seen a Audit and compliance Key risks addressed during the significant escalation in attempted implementation forums year under review IT fraud throughout the group.
Audit and compliance implementation During the year under review, the following Considerable effort and time has been forums have been established for Investec key risks were debated at all audit devoted by management and reviewed plc and Investec Limited and their principal committee meetings: by the audit committees to ensure operating subsidiaries.
Each audit and that IT controls are robust and that t The process and procedures compliance implementation forum is the efforts of fraudsters are countered undertaken by senior management to attended by key executives and heads of aggressively review the impairment provisions and risk and control functions.
Non-executive valuation techniques adopted in arriving directors have an open invitation to attend.
t Adherence to key regulatory issues at the carrying values of financial These forums monitor and report on the facing the group via strict compliance instruments, investments, etc implementation of recommendations and the result of ongoing compliance and other matters that the relevant audit t The adequacy and appropriateness monitoring procedures committee or audit sub-committee of liquidity throughout the groups consider important.
They facilitate the t The integration of the Evolution Group 3 operations timely understanding and escalation of, and businesses into the group remained reaction to, risk and control matters that t The implementation of measures a key element of the Investec Wealth require a response from management.
taken to further enhance group IT & Investment sub-audit process.
In addition, the audit particular the Williams fide Bro business The forums are key to enhancing risk and committee has had significant acquisition and integration was carefully control consciousness and the associated inuence in ensuring that IT global monitored with most major integration control environment of the group.
The management has assessed the controls issues resolved during the year forums support and provide important over super users privileged users to insight to the audit committees.
Essentially, t Obtained feedback on the risk ensure audit trails are monitored and the forums act as a lter, enabling the audit assessment project conducted by the controlled.
One of the major risks committees to concentrate their efforts on facing all banking groups globally UK Regulator in the United Kingdom matters of appropriate materiality.
is that third parties often have during the year.
This process formerly direct access to banks computer referred to as Arrow concentrated environment on both the prudential and conduct 92 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued reviews.
Progress on dealing with the the groups annual general meetings, with DLC nominations issues raised by the regulators is being the result that I will automatically step down monitored by the audit committees as and directors affairs as chairman of the audit committees.
well as by other group risk committees committee NOMDAC In this regard David Friedland was appointed t Specic emphasis has continued to as a non-executive director of the board Introduction be placed on processes around the on 1 March 2013 and the board has Companies Act in South Africa resolved that David Friedland succeed This report to the board and shareholders, me as chairman of the audit committees on how the NOMDAC has discharged its t Assessing the internal control when I step down from that role on duties, has been prepared in accordance weaknesses identied by the assurance 8 August 2013.
David retired as a senior with sound governance principles.
providers and ensuring appropriate partner of one of the major international steps taken within prescribed and audit rms on 28 February 2013.
David Background specified time limits to mitigate and has extensive audit experience of listed The NOMDAC has combined the duties of remedy such weaknesses.
companies across a broad range of sectors.
a nominations committee as well as that of We have commenced the process of With the assistance of Internal Audit, a directors affairs committee as required handover to David.
I have given assurance assisted by Operational Risk, we have under section 64B of the South African to the board that I will make myself available received written combined assurance Banks Act.
for as long as David needs me to provide from the entire DLC group comprising all the necessary guidance and training.
I wish business units and assurance providers as Major operating subsidiaries in the David all the best in this critical role, but have well as support functions.
group are exempt from having their own no doubt that he is up to the challenge and nominations or directors affairs committee, I have also met with representatives of is suitably skilled and experienced to take up as the NOMDAC fulls the duties for these various shareholder representative bodies the role.
"The NOMDAC complies with all legal and After serving as a non-executive director for regulatory requirements as necessary under 15 years and chairman of the groups audit both UK and South African legislation and committees for eight years, I have advised 4BN ""CSBIBNT listings rules and corporate governance my fellow board members that it is my Chairman, audit committees principles."
intention not to seek re-election to the board with effect from 8 August 2013, the date of 11 June 2013 The board has approved terms of reference for the NOMDAC which can be found on our DLC remuneration committee website.
The report by the acting chairman of the DLC remuneration committee, Role and responsibilities including a summary of the roles and responsibilities, is set out in the remuneration report on pages 113 to 115.
The NOMDAC is responsible for, among other things: Membership and attendance t Identifying and nominating the approval Attendance by members at remuneration committee meetings: of board candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise VNCFS PG VNCFS PG NFFUJOHT IFME NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE t Determining and evaluating.
FNCFST EVSJOH UIF ZFBS EVSJOH UIF ZFBS the adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of the corporate OC Dickson acting chairperson 13 13 governance structure and practices of GFO Alford 13 13 the group 3 PKO Crosthwaite 13 11 t Establishing and maintaining a board Sir David J Prosser 13 13 directorship continuity programme GFO Alford resigned from the committee with effect from 31 March 2013. t Regularly reviewing the structure, F Titi attends all meetings as a permanent invitee.
George Alford has stepped down as size and composition including the chairman of the DLC remuneration committee, with effect 31 March 2013, and Olivia skills, knowledge and experience of Dickson was appointed as acting chairman in his place for a period of six months.
Bradley the boards and board committees Fried was appointed as a member of the committee effective from 3 April 2013.
Although compared with their current situations Bradley is not considered to be independent as he was employed as Investec Bank plc and making recommendations to the CEO, Bradleys knowledge and experience of the company is deemed to be beneficial to boards regarding any changes the workings of this committee and is believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Investec integrated annual report 2013 93 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued t Reviewing the succession plan of the key positions in Investec Limited and Investec management setting out succession plc and all their major subsidiaries, in order to ensure that an updated management plans in respect of executive succession plan remains in place.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Governance t Impact of the new South African Companies Act of 2008, as amended, on matters relating to corporate Membership and attendance governance Attendance by current members at NOMDAC meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2013: t The committee considered changes to the UK Corporate Governance VNCFS PG VNCFS PG Code and related governance NFFUJOHT IFME NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE developments including the Financial.
FNCFST EVSJOH UIF ZFBS EVSJOH UIF ZFBS Reporting Councils guidance on board effectiveness F Titi chairman 4 4 SE Abrahams 4 4 t The committee monitors the induction Sir David J Prosser 4 4 programme of new directors KXT Socikwa 4 4 t The committee ensures that the PRS Thomas 4 4 directors ongoing training and GFO Alford 4 3 development programme remains relevant and appropriate KXT Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
t The committee considered the GFO Alford was appointed to the committee as a member on 11 September 2012. independent status of board members and made recommendations to the board part of that diversity and currently, the Summary of conclusions t The committee reviewed the expertise board comprises three women reached and key of the company secretaries and made recommendations made to the t While non-executive appointments are recommendations to the board.
board during the year under based on merit and overall suitability for Board effectiveness review the role, the NOMDAC will be mindful of the value of diversity as it progresses t The committee worked closely with Board composition the structured refreshment programme the joint chairmen to commission an t Reviewed the structure, size and described above independent board effectiveness review, composition of the board and subsidiary the outcomes of that review were boards and the principal board t The committee has recommended to considered by the committee.
committees and has carefully reviewed the board that going forward, nonthe balance of independent nonexecutive appointments are made executives relating to executive directors for an expected period of nine years from the date the director was first 'BOJ 5JUJ t The committee considered that it was appointed.
Chairman, DLC nominations and directors appropriate to increase the number of affairs committee independent non-executive directors Succession on the board while ensuring that t The appointment of David Friedland 11 June 2013 there is a sufficient number of nonas an independent non-executive executive directors with experience and 3 director effective 1 March 2013 and knowledge of the business successor to Sam Abrahams as chair DLC social and ethics of the audit committees effective t Accordingly, the committee committee SEC 8 August 2013 was the culmination recommended an active programme of of a process to identify an appropriate refreshing the board Introduction successor to the chairman of the audit t The committee discussed the committees This report to the board and shareholders, implications of Lord Davies Review on how the SEC has discharged its duties, t The committee considered a successor Women on Boards: March 2011 has been prepared in accordance with to George Alford as chairman of the sound governance principles.
t The board acknowledges the value to DLC remuneration committee be derived from bringing together on the Background board individuals with a broad range of t Executive management structure and backgrounds, experience and outlook.
succession planning: the committee The SEC is mandated by the board to Gender is recognised to be an important received detailed presentations from be the social and ethics committee of 94 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Investec plc and Investec Limited and their t Social and economic development Transformation subsidiaries.
The South African Companies t The committee monitors Investec t Good corporate citizenship Act 2008, as amended the Act, provides Limiteds empowerment rating and that all listed public companies must discusses with management how to t Monitoring Investec Limited and its establish a social and ethics committee.
subsidiaries activities, with regard to The Act enables the group to appoint a matters relating to: Sustainability social and ethics committee for the holding The Employment Equity Act company, which will full the required t The committee receives regular, The Broad-Based Black Economic functions on behalf of the subsidiary detailed reports on all matters relating Empowerment Act companies.
Due to the required functions to sustainability of the committee which are universal in Contribution to development of the t The committee monitors the groups nature, the board resolved to constitute the communities in which its activities initiatives to reduce the carbon footprint.
committee to monitor the activities for the are predominantly conducted group and not just Investec Limited.
or within which its products Conservation and services are predominantly t The committee receives presentations Role and responsibilities marketed.
about the groups initiatives around The DLC SEC is responsible to monitor conservation.
The committees terms of the groups activities, having regard to any reference are available on our relevant legislation, other legal requirements website.
or prevailing codes of best practice, with 'BOJ 5JUJ regard to matters relating to: Chairman, DLC social and ethics committee 11 June 2013 Membership and attendance Attendance by current members at SEC meetings during the financial year ended DLC board risk and 31 March 2013: capital committee VNCFS PG VNCFS PG NFFUJOHT IFME NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE BRCC.
FNCFST EVSJOH UIF ZFBS EVSJOH UIF ZFBS Introduction F Titi chairman 4 4 This report to the board and shareholders, S Koseff 4 4 on how the BRCC has discharged its B Kantor 4 3 duties, has been prepared in accordance CA Carolus 4 4 with sound governance principles.
PRS Thomas 4 4 Background The BRCC is the appointed board t The committee received a presentation committee to meet the requirements of Summary of monitoring the UK and SA regulators for the board of on the developments under the UK activities during the year under directors of a bank.
Corporate Governance Code regarding review diversity.
The purpose of the BRCC is to determine, Employment equity under delegated authority from and as a Skills development t The committee monitored the process sub-committee of the board, the categories t The committee monitors the various of preparing and submitting Investec of risk, specic risk and the extent of such learning and leadership programmes on Limiteds Employment Equity Plan risks which the group on consolidated offer by the group 3 basis, and its banks on a solo basis, should t The committee engages with the undertake.
t The committee monitors the groups management of Human Resources spend on skills development and to discuss challenges around matters Role and responsibilities discusses initiatives with Human such as diversity and employment Resources in this regard.
The committee will ensure that: equity targets Corporate social investment CSI t All decisions of the board on risk t The committee engages with members management policies and procedures t The committee receives regular reports of the employment equity forum are implemented and monitored on the groups CSI initiatives and the throughout Investec t The committee receives regular reports CSI strategy and spend.
from human resources to measure t The risk management structure is progress against employment equity adequate, with sufficient resources and targets budget, and exceptions are reported to the board Investec integrated annual report 2013 95 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued t Exposure limits for market, counterparty provides the expertise, processes and Executive risk review and credit risk are ratied: liquidity and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
forum ERRF operational risk are also monitored t There is an ongoing process of risk and A number of committees are dedicated to The ERRF is mandated by the BRCC to aspects of risk management and report control identication, particularly for any be the ERRF of Investec plc and Investec directly to the board and the BRCC.
These changes to business objectives and the Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards include the DLC capital committee, ERRF, enterprise-wide risk and its measurement, basis of measuring risk asset and liability committees, group monitoring and mitigation.
t There is sufficient capital in relation credit committees, group market risk The purpose of the ERRF is to supplement to existing and potential risks to the forum, group deal forum, operational risk the BRCC.
It assists in determining the organisation.
committees forums and group legal risk categories of risk, the specic risks and the forum.
The BRCC defines the processes by which extent of such risks which the group should internal financial control, risk and capital The committees terms of undertake.
management are assumed and monitored.
reference are available on Role and responsibilities The Group Risk Management division our website.
The ERRF: Membership and attendance t Evaluates the most significant risks Investec faces in the ordinary course of Attendance by current members at BRCC meetings during the financial year ended business 31 March 2013 t Reviews the risk models including, VNCFS PG VNCFS PG but not limited to, credit models which NFFUJOHT IFME NFFUJOHT BUUFOEFE need to be incorporated appropriately EVSJOH UIF ZFBS EVSJOH UIF ZFBS into the allocation of capital Executive directors t Ensures that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to S Koseff chairman 6 6 mitigate risk are implemented B Kantor managing director 6 5 t Acts as agent of the board to ensure GR Burger group risk and finance director 6 6 that all decisions of the board on risk Non-executive directors management policies and procedures Sir David J Prosser 6 6 are implemented and monitored throughout the group F Titi 6 5 SE Abrahams 6 6 t Ensures the group-wide risk GFO Alford 6 4 management structure is adequately B Fried 6 5 resourced and has an appropriate budget D Friedland 6 1 H Fukuda OBE 6 6 t Provides regular reports to the board MP Malungani 6 3 focusing on effectiveness of the control framework KXT Socikwa 6 3 PRS Thomas 6 5 t Provides regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements D Friedland was appointed to the committee on appointment to the boards on and advises on how changes to 1 March 2013 regulatory requirements will affect us Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of 3 Investec Limited, and represents its interests on this committee.
t Ensures that there is an ongoing IR Kantor was appointed to the BRCC and GFO Alford stepped down from the BRCC process of risk and control with effect from 1 April 2013. identication, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
such as the commencement of a new Material incidents and losses and significant breaches of systems and controls are reported trading area or product stream.
to the BRCC as well as the audit committees.
Meetings take place every Monday except on the BRCC dates.
For more information on the groups risk management processes, please refer to volume two.
96 Investec integrated annual report 2013 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued for identifying risks and implementing as Directive 6 2008 of the South African DLC capital committee appropriate mitigation processes and Banks Act, were adhered to during the year controls within their businesses.
The DLC capital committee is mandated independent group risk management by the BRCC to be the capital committee Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of functions, accountable to the board, are of Investec plc and Investec Limited an agreed policy which states that: responsible for establishing, reviewing and and their subsidiaries, as regards capital monitoring the process of risk management.
allocation and structuring, performance t External audit rms will have internal Group Risk Management reports regularly to measurement, investment decisions and standards and processes to monitor the BRCC and the ERRF.
and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the audit Risk management is discussed in more Role and responsibilities committees on an annual basis.
These detail in volume two.
The DLC capital committee is responsible will be considered based on the explicit for: exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines Internal audit t Determining the DLC groups capital requirements t Safeguards must be in place to ensure Each significant jurisdiction has an internal that there is no threat to the objectivity audit presence that is appropriate for t Reviewing capital adequacy and independence in the conduct of the size, nature and extent of business submissions to be made to regulators the audit, resulting from the provision conducted.
Smaller geographies are of non-audit services by the external t Considering the ongoing requirements supported by the Internal Audit teams of the auditors.
and consequences of Basel III and Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
other regulatory requirements and Total audit fees paid to all auditors for A risk-based audit approach is followed and their impacts on regulatory capital the year ended were 15.1 million the audit committee approves annual audit requirements 2012: 13.1 million, of which 3.0 million plans.
2012: 3.0 million related to the provision t Reviewing the risk models which need Heads of internal audit report to the of non-audit services.
to be incorporated appropriately into chairmen of the relevant audit committees the allocation of capital and to the head of corporate governance For further details on non-audit t Considering, determining and and compliance.
services see note 6 on page 44 approving capital issues relating to any in volume three.
corporate structuring for acquisitions For further details on the internal audit function, see page 98 in t Monitoring the capital positions and volume two.
Compliance returns on internal capital of each business unit The compliance function ensures that t Submission of capital Investec continuously complies with existing External audit recommendations to the BRCC.
and emerging regulation impacting on its Investecs external auditors are Ernst & operations.
We recognise our responsibility Meetings take place at least quarterly.
Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc. at a to conduct business in accordance with the DLC level.
Ernst & Young Inc. and KPMG laws and regulations in the countries and Inc. are joint auditors of the Investec Limited areas in which we operate.
The compliance silo and Ernst & Young LLP are the auditors function is supported by Group Compliance 4UFQIFO, PTFGG of the Investec plc silo.
The independence and compliance ofcers in the business Chairman: Board risk and capital of the external auditors is reviewed by the units.
committee, Executive risk review forum, audit committees each year.
DLC capital committee For further details on the The audit committees meet with the external compliance function, see 11 June 2013 3 auditors to review the scope of the external pages 99 and 100 in volume two.
audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit services rendered and all other audit matters.
Risk management The external auditors are invited to attend Regulation and The board is responsible for the total audit committee meetings and have access process of risk management and the to the chairman of each audit committee.
supervision systems of internal control.
A number Recommendations on the rotation of Investec is subject to external regulation of committees and forums assist in this auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing regard.
Senior management is responsible Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well and supervision by various supervisory Investec integrated annual report 2013 97 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued authorities in each of the jurisdictions in The UK and South African Companies which we operate, the main ones being the Acts require directors to disclose any direct UK Prudential Regulation Authority and the or indirect material interest they have in Financial Conduct Authority, the Banking contracts, including proposed contracts, Supervision Department BSD of the South which are of signicance to the companys African Reserve Bank SARB, and the business.
Directors are required to make Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority these disclosures at board meetings, and APRA.
Some of our businesses are all disclosures made are recorded in the subject to supervision by the South African minutes of that meeting.
Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
Values and code of The SARB is the lead supervisor of the conduct combined Investec group, comprising We have a strong organisational culture Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB of entrenched values, which forms the is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while cornerstone of our behaviour towards all the UK regulators supervise Investec plc.
These values are embodied in We strive to establish and maintain open a written statement of values, which serves and active dialogue with regulators and as our code of ethics, and is continually supervisors.
Processes are in place to reinforced.
respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report regularly to We view all employees as the custodians regulators and supervisory bodies.
Where of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced appropriate, we participate in industry through internal processes, policies and committees and discussion groups to procedures.
As such all new employees maintain and enhance the regulatory are invited, and are strongly encouraged, environment in which we operate.
to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures Dealings in securities are explained and discussed.
Dealings in securities are subject to the Our organisation development team personal account dealing policy that has plays an important role in facilitating the been in operation for a number of years.
understanding and ongoing practice of The policy is based on regulatory guidance our values, philosophies and culture.
In and industry practice and is updated addition to our values, acceptable business to ensure compliance with applicable practices are communicated through the regulations and industry good practice.
Human Resources practices manual, available on the intranet.
The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlights the Approved and authorised for issue by the potential conicts of interest between the board of directors on 11 June 2013 and interests of employees and the Investec signed on its behalf by: group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
The UKs disclosure and transparency rules require us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities %BWJE.
JMMFS #FOJUB $PFUTFF by all persons discharging management Company secretary Company secretary 3 responsibilities and their connected Investec plc Investec Limited persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
