Report of the Audit Committee The Board places a very high priority on the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the quality and transparency of its financial reporting and the effectiveness of IP Groups risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight and governance of these critical areas.
Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee responsibilities Committee membership Risk and internal controls The Committee monitors the integrity The Committee comprises three The key elements of the Groups internal of the financial statements of the Group, independent Non-executive Directors.
control framework and procedures are and reviews all proposed annual and halfThe Committee met four times during the set out on pages 32 and 33.
The principal yearly results announcements to be made year.
The CEO, CFO, Financial Controller, risks the Group faces are set out on pages by the Group with consideration being other members of management and 34 to 37.
Annually, the Audit Committee given to any significant financial reporting the external auditor attend meetings by considers the Group risk register judgements contained in them.
As the Chair of the Committee, and related management controls.
I am deemed by the Board tohave recent Throughout the process the Board or the The Committee also advises the Board and relevant financial experience being Audit Committee: on whether it believes the annual report a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Gives consideration to whether areas Management Accountants and having balanced and understandable and provides should be looked at more closely held senior financial positions in my the information necessary for shareholders through internal audit or specific career.
In 2013, Mike Humphrey, Senior to assess the Companys performance, control reviews: Independent Director, and Francis business model and strategy.
Identifies areas where enhancement Carpenter were the other two members.
of internal controls is required: and The Committee also considers internal The Committee meets at least twice controls, compliance with legal Agrees action plans to deliver per annum with the auditor without any requirements, accounting standards and the necessary or recommended members of the executive management the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency enhancements.
I also meet with the Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, external auditor a few times during the There is a formal whistleblowing and also reviews any proposed year away from the Companys offices.
policy which has been communicated change in accounting policies and any to employees.
This policy provides recommendations from the Groups Activities during the year information on the process to follow auditor regarding improvements to The main activities of the Committee in the event that anyemployee feels internal controls and the adequacy of during 2013 can be seen by referring it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
resources within the Groups finance to the summary agenda items on page TheAudit Committee is satisfied that function.
In addition to its normal cycle of the policy provides anadequate basis activities, the Committee undertook three A full copy of the Committees Terms of for employees to make representations additional activities in 2013.
These were Reference, which were updated in early inconfidence to the Group and the improvement of governance around 2013 following an evaluation process, is for appropriate and proportionate investment and divestment policies, available from the Companys website at investigations.
whistleblowing, and a review of FCA www.
compliance: secondly a review of the Valuation of assets and liabilities Groups cyber-security policies in the light The Audit Committee discusses of the BIS initiative: and thirdly, following with management and the auditor the current audit partners completion of the approach that has been taken his 5 year term in 2013, the Committees in assessing all key estimates.
These decision to tender the 2014 audit and the include the carrying value of intangible subsequent tender process.
assets, provisions for impairment of intangible assets and the taxation status of the Group.
Given the nature of the Companys business, this remains an extremely important element of the annual audit.
com 71 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Committee Reports Report of the Audit Committee continued Annually, the Committee considers the going concern principle on which Audit committee meeting dates 2013 the financial statements are prepared and summary agendas and also considers and approves the impairment review of goodwill prepared February August by management.
Full year financial statements and Half year financial statements and Internal audit discussion with auditor review with auditor The Group does not maintain a separate Audit committee effectiveness Tendering the 2014 audit process internal audit function.
This is principally review Review of anti-bribery policy and due to the size of the Group where close Going concern review procedures control over operations is exercised by Consideration of the need for a Cyber-security a small number of Executive Directors.
formal internal audit function The Audit Committee currently considers Review of risk register October the outsourced provision of internal Review of auditors 2013 audit planning audit work as both more efficient and May document cost-effective than having its own central Auditor effectiveness review Audit committees terms of reference: internal audit team.
However, the Audit annual review Planning of internal audit projects Committee does review the need to have Whistleblowing policy: annual review its own separate internal audit function External review of FCA of process authorised business each year.
Investment and divestment policy: Review of mobile device security annual review The Audit Committee has developed Review of MLRO Compliance officer Development of a related party a framework to gain assurance over reports from regulated investment transaction policy the system of internal financial and business Risk Review update operational controls.
This comprises: A risk assessment performed by operational management and the Board to identify key areas for External audit Appointment and Independence assurance.
The effectiveness of the external audit The Audit Committee advises the Board An annual assessment by the Audit process is dependent on appropriate risk on the appointment of the external Committee of the whole system of identification.
In October, the Committee auditor and on its remuneration both for internal financial and operational discussed the auditors audit plan for audit and non-audit work and discusses controls.
This included a summary of the the nature, scope and results of the audit proposed audit scope and a summary with the external auditor.
The Committee The Audit Committee considers that a of what the auditor considered to be keeps under review the cost-effectiveness key area of risk in the business lies in the the most significant financial reporting and the independence and objectivity investment and divestment policies of risks facing the Group together with of the external auditor.
Controls in place the Group and during 2013 undertook a the auditors proposed audit approach to ensure this include monitoring the review of these processes.
to these significant risk areas.
The main independence and effectiveness of the areas of audit focus for the year were the audit, implementing apolicy on the carrying value of the Oxford University engagement of the external auditor to Equity Rights asset, a review of the supply non-audit services, and a review carrying values of the Groups equity of the scope of the audit and fee and and debt investments in its portfolio performance of the external auditor.
companies with particular focus on unquoted companies, including Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited and the continued eligibility of the Group for Substantial Shareholder Exemption SSE relief.
These were the principal areas of financial reporting risk for the Group in 2013.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 72 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Committee Reports Non-Audit Work Auditor Effectiveness The Audit Committee approves all fees During the year, the Committee assessed paid to the auditor for non-audit work.
the effectiveness of the external auditor, During the year the auditor didperform BDO LLP.
This assessment was based some non-audit work which mainly upon a number of factors including consisted of tax compliance work for reviewing the quality and scope of subsidiaries of the Group, as well some the planning of the audit, individual other statutory filing work.
questionnaire feedback from key members of the Groups finance team The Group does engage other and discussions between the Committee independent firms of accountants to members.
The overall conclusion was perform tax consulting work and other that the audit process was effective.
consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditor is not Audit Tender Process compromised.
For example, during 2013, Following informal meetings with six external advisers were used to advise major accounting firms in the latter part on certain matters of taxation as well as of 2013 and early 2014, the Committee on aspects of the Groups remuneration decided to invite three firms to tender policies.
An analysis of non-audit fees for the Groups 2014 audit.
A Request is provided in note 6 to the financial for Proposal RFP was recently issued, statements.
requiring each firm to submit its proposals against a number of criteria including Auditor Independence audit approach and delivery, audit A formal statement of independence is quality assurance, the engagement team received from the auditor eachyear and proposed and proposed fees and terms.
audit partners are rotated every five years.
Each firm will be allowed meetings with The Board and the Audit Committee are the senior management of the Group and satisfied that the independence of the it is anticipated that each firm will present auditor, originally appointed in 2002, has to the Audit Committee by early April.
However, since the Following the outcome of this process, current audit partner was in his fifth year, the Committee intends to appoint the the Audit Committee decided in August selected firm to carry out the Groups 2013 that it would put out the 2014 audit with effect from 2014, including audit for tender and engaged in a tender providing a review opinion on the Groups process in March 2014. half-yearly results to 30 June 2014.
Subsequent to the 2013 year end, The Audit Committee currently intends our auditors, BDO LLP, also invoiced to recommend to the Board a resolution 150,000 for financial and tax due to shareholders to appoint the successful diligence in association with the 100m firm at the AGM to be held on 13 May equity capital raising and acquisition 2014. of Fusion IP plc by the Group.
Before awarding this work we consulted with I will be available at the AGM to answer two other firms of accountants and any questions about the Committees we obtained other estimates of fees.
Following discussions with our auditors to ensure that appropriate safeguards Jonathan Brooks were in place and would be implemented Chairman of the Audit Committee in accordance with Ethical Standards, I 3 March 2014 agreed that the work should be awarded to BDO LLP.
com 73 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Committee Reports
