Corporate Governance A successful year: addressing Board diversity Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2013 has been a year of strong performance The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate governance and for IP Group which has been reflected in to compliance with the best practice of a significant increase in the value of the the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which was issued by the Financial Groups portfolio and its net assets.
Reporting Council in 2010 and revised The Board remains focused on the execution of in September 2012.
During the twelve months ended 31 December 2013, the the Groups strategy, working with its partners to Directors consider that the Company has develop outstanding intellectual property-based been in compliance with the provisions businesses, and, in doing so, it continues to recognise set out in the Code with the following the importance of a strong focus on corporate exception: the requirement under the Code Section B.
1.2 for at least half governance.
Corporate governance at IP Group is the Board, excluding the Chairman, to more than just compliance with rules and regulations.
comprise Non-executive Directors was It is an integral part of all of our activities, especially not met during the year.
The Nomination Committee has met on a number of those of the Board and its committees.
occasions throughout the year to debate During 2013 and in early 2014, the Board has seen a number this specific issue, amongst others, one of changes to its composition and I am pleased to report that, of the outcomes of which has led to the following Professor Lynn Gladdens recent appointment, we are appointment of Professor Lynn Gladden now compliant with the provisions of the Code.
Professor Gladdens as an additional independent Nonappointment strengthens the Boards diversity amongst a range executive Director with effect from 26 March 2014.
The Company will of measures and her knowledge of both science and business is accordingly be compliant with Section highly relevant to the IP Group model and will be of huge value B.
1.2 of the Code with effect from to the Group as we continue to expand and grow.
planning, both at Board level and in other key areas of the business, will continue to remain an area of focus for the Board as we move Further explanation as to how the through 2014. provisions set out in the Code have been applied by the Company is set The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for out in the following statement, the good governance and this report, together with the Reports of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees of the Board Committee Report and the Strategic describes our detailed approach to corporate governance and Report.
The Companys auditor, BDO further information on the key developments in these areas during LLP, is required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys the year.
compliance with the provisions of the I look forward to being able to discuss these matters with our Code specified for its review by the shareholders at the Groups forthcoming AGM or indeed at any other Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such point during the year.
compliance: no such report has been Dr Bruce Smith Chairman made.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 40 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview Nomination Committee Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee The Board Role and responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Group Chief as a whole, providing entrepreneurial Executive leadership within a framework of controls for assessing and managing risk: defining, challenging and interrogating the Groups strategic aims and direction: maintaining the policy and decisionmaking framework in which such strategic aims are implemented: ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet strategic Senior aims: monitoring performance against Management Team key financial and non-financial indicators: succession planning: overseeing the system of risk management: setting values and standards in governance matters and monitoring policies and performance on corporate social responsibility.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that obligations themselves on the integrity of financial Except for a formal schedule of matters to shareholders and other stakeholders information and that financial controls which are reserved for decision and are understood and met and a satisfactory and systems of risk management are approval by the Board, the Board has dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
delegated the day-to-day management All directors are equally accountable of the Group to the Chief Executive The Board reviews strategic issues on to the Companys shareholders for the Officer who is supported by the Executive a regular basis and exercises control proper stewardship of its affairs and the Directors and other members of the over the performance of the Group long-term success of the Group.
The schedule by agreeing budgetary targets and of matters reserved for Board decision The responsibility of the directors monitoring performance against and approval are those significant to the is collective, taking into account those targets.
The Board has overall Group as a whole due to their strategic, their respective roles as Executive responsibility for the Groups system of financial or reputational implications.
Directors and Non-executive internal controls and risk management, This schedule is reviewed and updated Directors.
The Executive Directors as described on pages 32 to 37.
Any regularly and currently includes those are directly responsible for running decisions made by the Board on policies matters set out in the box overleaf.
the business operations and the Nonand strategy to be adopted by the Group executive Directors are responsible for or changes to current policies and constructively challenging proposals on strategy are made following presentations strategy, scrutinising the performance by the Executive Directors and a detailed of management, determining levels process of review and challenge by of remuneration and for succession the Board.
Once made, the Executive planning for the Executive Directors.
The Directors are fully empowered to Non-executive Directors must also satisfy implement those decisions.
com 41 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview Corporate Governance continued Matters Reserved Include: Available from the Company for the Board Approval of the annual report, half-year results statement and the Secretary or on our quarterly interim management statements, accounting policies and Corporate Website procedures or any matter having a material impact on future financial www.
com performance of the Group.
Strategic acquisitions by the Group.
Major portfolio capital allocation decisions, being those in excess of 2.5m per investment.
The entry into by the Group of strategic partnerships and collaborations with universities and other research institutions.
Major disposals from the Groups portfolio.
Approval and monitoring of the Groups strategic plans and approval of the annual budget.
Considering and, where appropriate, approving directors conflicts of interest.
Approving Board appointments and removals and approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
Approval of terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Approval, subject to shareholder approval, of the appointment and remuneration of the auditors.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued to shareholders governed by the FCAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Rules or Transparency Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Changes to the Groups capital structure, the issue of any securities and material borrowing of the Group.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
Major changes in employee share schemes.
Board Committees The terms of reference of each Committee establish its responsibilities.
Available from the Company Secretary or on our Corporate Website www.
com Executive Directors Day-to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive Directors and and Management management via established procedures for approving decisions within Team business functions.
The Board delegates specific the Group.
Each committee has its own 2013.
These will be reviewed annually responsibilities to certain committees terms of reference which set out the on an ongoing basis and updated where that assist the Board in carrying out specific matters for which delegated necessary.
All of these are available on its functions and ensure independent authority has been given by the Board.
request from the Company Secretary oversight of internal control and risk New terms of reference for each of the or within the Corporate Governance management.
The three principal Board committees which are fully compliant section of the Groups website at committees Audit, Remuneration and with the provisions of the Code and www.
Nomination play an essential role which reflect both best practice and in supporting the Board in fulfilling the recommendations arising from the its responsibilities and ensuring that external evaluation process undergone the highest standards of corporate by the Board and its committees in early governance are maintained throughout 2013 were adopted by the Board during IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 42 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview for re-election by the shareholders at Board size and composition Diversity the Companys Annual General Meeting As at 31 December 2013, there were eight The Board is committed to a culture following their first appointment and Directors on the Board: the Chairman, that attracts and retains talented people thereafter at each Annual General four Executive Directors and three to deliver outstanding performance Non-executive Directors.
Professor Lynn Meeting in respect of which they have and further enhance the success of the Gladden was appointed as an additional held office for the two preceding Annual Company.
In that culture, diversity across General Meetings and did not retire independent Non-Executive Director a range of criteria is valued, primarily at either of them.
In addition, each with effect from 26 March 2014.
The in relation to skills, knowledge and director who has held office with the biographies of all of these directors are experience and also in other criteria such Company for a continuous period of provided on pages 38 and 39.
During as gender and ethnicity.
The Company nine years or more must retire and offer the year, Dr Alison Fielding and Professor will give careful consideration to issues Graham Richards stepped down from themselves up for re-election at every of overall Board balance and diversity in Annual General Meeting.
However, in the Board, in the case of Alison Fielding making new appointments to the Board accordance with the Code, all directors for personal reasons and in the case of and, in identifying suitable candidates, other than Professor Lynn Gladden who Professor Graham Richards because the Nomination Committee will seek has been appointed since the last general of the length of his tenure as a Noncandidates from different genders and meeting of the Company held on 12 executive Director meant that he was no a range of backgrounds, with the final February 2014 will submit themselves longer regarded as independent from decision being based on merit against a governance perspective.
Both have for annual re-election by shareholders objective criteria.
The Company has one at the Annual General Meeting of the remained with the Group on a partfemale director on its Board and will aim Company to be held on 13 May 2014 the time basis in roles which has enabled to maintain female representation on 2014 AGM.
The Board recommends the Group to continue to leverage their the Board at least at this current level to shareholders the reappointment of significant expertise.
and give due consideration to increasing all directors retiring at the meeting and the level if appropriate candidates are The Companys policy relating to offering themselves for re-election on the available when Board vacancies arise.
In the terms of appointment and the basis that the independent performance addition, the revised terms of reference remuneration of both Executive and reviews demonstrated that they are all of the Nomination Committee which Non-executive Directors is detailed in effective directors of the Company and were adopted during the year include the Directors Remuneration Report on continue to display the appropriate level a requirement for the Committee to pages 53 to 70. of commitment in their respective roles.
consider diversity, including gender, in New directors may be appointed by the The size and composition of the Board evaluating the composition of the Board Board, but their appointment is subject and in identifying suitable candidates for is regularly reviewed by the Board, and in to election by shareholders at the first Board appointments.
A breakdown of particular the Nomination Committee, to opportunity after their appointment as employee diversity showing the number ensure there is an appropriate and diverse is the case with Professor Lynn Gladden mix of skills and experience on the Board.
of persons who were Directors of the who will seek election at the 2014 AGM.
Company and senior managers at the The Companys Articles of Association date of this report can be found on require all directors to submit themselves page 52.
Board composition Board tenure As at date of report including unconditional appointments Executive Non-Executive 0-5 years 5-10 years 4 5 5 3 Male Female 10 years 8 1 1 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 43 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview Corporate Governance continued Non-executive Directors are required Non-executive Directors Senior Independent Director to obtain the approval of the The Non-executive Directors provide Mike Humphrey was the Senior Chairman before taking on any further a wide range of skills and experience Independent Director throughout appointments and the Chairman requires to the Group.
A key responsibility of the Senior the approval of the Board before adding senior level of experience in each of Independent Director is to be available to to his commitments.
In all cases, the their own fields, robust opinions and an shareholders in the event that they may directors must ensure that their external independent judgement on issues of feel it inappropriate to relay views through appointments do not involve excessive strategy, performance, risk and people the Chairman or Chief Executive.
In time commitment or cause a conflict of through their contribution and are well addition, the Senior Independent Director interest.
placed to constructively challenge serves as an intermediary between the and scrutinise the performance of rest of the Board and the Chairman The roles of Chairman and management at Board and Committee where necessary and takes the lead Chief Executive meetings.
The Code sets out the when the Non-executive Directors assess Bruce Smith is the Chairman.
The circumstances that should be relevant to the Chairmans performance and when division of responsibilities between the the Board in determining whether each the appointment of a new Chairman Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director is independent.
Further, the Senior is clearly established, set out in writing The Board considers Non-executive Independent Director will lead the Board and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman Director independence on an annual in their deliberations on any matters on is responsible for the leadership and basis as part of each Non-executive which the Chairman is conflicted.
conduct of the Board, the conduct of Directors performance evaluation.
the Groups affairs and strategy and for Board support Having undertaken this review and with ensuring effective communication with The Company Secretary is responsible to due regard to provision B.
The Chairman facilitates the Board for ensuring Board procedures Code, the Board has concluded this year the full and effective contribution of are followed, applicable rules and that all of the Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors at Board and regulations are complied with and that are considered by the Board to be Committee meetings, ensures that they the Board is advised on governance independent of management and free of are kept well informed and ensures a matters and relevant regulatory any relationship or circumstance which constructive relationship between the matters.
All directors have access to could materially influence or interfere Executive Directors and Non-executive the impartial advice and services of the with, or affect, or appear to affect, the Directors.
The Chairman also ensures Company Secretary.
There is also an exercise of their independent judgement.
that the membership of the Board is agreed procedure for directors to take appropriate to the needs of the business In a limited number of cases, the independent professional advice at the and that the Board committees carry Chairman has, in the past, made Companys expense.
In accordance with out their duties, including reporting back fide minimis investments in spin-out the Companys Articles of Association, to the Board either orally or in writing companies formed under the Groups directors have been granted an indemnity following their meetings at the next Board university partnerships.
Such investments issued by the Company to the extent meeting, depending on its proximity to were made on arms length terms, permitted by law in respect of liabilities the meeting of the relevant committee.
on comparable terms to other third incurred as a result of their office.
party angel investors participating in The indemnity would not provide any The role of the Chief Executive is to the same financing rounds and always coverage where a director is proved to lead the delivery of the strategy and the represented minority participations have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
executive management of the Group in the relevant financing rounds.
The The Company has also arranged and its operating businesses.
He is Board does not therefore consider that appropriate insurance cover in respect responsible, amongst other things, for such legacy personal investments act of legal action against its directors and the development and implementation in any way to influence the Chairmans officers.
of strategy and processes which enable oversight of the Board.
In any event, all the Group to meet the requirements Board meetings and decisions of the Chairmans potential conflicts of of shareholders, for delivering the The Board meets regularly during the interest are disclosed at the beginning operating plans and budgets for the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as of each Board meeting and he may be Groups businesses, monitoring business required by business need.
The Board required by the Board to abstain from performance against key performance had seven scheduled Board meetings the deliberations by the Board and or indicators KPIs and reporting on these in 2013.
In addition to these scheduled voting on a particular matter.
Details of to the Board and for providing the Board meetings, the Board also had a day these investments are set out in note 24 appropriate environment to recruit, together in July 2013 devoted entirely to to the financial statements.
The Boards engage, retain and develop the high the Groups strategic objectives, which policy prohibits personal investments by quality personnel needed to deliver the provided an opportunity for all Directors the Non-executive Directors in any of the Groups strategy.
and particularly the Non-executive Groups portfolio companies, whether Directors to ensure the Groups strategy new or existing.
is on course, to discuss medium and IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 44 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview longer term strategic objectives and The schedule of Board and Committee Chief Financial Officer and Company the key drivers underpinning these, to meetings each year is, so far as is Secretary work together to ensure that review the Groups KPIs and to analyse possible, determined before the the Directors receive relevant information and challenge its objectives.
Further, in commencement of that year and all to enable them to discharge their duties connection with the proposed acquisition Directors or, if appropriate, all Committee and that such information is accurate, of Fusion IP plc and the Groups 100m members are expected to attend each timely and clear.
This information capital raising, three conference calls of meeting.
Supplementary meetings of the includes monthly management accounts the Board were held through November Board and or the Committees are held containing analysis of performance and December 2013 to discuss the as and when necessary.
Each member against budget and other forecasts.
merits and terms of the transaction and of the Board receives in advance of each Additional information is provided as to give the Board approval for the Group scheduled meeting detailed Board packs, appropriate or if requested.
All of the directors were which include an agenda based upon meeting, the Board receives information, present for each of these calls, despite the schedule of matters reserved for its reports and presentations from the Chief them being called on relatively short approval and appropriate reports and Executive, the other Executive Directors notice.
The Chairman and Non-executive briefing papers.
If a director is unable and, by invitation, other members of Directors also met without the presence to attend a meeting due to exceptional senior management as required.
This of the Executive Directors twice during circumstances, he or she will still receive ensures that all Directors are aware the year.
the supporting papers and will usually of, and are in a position to monitor discuss any matters he or she wishes to effectively, the overall performance raise with the Chairman in advance of the of the Group, its development and meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, implementation of strategy and its management of risk.
Board and committee attendance The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year: Scheduled Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Meetings calls Committee Committee Committee Bruce Smith Alan Aubrey Mike Townend Greg Smith Charles Winward Francis Carpenter Jonathan Brooks Mike Humphrey Alison Fielding Graham Richards 1.
Key: Bruce Smith was unable to attend the December Board meeting as a result of a knee operation.
Greg Smith was on paternity leave at the time of the May Board meeting.
Alison Fielding stepped down from the Board due to personal reasons with effect from 30 June 2013.
Graham Richards retired from the Board with effect from 14 May 2013.
Unattended Stock Code: IPO www.
com 45 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview Corporate Governance continued Strong governance: a comprehensive induction process is in place for new directors Any matter requiring a decision by has established procedures for managing including one or more within the Groups the Board is supported by a paper and, where appropriate, authorising any top ten holdings by value, which will analysing the relevant aspects of the such conflicts or potential conflicts of include meeting with such companies proposal including costs, benefits, interest.
It is a recurring agenda item at management and a presentation from potential risks involved and proposed all Board meetings and this gives the them on their businesses.
In addition, executive management action and directors the opportunity to raise at the the Company facilitates sessions as recommendation.
beginning of every Board meeting any appropriate with the Groups advisers, in actual of potential conflict of interests particular its sponsor Numis Securities The majority of Board meetings are held that they may have on the matters to be Limited, as well as with appropriate at the Groups offices in London, which discussed, or to update the Board on any governances specialists, to ensure that gives members of the Groups client change to a previous conflict of interest any new directors are fully aware of service team the opportunity to formally already declared.
In deciding whether and understand their responsibilities present to the Board on new spin-out to authorise any conflict, the directors and obligations as a director of a FTSE opportunities or early-stage portfolio must have regard to their general duties 350 company and of the governance companies on which they are working.
under the CA 2006 and their overriding framework within which they must This assists the Board in gaining a deeper obligation to act in a way they consider, in operate.
understanding of the breadth, stage of good faith, will be most likely to promote development and diversity of the Groups In order to ensure that directors continue the Companys success.
The Board also aims to have to further their understanding of the directors are able to impose limits or at least one of its scheduled meetings issues facing the Group, the Chairman conditions when giving authorisation or its annual strategy day at either the and Non-executive Directors are to a conflict or potential conflict of Companys offices in Leeds, Oxford or encouraged to continue to visit the interest if they think this is appropriate.
Newcastle or at the location of one of Groups offices other than the main The authorisation of any conflict matter, the Groups partner universities in order corporate office in London, its portfolio and the terms of any authorisation, may to encourage further interaction with the companies and its partner universities.
be reviewed by the Board at any time.
Meetings between In addition, at least one of the Groups The Board believes that the procedures the Chairman and Non-executive Board meetings or its strategy day will established to deal with conflicts of Directors, both with and without the be off-site to facilitate this through 2014 interest are operating effectively.
presence of the Chief Executive, are also and, as detailed above, the Board is also held as the need arises.
Induction, awareness and exposed to the early-stage opportunities development in which the Group has invested through Directors conflicts of interest A comprehensive induction process is in presentations at Board meetings by Each director has a statutory duty under place for new directors.
The programme relevant members of the Groups staff.
the Companies Act 2006 the CA 2006 is tailored to the needs of each individual It is also intended that, through 2014, to avoid a situation in which he has or director and agreed with him or her other function heads such as the head can have a direct or indirect interest so that he or she can gain a better of IP Exec, IP Impact, Communications that conflicts or may potentially conflict understanding of the Group and its and Business Support will present with the interests of the Company.
This will generally include an to the Board to enhance the Boards duty is in addition to the continuing duty overview of the Group and its businesses, awareness of how the Group operates that a director owes to the Company to structure, functions and strategic aims: on a day-to-day basis and how such disclose to the Board any transaction site visits to the Groups head office functions operate so as to assist in the or arrangement under consideration by in London and to one or more of its execution of the Groups core strategy of the Company in which he is interested.
nationwide offices in Leeds, Oxford and systematically helping create, build and The Companys Articles of Association Newcastle: and site visits to a number support outstanding intellectual propertypermit the Board to authorise conflicts or of the Groups portfolio companies, based businesses.
The Board IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 46 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview one-to-one discussions between the to the Board concerning the composition Chairman and each of the individual and skills of the Board including any Board and directors.
A summary of the results of the changes considered necessary in the Committee evaluation review, together with the Chairman and identification and nomination of new Company Secretarys observations and directors, the reappointment of existing 2013 recommendations, was prepared and directors and the appointment of &2016 shared with members of the Board.
The members to the Boards committees.
Internally facilitated main outcome of the evaluation this year It also assesses the roles of the existing was for the Board to continue to enhance directors in office to ensure there its approach to strategy planning, both continues to be a balanced Board in in respect of the short to medium term terms of skills, knowledge, experience as well as longer term objectives for and diversity.
The Nomination Committee 2012 2014 the Group and to continue to focus on reviews the senior leadership needs of the &2015 &2017 Externally Internally succession planning, both at Board level Group to enable it to compete effectively facilitated facilitated and in other key areas of the business in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee also advises the Board In addition to the above, the Nonon succession planning for Executive executive Directors, led by the Senior Director appointments although the Critical to the success of the Board and its Independent Director, appraised the Committees in achieving their aims is the Board itself is responsible for succession effectiveness with which they operate.
In Chairmans performance, following accordance with the Code, the Company generally.
which the Senior Independent Director operates a three-year cycle for externally facilitated evaluations as set out above.
provided feedback to the Chairman.
The The Committee is chaired by Bruce Smith A summary of our internally facilitated 2013 performance of each of the directors on and its other members as at 31 December Board and Committee evaluation process the Board was reviewed by the Chairman 2013 were Francis Carpenter, Jonathan and its main outcomes is set out below.
and the operational performance of the Brooks and Mike Humphrey, being a other Executive Directors was reviewed majority of independent Non-executive by the Chief Executive as part of the Directors as prescribed by the Code.
The As a further aspect of their ongoing annual appraisal process.
In addition to Nomination Committee meets as and development, each director also receives the aforementioned annual reviews, the when required or requested by the Board feedback on his or her performance performance of Executive Directors is and met four times during 2013 to review following the Boards performance reviewed by the Board on an ongoing the structure, size and composition of evaluation in each year and, through the basis, as deemed necessary, in the the Board, following which it discussed Company Secretary, access is facilitated absence of the Executive Director under the conclusions with the Chief Executive.
to relevant training and development review.
The attendance by each member of the opportunities including those relevant to Committee is set out on page 45.
Committees of the Board the Non-executive Directors membership The composition of the three committees Before selecting new appointees to on the Boards committees.
of the Board and the attendance of the the Board, the Nomination Committee Board effectiveness and members throughout the year is set out considers the balance, skill, knowledge, performance evaluation in the diagram on page 45. independence, diversity including A performance evaluation of the Board gender and experience on the Board Remuneration and and its Committees is carried out annually to ensure that a suitable balance is Audit Committees to ensure that they continue to be maintained see paragraph headed Separate reports on the role, effective and that each of the directors Diversity on page 43 for further composition, responsibilities and demonstrates commitment to his or her explanation on the considerations made operation of the Remuneration respective role and has sufficient time by the Committee in this regard.
The Committee and the Audit Committee to meet his or her commitment to the Committee adopts a formal, rigorous are set out on pages 53 to 70 and Company.
Having sought the assistance and transparent procedure for the pages 71 to 73 respectively.
of an independent third party provider in appointment of new directors to the its 2012 evaluation in compliance with Nomination Committee Board.
Consideration is always given as the Code, the Board has carried out an The Nomination Committee leads to whether identified candidates have internally facilitated board evaluation for the process for Board appointments, enough time available to devote to the 2013 which was led by the Chairman, re-election and succession of directors role.
When searching for appropriate assisted by the Company Secretary, and the Chairman.
Its key objective is candidates, the Committee will give and which covered the effectiveness to ensure that the Board comprises consideration to using an external of the Board as a whole, its individual individuals with the necessary skills, search company but, given the in-depth directors and its Committees.
This knowledge and experience to ensure that skill, knowledge and experience of review included each of the Board and it is effective in discharging its duties.
It is the Groups internal executive search Committee members completing a responsible for making recommendations function, IP Exec, may elect to use detailed and tailored online survey and Stock Code: IPO www.
com 47 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview Corporate Governance continued this function and will also consider The Board is responsible for establishing Information and financial reporting candidates who are proposed by existing and monitoring internal control systems systems Board members or employees of the and for reviewing the effectiveness The Group evaluates and manages Group.
When the Committee has found of these systems.
The Board views significant risks associated with the a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the effective operation of a rigorous process for preparing consolidated the Committee will make a proposal to system of internal control as critical to accounts by having in place systems the whole Board and the appointment the success of the Group: however, and controls that ensure adequate is the responsibility of the whole Board it recognises that such systems can accounting records are maintained and following recommendation from the provide only reasonable and not absolute transactions are recorded accurately and Committee.
assurance against material misstatement fairly to permit the preparation of financial or loss.
The key elements of the Groups statements in accordance with IFRS.
The During the year, Professor Graham internal control system, all of which Board approves the annual operating Richards retired as a Non-executive have been in place during the financial budgets and each month receives details Director with effect from the Companys year and up to the date these financial of actual performance measured against 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Board statements were approved, are as follows: the budget.
as a whole debated the criteria for an additional Non-executive Director to fill Control environment and Principal risks and uncertainties the vacancy left by Professor Richards procedures The operations of the Group and the and it was agreed that the key criterion for The Group has a clear organisational implementation of its objectives and the role was for the individual to possess structure with defined responsibilities and strategy are subject to a number of key outstanding academic credentials.
It adopts the highest risks and uncertainties.
Risks are formally The Nomination Committee gave due values surrounding quality, integrity and reviewed by the Board at least annually consideration to using the services of ethics, and these values are documented and appropriate procedures are put an external search agency but, for the and communicated clearly throughout in place to monitor and, to the extent reasons identified above, elected to use the whole organisation.
Were more the Groups in-house resource, IP Exec, than one of the risks to occur together, Detailed written policies and procedures to source and then shortlist candidates the overall impact on the Group may be have been established covering key together with the Chief Executive and compounded.
A summary of the key risks operating and compliance risk areas.
the Chairman of the Committee.
The affecting the Group and the steps taken These are reviewed and updated at Nomination Committee members to manage these is set out on pages least annually by the Board.
The Board each interviewed the candidates who 32 to 37. considers that the controls have had been shortlisted, the outcome of been effective for the year ended Relations with stakeholders which was a recommendation from 31 December 2013.
The Company is committed to a the Chairman of the Committee to the continuous dialogue with shareholders as Board for the appointment of Professor Identification and evaluation of risks it believes that it is essential to ensure a Lynn Gladden CBE as an additional The Board actively identifies and evaluates greater understanding of and confidence Non-executive Director of the Company the risks inherent in the business, and amongst its shareholders in the medium on the basis that she met the criteria ensures that appropriate controls and and longer term strategy of the Group required, including having sufficient time procedures are in place to manage these and in the Boards ability to oversee its to discharge the requirements of the risks.
Specifically, all decisions relating implementation.
It is the responsibility role.
Professor Gladden was formally to strategic partnerships and other of the Board as a whole to ensure that appointed as a Non-executive Director collaborations and acquisitions entered a satisfactory dialogue does take place.
with effect from 26 March 2014. into by the Group are reserved for the The Boards primary shareholder contact Boards review and approval.
The Board In the year ahead, the Nomination is through the Chairman, Chief Executive formally reviews the performance of the Committee will continue to assess the Officer, Chief Investment Officer and Groups university partnerships and other Boards size and composition and how it the Chief Financial Officer.
The Boards strategic collaborations and relationships may be enhanced.
primary contact with the limited partners and equity investments on a quarterly and advisory boards of its managed funds Internal control basis, although performance of specific is through the Managing Director of Top The Board fully recognises the investments may be reviewed more Technology and the Chief Executive importance of the guidance contained in frequently if deemed appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Board maintains an up to date Register and other directors, as appropriate, on the Code Turnbull.
The Groups of Risks setting out mitigations in place in make themselves available for contact internal controls, which were Groupeach case.
The key risks and uncertainties with major shareholders and other wide, were in place during the whole of faced by the Group, as well as the stakeholders in order to understand their 2013 and were reviewed by the Board relevant mitigations, are set out on pages issues and concerns.
Where considered of Directors and were considered to be 34 to 37. appropriate, major institutional effective throughout the year ended shareholders are consulted on significant 31 December 2013.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 48 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview changes to the structure of the Executive Political expenditure Directors remuneration: as described Although it is the Boards policy not to further in the Remuneration Report, the incur political expenditure or otherwise Remuneration Committee undertook a make cash contributions to political detailed consultation exercise with the parties and it has no intention of Groups top ten shareholders through changing that policy, the CA 2006 is 2013 on the proposed changes to the very broadly drafted in this area and the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Board is concerned that it may include activities such as funding conferences The Company uses the Annual or supporting certain bodies involved General Meeting as an opportunity to in policy review and law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM held on 14 Notice of the Annual General Meeting, May 2013, the shareholders passed a which will be held at 2.00pm on resolution on a precautionary basis to 13 May 2014 at IP Group plc, 24 Cornhill, authorise the Group to incur political London, EC3V 3ND, is enclosed with this expenditure as defined in Section 365 of report.
In line with the Code, the Notice CA 2006 not exceeding 50,000 in total of AGM will be sent to shareholders at at any time from 14 May 2013 up to the least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Board Details of the resolutions and the intends to seek renewed authority for explanatory notes thereto are included the Group to incur political expenditure with the Notice.
To ensure compliance of not more than 50,000 in total at with the Code, the Board proposes the Companys AGM, to be held on 13 separate resolutions for each issue and May 2014, which they might otherwise proxy forms allow shareholders who are be prohibited from making or incurring unable to attend the AGM to vote for or under the terms of CA 2006. against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting Going concern is published on the Groups website The Directors confirm that they have after the meeting and at the meeting a reasonable expectation that the itself to those shareholders who attend.
Group will have adequate resources to Shareholders who attend the AGM will continue in operational existence for have the opportunity to ask questions and the foreseeable future and accordingly all directors are expected to be available they continue to adopt the going to take questions.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
com is the primary source of information on the ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Group.
The website includes an overview of the activities of the Group, details Dr Bruce Smith Alan Aubrey of its portfolio companies and its key Chairman Chief Executive Officer university partnerships and other strategic 3 March 2014 collaborators, and details of all recent Group and portfolio announcements.
com 49 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Our Governance Overview
