Corporate Governance AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit & Risk Committee for the year, having taken over the Chair from Nick MacAndrew in March 2013.
Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee I am pleased to introduce the report of the Audit & Risk Committee for the year, having taken over the Chair from Nick MacAndrew in March 2013.
The activities of the Committee continue to be focused on: the integrity of the financial statements of the Group: the Groups Risk Management Framework and processes: the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: and the effectiveness of the external audit process and of both our Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit functions, being the second and third lines of defence in the Groups Risk Management Framework as illustrated in the chart on page 52.
2013 has been a year of considerable progress in terms of building out our resources in both our Group Risk & Compliance and Group Internal Audit functions and we enter 2014 with a full complement of resource to deliver on our plans for the Group in 2014 and in the years ahead.
Looking ahead, in addition to the matters of regular review which are detailed in the report, the Committee is broadening its agenda to take a thematic approach on particular topics both on a geographic and a business line basis, together with presentations from the Chairs of regional and subsidiary company Audit & Risk committees which have been established in the past few years.
The report below includes a detailed look at the significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2013.
Jonathan Dawson Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee 14th March 2014 50 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 The Committees terms of reference, which cover all matters required Committee membership and meetings under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 are available from The Board considers that the members of the committee, both the Company Secretary or on the Groups website at individually and collectively, possess the necessary range of skills www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code can be and experience to enable it to properly discharge its responsibilities.
found on the FRC website www.
Lord Sassoon and Nick MacAndrew are Chartered Accountants and Richard Harvey is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Activities In view of the growth of the business in recent years, the Committee During 2013 and to the date of this Report the Committee reviewed has increased the number of its regular meetings from four to six per in the ordinary course: annum.
its terms of reference, which were revised during the year.
Ad hoc meetings are held as and when necessary.
Those normally attending by invitation are the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the drafting of the interim report, preliminary announcement and external auditors, the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group Head the annual report and accounts before their submission to the of Risk, the Group Finance Director, the Group Commercial Director Board: and the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Meetings are also held with regular reports from the Group Finance Director, including the internal and external auditors without management present.
updates on currency exposures, bank exposures and the Attendance of committee members is detailed in the table on page treatment of exceptional items: 72. regular reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer, including As part of the structure of governance across the Groups business updates on the Groups existing and planned information units, JLT has established some 18 subsidiary company and regional technology resource, human resources, and the Business Audit & Risk Committees ARCs, designed to assist local Boards of Transformation Programme: all material businesses to govern their businesses effectively.
Local company ARCs specifically focus on the oversight of significant risk, regular reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the activities audit and internal control matters affecting their companies.
Each within the function and resourcing matters: ARC is chaired by a non-executive director, many of whom are regular reports from the Head of Group Risk and Compliance independent of the Group.
In addition to formal reporting, the Group including updates on dealings with the UK and other regulators: has established a regular informal forum for local company ARC Chairs to meet together throughout the year.
areas where control weaknesses had been identified by the internal or external auditors together with the mitigation remediation plans of management: Responsibilities the regular reports of the external auditors, including internal The responsibilities of the Committee include monitoring and control issues: reviewing the following key areas in the ordinary course of business: Group errors and omissions provisions: and the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, any formal the effectiveness of the Committee.
announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Specifically during 2013 and to the date of this report, the the Groups risk management framework, risk appetite and risk Committee focused on: strategy to ensure that these are appropriate to the activities of approval of the JLT Group Risk Appetite Statement: the Group: the implementation of the enhanced Group Risk Management the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, Framework for the UK regulated entities and subsidiary including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk companies worldwide: management: the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function: the implications of the change of Regulator in the UK from the FSA to the FCA : the effectiveness of the external audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements, entities which were new to the Group through acquisition: the external auditors independence and objectivity: and matters raised by regulators in the UK as requiring particular the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply focus and progress reports on workstreams arising therefrom.
non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance This included work in relation to the Group Risk Framework and regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external Third Party Payment controls: and auditors.
areas where the committee considered it appropriate to The Committee, through its Chairman, reports its findings to the strengthen controls.
Board after each meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
51 Corporate Governance AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The chart below illustrates the JLT Group 3 lines of defence model operated under the enhanced Group Risk Management Framework: Risk Management Framework & Governance 1st Line 2nd Line 3rd Line The Business Control Functions Internal Audit JLT PLC Board JLT Group Audit & Risk Committee Entity Boards Group Risk & Compliance Group Internal Audit Entity Audit & Risk Committees Reporting Key: Primary reporting line Secondary dual reporting line Attendance at the meeting 52 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Significant issues considered by the Committee The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results and remuneration of senior management, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial results.
The main areas of focus for the year are set out below: Matters considered Action Provision for errors and omissions These are addressed through the Committee members receiving and reviewing errors and omissions reports addressing key disputes, and discussing with management the key judgements This was an area of focus due to the made, including relevant legal advice that may have been received.
We also discuss those inherent uncertainty which can surround provisions with  LLP.
legal disputes and consequently the judgemental nature of estimating the level of provision required.
Risk of material misstatement in the The Committee members address these matters through review with management outlining the initial measurement of goodwill and basis for the conclusions management have reached.
In addition, this area is a prime source of intangibles audit focus and accordingly  LLP provided detailed comments to the Committee.
This was an area of focus due to the significant acquisition during the year of the Towers Watson Reinsurance business, completed on 6th November 2013.
External auditors Internal audit function The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the The Committee is accountable to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and for overseeing the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit function.
relationship with the external auditors.
During the year, the During 2013, the Committee reviewed: Committee: the annual internal audit plan: approved their remuneration for both audit and non-audit summaries of the internal auditors reports on the Group: services, including satisfying itself that the level of audit fee was co-ordination between the internal and external auditors: appropriate to enable an adequate audit to be conducted: managements responsiveness to the findings and approved the external audit plan and ensured that it was recommendations of the internal auditors and the monitoring of consistent with the scope of the audit engagement: follow up actions relating thereto: and approved the terms of engagement, including the engagement the adequacy of the resources of the internal audit function letter issued at the start of each audit, and the scope of the including plans for increasing and enhancing that resource to audit: meet the increasing demands of the business.
assessed their independence, including in relation to non-audit services provided: reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any major issues arising, and any accounting and audit judgements: evaluated the effectiveness of the external auditors by way of a questionnaire distributed to senior finance staff across the Group: and held meetings with the external auditors without management present.
The Committee scheduled this into its timetable as a Jonathan Dawson matter of course and the Chairman of the Committee met Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee privately with the external auditors at other times.
14th March 2014 The external auditors also report regularly on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
 have been the Groups external auditors since 1997.
Under the proposed EU legislation governing auditor rotation, it is anticipated that the last year that  could audit the Groups accounts would be 31st December 2019.
There are no contractual obligations that would restrict the Companys ability to select an alternative provider should that be required.
