01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 35.
Audit Committee Report SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
A copy of the terms of references is available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the Groups accounts and whether the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for users to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee are: Christopher Spencer Chairman David MacLellan Talmai Morgan See pages 12 and 13 for biographical details of the current Audit Committee members.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee shall meet not less than three times a year and at such other times as the Audit Committee Chairman shall require.
Any member of the Audit Committee may request that a meeting be convened by the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
The external auditor may request that a meeting be convened if it is deemed necessary.
Other Directors and third parties may be invited by the Audit Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Audit Committee Chairman shall attend each Annual General Meeting of the Company and shall be prepared to respond to any shareholder questions on the Audit Committees activities.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING RISKS The Audit Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the financial statements: a Adoption of the Investment Entity Standards During the year the Group has decided to adopt early the amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
Under the revised standards, the Directors concluded that JLIF meets the denition of an investment entity.
As an investment entity, JLIF now holds its investments in its subsidiaries at fair value, taking changes in the fair value through the Income Statement, rather than being consolidated on a line by line basis in the Group accounts.
This treatment is aligned with the joint venture projects and is consistent with the accounting that was previously applied to reach the Investment Group column in the year end accounts in prior years.
Audit Committee Report continued SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING RISKS CONTINUED a Adoption of the Investment Entity Standards continued The change in accounting standards applied, the key judgements and restated comparatives have been disclosed in this annual report.
As the primary purpose of an investment entity is to generate returns from its investments, investment income has been presented as Revenue in the financial statements.
Further, investment income and fair value movements on the investments have been presented separately on the Income Statement.
Given the significant change in accounting the full revised accounting policies have been presented.
The Audit committee is satisfied that the management has assessed the appropriateness of the adoption of the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, the external auditor has challenged the correct application of all new standards consulting where appropriate with technical specialists in formulating that challenge, the management have checked comparative information for consistency with prior year information, the disclosures in the financial statements have been assessed for compliance with the new standards, the management has prepared and submitted in the year a comprehensive review to the Audit Committee on the adoption and application of the amended standards.
The Audit committee believe that the treatment of consolidation adopted in these accounts is the most appropriate to the group's circumstances as the transactions of both the Company and the Group are relevant to investors.
b Fair value of investments JLIF is required to calculate the fair value of the investments.
Whilst there is an active market for investments of this nature there is not a suitable listed, or other public market in these investments against which their value can benchmarked.
As a result a valuation is performed based on a discounted cash ow methodology in line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The calculation of the fair value of the investments carries elements of risks, mainly in relation to the assumptions and factors such as: the determination of the appropriate macroeconomic assumptions underlying the forecast investment cash ows, the impact of project specic matters to the forecast cash ows for each investments, the determination of the appropriate discount rate for each investments that is reective of the current market conditions, the underlying project financial models may not reect the underlying performance of the investment, the cash ows from the underlying financial models may not take into account current known issues and the updates performed on the underlying financial models result in errors in forecasting.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the managements assumptions have been reviewed and challenged for: the macroeconomic assumptions, including the comparison of these assumptions to observable market data, actual results and prior year comparatives and the build-up of the discount rates for consistency and reasonableness, benchmarking against market data and peers.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that the Portfolio Valuation and associated disclosures has been audited for mechanical accuracy, ensuring that the investments are brought on Balance Sheet at fair value and that the independent valuation carried out by an independent rm has been reviewed and challenged by the auditor.
c Revenue recognition The revenue recognition principle is to ensure revenues and expenses are recognised in the correct accounting period.
This remains a significant risk in the year, however with the adoption of the amendments to IFRS 10 and 12, the revenue recognised is investment income rather than that from the underlying subsidiary investments.
The risk is therefore around the revenue that may be recognised in the incorrect period due to differences in timing between cash receipts of dividends, interest and loan principal repayment and the accruals basis of accounting.
The revenue may also be double counted as a debtor as well as part of the valuation on the investment as it is incorporated into forecast cash ows.
A further risk relates to the accounting policies relevant to revenue that have been rened to address the adoption of the new and amended standards.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the controls and traceability of the distributions from the underlying investments to the Portfolio Valuation model and the cash received are consistently recognised in the correct period in the financial statements.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 37.
Audit Committee Report continued INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to be a need for an internal audit function at the Consolidated Group level.
However, internal audits of the underlying PPP projects are performed periodically by the Investment Adviser who will report findings to the Audit Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Deloitte LLP has been the Companys Auditor since launch in 2010, and this is its fourth consecutive annual audit.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee has assessed the quality and the effectiveness of the audit process.
To draw its conclusions, the Audit Committee reviewed: the scope of the audit, the audit fee and the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan: the degree of diligence demonstrated by them in the course of their interaction with the Board, the Audit Committee and management: the auditor assessment of the Groups main risks: and the report highlighting the matters that arose during the course of the audit and the recommendations made by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has noted the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance issued in February 2013 and in particular the recommendation, in each, to put the external audit out to tender every five to ten years.
The Audit Committee continues to monitor the proposed changes by the European Union UK Competition Commission in respect of auditor services and retendering, which remain a work in progress.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the audit process and as such recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The Audit Committee also recommended the Audit appointment is retendered every eight years, with the Audit partner changing every five years.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES The Audit Committee considered the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor.
The external auditors objectivity and independence is safeguarded through limiting non-audit services such as work pertaining to their role as reporting accountants for capital raising services.
ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.
Matters considered at these meetings included but were not limited to: review of the September 2013 Prospectus and all such other documents in connection with the issue and acquisition: review of circular and scrip election form: signing of the certicate of solvency required pursuant to section 304 of The Companies Guernsey Law 2008: consider the risk register of the Company: consideration and agreement of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee for approval by the Board: review of the proposed accounting policies and format of the Financial Statements: review of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the Report and Financial Statements: and review of the 2012 Annual Accounts Report and Financial Statements and the 2013 Interim report.
APPROVAL On behalf of the Audit Committee Christopher Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 March 2014
