Corporate Governance The Board of JLIF or the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to JLIF.
Procedures have been put in place to ensure compliance with the new edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code which was published in September 2012 and which applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive Directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of JLIF, being an externally managed investment company.
The company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
THE BOARD The Board consists of five Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
As the Company has no Executive Directors, the provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to the combining of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer does not apply to the Company.
Directors details are contained in pages 12 and 13 which set out the range of investment, financial and business skills and experience represented.
The Chairman is an independent Non-Executive Director and, as all other Directors are similarly independent and Non-Executive, the Board considers it unnecessary to appoint such a senior independent Director.
The Board meets at least four times a year and, should the nature of the activity of the Company require it, additional meetings may be scheduled, some at short notice.
Between meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Adviser, the Company Secretary and other advisers in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Company intends for all Directors to be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Board intends to consider the tenure of each Director after six years.
The tenure of Directors is expected to be between six and nine years to allow for phased board appointments and retirements.
This process will take account of any changes to the Boards composition arising from the need to ll a casual vacancy.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection from the Companys registered ofce.
Performance and Evaluation The JLIF board has adopted a process to review its performance on a regular basis and such reviews are expected to be carried out internally on an annual basis and through external facilitation every three years.
The Board completed its first evaluation in May 2012.
This annual evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee and individual Directors took the form of questionnaires and discussion to determine effectiveness and performance in various areas.
In November 2012, the Board engaged Optimus Group Limited Optimus, a Guernsey based independent consultancy, to carry out the first external evaluation.
This involved meeting with the JLIF Board as well as with representatives from JLCM and Heritage International Fund Managers the fund administrator, reviewing key Board documentation, and evaluating Board and committee structures.
Optimus reported its findings at the first scheduled Board meeting in 2013, concluding that the JLIF Board has a high standard of Corporate Governance and is broadly compliant with the Codes being the FRC UK Corporate Governance Code and the Association of Investment Companies Code.
Any new Directors will receive an induction from the Investment Adviser as part of the vetting process of candidates.
All Directors will receive other relevant training as necessary.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2013 33.
Corporate Governance continued Duties and Responsibilities The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
The Board has adopted a set of reserved powers which set out the particular duties of the Board.
Such reserved powers include decisions relating to the determination of Investment Policy and approval of investments, strategy, capital raising, statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial reporting and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with Guernsey Law and applicable rules and regulations of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Where necessary, in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended.
It is the Boards responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment, which extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a remuneration committee as, being comprised of five Non-Executive Directors, it considers that such matters may be considered by the whole Board.
The Company has established an Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C Spencer which operates within clearly-dened terms of reference and comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Mr Spencer, Mr MacLellan and Mr Morgan, whose qualications and experience are noted on pages 12 and 13.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year at times appropriate to the financial reporting calendar.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements: the Interim Report and Financial Statements: the system of internal controls: and the terms of appointment of the Auditor, together with their remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the Auditor reports to the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews the objectivity of the auditor along with the terms under which the external auditor is engaged to perform non-audit services.
The provisions in place to maintain the independence and objectivity of the auditor include the requirement to replace the lead audit partner every five years, and restrictions on the delivery of non-audit services to the Company with such services and the terms under which these are to be provided, considered by the Audit Committee on a case by case basis.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit service is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee, having reviewed the performance of the Auditor, has recommended to the Board that the Auditor be offered for re-appointment at the Annual General meeting of the Company.
The Company has also established a Nomination Committee appointed in 2013.
This is chaired by Mr D MacLellan and comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Mr MacLellan, Mr Spencer and Mr Morgan.
The duties of the Nomination Committee include regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, keeping under review the leadership needs of the Company, leading the process for Board appointments and identifying suitable candidates.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst Board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of Board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
The search for Board candidates is conducted, and appointments made, on merit, against objective selection criteria having due regard, amongst other things, to the benets of diversity of the Board, including gender.
Meeting attendance Scheduled Board Meeting Audit Committee max 4 max 3 Paul Lester, CBE 4 n a David MacLellan 4 3 Guido Van Berkel 4 n a Talmai Morgan 4 3 Christopher Spencer 4 3 A total of six other unscheduled Board meetings and 12 other unscheduled Committee meetings were held during the year for specic purposes which were attended by some but not all of the Directors.
Corporate Governance continued INTERNAL CONTROL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has, therefore, established a set of ongoing processes designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
These processes have been in place for the year ended 31 December 2013 and up until the date of this Report.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control through a matrix which identies the key functions carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
A regular report is provided to the Board highlighting material changes to risk ratings and then a formal review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
By their nature, these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups investment performance and activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser and Operator adhere to the agreed Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
Furthermore, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
The Board considers that an internal audit function specic to the Company is unnecessary and that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and Operator, including their own internal audit functions, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
Investment Advisory services are provided to the Company by John Laing Capital Management Limited.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall Investment Policy and monitors the action of the Investment Adviser and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited but retains accountability for all functions it delegates.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Chairman and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required and have attended analyst presentations and shareholder meetings during the year.
Reports on the views of shareholders are provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser.
All shareholders can address their individual concerns to the Company in writing at its registered address.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Adviser.
