Governance Governance 67 67 How we govern the company The Chairman keeps under review the level of attendance and Role of the Board contribution by directors at Board meetings, as well as their Who we are performance.
During the year he met with each director on an individual You can read about the Board of Directors, who they are, and the skills basis and considers that each of them makes an effective contribution and experience they each bring to the Board on pages 65 and 66.
The to the Board debate across a wide range of issues and continues to Board comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Chairman also reviews with throughout the year.
each director any training or development they need to assist them in doing their role.
Patricia Hewitt is the Senior Independent Director.
She reviewed the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into Director election and re-election account the feedback from the other Board members including the We will propose all directors for re-election this year.
We include in the internal evaluation exercise.
Patricia was consulted on the proposal Report on Directors Remuneration details of all directors contracts for the Chairman to be appointed President of the Confederation of letters of appointment.
She concluded that his commitments would enable him to continue to dedicate sufficient time to the group, Length of appointment of Chairman and non-executive directors taking into account his decision to stand down as chairman of easyJet, effective on 1 May 2013 following easyJets entry into the FTSE 100 Feb 2006 Phil Hodkinson inMarch2013.
Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake Our role March 2008 Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt We are ultimately responsible for the groups strategy and for overseeingthe groups performance, in addition to discharging certain July 2009 Tony Ball legal responsibilities.
Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread Jan 2011 Nick Rose It approves BTs: Our principal focus is on: Nov 2011 Karen Richardson Strategy 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development Calendar year Growing shareholder value The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his Oversight and control appointment.
All the non-executive directors met, and continue to Corporate governance meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Code and the Board therefore considers them to be independent.
Attendance at Board meetings We approve: We normally meet nine times each year.
When necessary, we hold additional Board meetings, and this year we held two additional Strategic plans meetings to discuss time-critical matters.
The Chairman meets privately with the non-executive directors before each scheduled Board meeting.
Annual budget If unable to attend a meeting, directors are encouraged to give their Capital expenditure and investment budgets views and comments on matters to be discussed to the Chairman in advance.
Meeting attendance by each of the directors is shown below.
Large capital expenditure and investment proposals Matters of major strategic importance Board members Meetings Eligible Member to attend Attended We set the direction for the groups values, ethics and business policies Sir Michael Rake Chairman 11 11 and practices.
We also oversee: operating and financial performance: risk management and internal controls: compliance and major public policy Ian Livingston 11 11 issues: and review the Group Risk Register.
Tony Chanmugam 11 11 We agree the corporate governance framework.
For example we Gavin Patterson 11 11 give authority to the key management committee, the Operating Tony Ball 11 9 Committee, to make decisions on operational and other matters.
a Eric Daniels 44 The Operating Committee develops BTs strategy and budget for our approval: recommends to us capital expenditure and investment Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 11 10 budgets: allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by us: plans Phil Hodkinson 11 9 and delivers major programmes: and reviews the senior talent base and Karen Richardson 11 10 succession plans.
The Operating Committee can approve, up to limits which we set, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, investments Nick Rose 11 11 and divestments.
It can, and has, delegated some of these approvals, up Jasmine Whitbread 11 9 to its own limits, to sub-committees, such as the Design Council and to a senior executives.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings of the Eric Daniels retired from the Board on 13 June 2012.
You can view a formal statement of our role at www.
