Governance Governance 75 75 BT Pensions Committee Chairs report Our work fell into seven main areas: Our role Governance, legal and regulatory You can view our terms of reference We considered legal, regulatory and policy on our website at developments and their impact on the BTPS www.
com committees and the company, and dealt with various governance matters including Trustee appointments.
Our activities are principally focused on oversight of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
Investment strategy review We get input and recommendations from We received regular reports and had frequent executive management, and are responsible discussions on the progress of a review of for: considering pension policy and strategy investment strategy that has been discussed matters that are significant to the group: with the BTPS Trustee during the year and discussing the BTPS investment strategy: was concluded in April 2013.
We believe this monitoring its performance: and reviewing and We are responsible to the investment strategy provides an appropriate approving BTs risk management activities in balance of risk and return.
Board for overseeing BTs relation to the BTPS.
relationship with the Trustee of We report and make recommendations to the BTPS performance Board on: the BT Pension Scheme, in the We received regular reports on the performance of the BTPS, and held two joint interests of pension scheme items of strategic importance to BT meetings with the BTPS Trustee Board in matters involving a financial impact of members themselves, as well 2012 13 to discuss the BTPS performance, over100m investment strategy and any proposed as our shareholders, employees the BTPS triennial funding valuation and changes.
associated recovery plan and other stakeholders.
strategic changes to benets that require Risk management rule changes or changes to the BTPS Trust We reviewed various risk management Deed and Rules.
Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt strategies in the year and agreed, where we felt it was appropriate, proposals for pensions risk What we have done reduction activities.
We met six times during the year.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Who we are BTPS administration I chair the BT Pensions Committee.
Our This year a review of the investment strategy We received regular reports on the progress membership and meeting attendance are set replaced the 2011 Triennial Valuation as a of a number of projects which had significant out below.
impact on the administration of the BTPS during the year.
Committee members Allocation of time Global pensions benets We regularly considered reports from executive Meetings management on policy and strategy matters Eligible which were significant to BT pension and Member to attend Attended benefit schemes other than the BTPS.
Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Chair 6 4 BT strategy Sir Michael Rake 6 4 We have provided information to the BTPS Trustee, both at joint meetings and in further Phil Hodkinson 6 5 separate sessions, to help keep the Trustee Ian Livingston 6 6 better informed about BTs strategy and a Clare Chapman 63 business in a number of key areas.
Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Chair of the BT Pensions Committee Governance, legal BTPS administration 7% and regulatory 25% 9 May 2013 Global pensions Investment strategy benets 7% review 23% BT strategy 6% BTPS performance 14% Other 7% Risk management 11% Governance Governance
