Governance Governance 65 65 Board of Directors Sir Michael Rake Ian Livingston Tony Chanmugam Gavin Patterson Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, BT Retail Appointed to the Board as Appointed as Chief Executive in Appointed to the Board as Group Appointed to the Board as CEO, Chairman in September 2007.
A June 2008 and on the Board since Finance Director in December BTRetail in June 2008.
A British national, age 59. national, age 45.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, Ian has financial, risk, operational, Tony has experience in finance, Gavin has experience in sales, and international business and sales and marketing and risk and the management and marketing and operations.
He professional services expertise international business experience.
He was formerly Managing Director, gained during his time as He was formerly CEO, BT Retail was formerly CFO, BT Retail, and Consumer Division, BT Retail and chairman of KPMG International and prior to that, Group Finance Managing Director, BT Enterprises before joining BT was managing from 2002 to 2007.
He joined Dixons Group and, from 1997 to 2004, he was director of the consumer division held other roles in KPMG from in 1991 after working for 3i and CFO and then Chief Operating of Telewest.
A Chartered Accountant, Bank of America International.
officer of BT Global Solutions.
nine years at Procter and Gamble, he was knighted in 2007 for His positions at Dixons spanned He qualied as a Chartered rising to become European his services to the accountancy operational and financial roles Management Accountant.
He is a Other appointments Other appointments include Chartered Accountant.
Other appointments include None outside BT.
Non-executive director of Deputy chairman of Barclays Other appointments include BritishAirways.
and a non-executive director of Non-executive director and McGraw-Hill.
Sir Michael is vicechairman of the audit committee president of the RNIB, a member of Celtic.
of the board of the Transatlantic Business Council, and is also to be appointed President of the Confederation of British Industry in June 2013.
Key to membership of Board committees Operating Nominating & Governance Equality of Access Board Audit & Risk Sustainable and Responsible Business Remuneration BT Pensions Governance Governance Governance Governance 66 66 Tony Ball Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt Phil Hodkinson Karen Richardson Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in July Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in 2009.
March 2008 and became Senior February 2006.
A US national, Independent Director in July age 55. age 50.
A British and Australian Skills and experience Tony brings international business Skills and experience dual national, age 64.
With a 25 year career in the expertise in addition to financial, Phil has experience in the financial technology and software industry, operational, sales and marketing Skills and experience sector as well as risk, control, Karen brings experience in experience.
From 1999 to 2003 Patricia brings experience governance and sustainable technology to the Board.
Karen Tony was chief executive of of running large complex business.
Phils previous roles was previously a board member of BSkyB.
He has also held a number organisations, government affairs, included group finance director i2Group and from 1998 to 2005 of senior executive positions public policy and international of HBOS, chairman of Insight Karen was with the NASDAQin broadcasting and telecoms business.
Patricia stepped down as Investment and Clerical Medical listed software company Epiphany businesses in the UK, US and an MP at the 2010 election.
She and chief executive of Zurich Life Inc, latterly as chief executive Continental Europe.
was Secretary of State for Health and Eagle Star Life.
from 2005 to 2007, and Trade and Other appointments include Other appointments include Industry and Cabinet Minister for Other appointments include Chairman of the supervisory board Non-executive director of Women from 2001 to 2005.
Director of Convercent, and an of Kabel Deutschland, and on Friends Life Group, Business in advisory board member of the the board of the Spanish cable Other appointments include the Community and Travelex.
Mita Institute and at Stanford company ONO.
Independent director of Groupe Also a trustee of Action Medical University.
Eurotunnel SA and chair of the UK Research and BBCChildren in India Business Council and Katha Need.
Nick Rose Jasmine Whitbread Dan Fitz Non-executive director Non-executive director Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in January Dan is the Group General Counsel 2011.
A British and Swiss dual and Company Secretary of BT national, age 49.
He joined BT in April Skills and experience 2010 as its Group General Counsel Nick brings experience in finance, Skills and experience and was appointed Company risk, control, governance and Jasmine has experience in UK Secretary in November 2012.
and global businesses and previously spent six years at Misys He was chief financial officer of corporate social responsibility plc and twelve years at Cable & Diageo prior to his retirement in and sustainable business.
December 2010, having joined was appointed chief executive of the board in 1999.
Save the Children International in 2010, having joined Save the Other appointments include Children in 2005.
Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings, senior independent Other appointments include director of BAE Systems, and Governor of Dragon School Trust.
