Governance Governance 63 63 The wholesaler of choice Communication providers data-hungry customers depend on BT UK mobile data trafc will grow by more than 400% in the next three years, said research Governance rm IHS in January 2013.
That growth is driven by the increased popularity of hungrier apps on smartphones and tablets.
To handle this explosion in trafc, mobile network In this Report of the Directors we set out operators need high-quality transmission and backhaul network solutions.
who sits on the Board, our governance For the last four years, we have helped UK mobile structure and how it operates, and our operators upgrade their backhaul networks, providing areas of focus in the year.
better coverage and more capacity at lower cost.
And we continue to expand our vast state-of-the-art network and Mobile Ethernet Access Service which 64 Chairmans governance report nowlinks around 15,000 UK mobile base stations.
65 Board of Directors Now we are helping them to exploit 4G for their customers.
And we are developing wholesale managed 67 How we govern the company network solutions to help them improve customer 67 R ole of the Board service without spending lots of money on their own 71 Reports of the Board Committees infrastructure.
71 Audit & Risk Committ ee Chairmans report 73 Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report Find out more online at www.
com 75 B T Pensions Committee Chairs report 76 Committ ee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Chairmans report 77 R eport on Directors Remuneration 93 Directors information EE is the first mobile 94 General information operator to bring 4G services 97 Shareholders and Annual General to the UK.
BT Wholesale Meeting played an invaluable role in helping us reach this significant achievement.
Fotis Karonis Corporate governance statement CTO of EE We are committed to operating in accordance with best practice in business integrity and ethics and maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting and corporate governance.
The directors consider that BT has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as currently in effect and applied the main principles of the Code as described on pages 63 to 97 of this Report of the Directors.
The Code and associated guidance is available on the Financial Reporting Council website at www.
uk The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for 2012 13.
BT Group plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of companies: its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
The Strategy, Business and Performance sections on pages 11 to 61 and Governance on pages 63 to 97 form the Report of the Directors.
We present the audited financial statements on pages 102 to 162 and 167.
