Governance Governance 76 76 Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Chairmans report The Stakeholder Forum will have a exible and Our role dynamic membership model that will change depending on the subject matter.
It will use a You can view our terms of reference range of social media platforms to interact and on our website at gain insights from a wide range of stakeholders www.
com committees globally for our Better Future programme and three long-term goals.
We develop our Better Future programme Within the Better Future programme we with recommendations from executive oversee investment in projects which make management.
This applies globally and a difference for the communities in which includes our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
We we operate, and for our environment.
We oversee corporate responsibility, environment focus on the use of technology and support and community activities, and review our the volunteering activities of employees.
The strategy for maximising our contribution to investment by the group in 2012 13 was society.
Our role is integral to our strategic Our Better Future programme 27m in time, cash and in-kind support.
The priority of being a responsible and sustainable investment is split 52:48 between volunteering drives responsible and business leader.
activities by employees and cash funding.
sustainable business to the The group annually approves investment for We set out below the time allocated by us to heart of BTs operations, responsible and sustainable business.
For the the different elements of the Better Future year ended 31 March 2013, this investment and we have aligned our programme.
This reects our change in focus target was a minimum of 1% of adjusted this year following our adoption of the new governance structure to profit before taxation based on 2011 12 governance structure.
This investment is split between support this strategic priority.
programmes we directed and activities embedded in the lines of business.
Investment Allocation of time comprises contributions in cash, and in kind, Sir Michael Rake and we invest in time through our people volunteering.
What we have done Who we are We met twice during the year.
We also visited I chair the Committee for Sustainable and Edinburgh to see first hand the impact on Responsible Business CSRB.
Our membership communities and stakeholders of the projects and meeting attendance are set out below.
Except Gavin Neath, we all served throughout the year.
We have a diverse membership, During the year BT launched our Better Future andthis brings a wide range of views to our programme.
This programme is underpinned oversight of responsible and sustainable by the three long-term goals of connected businesswithin BT.
society, net good, and improving lives.
Our strategy is designed to embed sustainability Better Future Strategy Improving lives 13% throughout our business.
We have made a Committee members Governance 28% series of governance changes in the way we Meetings Volunteering 18% Net good 13% manage our strategic priority and to embed it Connected society 13%Other 15% Eligible within BT.
We now focus our time on designing Member to attend Attended the strategy for the group.
We apportion our Sir Michael Rake 2 1 investment across the three long-term goals.
On our trip to Edinburgh in March we a Clare Chapman 22 We have formed a new Sustainable Business saw projects based around enterprise and a Leadership Team which comprises senior Niall Dunne 22 employability programmes targeting 14-17 executives from across our business units b year olds, and science and engineering clubs Lord Michael Hastings 22 and is charged with delivering our strategy to encourage and develop skills in a primary Phil Hodkinson 2 2 and embedding it within the company.
We also visited two mentoring b Baroness Margaret Jay 22 review detailed projects for funding and programmes, one aimed at entrepreneurs, b Dame Ellen MacArthur 22 implementation, and they report both to us and the second at armed forces personnel bc and to the Operating Committee.
This ensures Gavin Neath 11 transitioning to civilian employment.
that both our strategic and operational Gavin Patterson 2 1 activities receive appropriate oversight.
We Jasmine Whitbread 2 2 have changed the way we gain external views Sir Michael Rake a for our strategy.
We have discontinued the Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable BT employee.
external Leadership Advisory Panel that had and Responsible Business c Joined the committee on 1 November 2012. previously advised us, and we are putting in 9 May 2013 place a new Stakeholder Forum.
