Governance Governance 71 71 Reports of the Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report The Board has agreed that I have recent and No contractual obligations exist that restrict the relevant financial experience as required by groups choice of external audit rm.
We discuss the provisions of the Code and that I constitute with the auditors the scope of their audits an audit committee financial expert for the before they start.
We review the results and purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
consider the auditors formal reports, and we report the results of those reviews to the Board.
After each meeting I report to the Board on the main issues that we discuss.
Independence of the external auditors Committee members As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, we may need to employ the external auditors Meetings for certain non-audit services.
The Board Eligible has agreed policies in line with the relevant Member to attend Attended provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on what Over the past year we have non-audit services can be provided by the Nick Rose Chairman 6 6 paid particular attention to external auditors and the relevant approval Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 6 5 process.
This safeguards the independence increasing our understanding a Phil Hodkinson 22 and objectivity of the external auditors.
Work beyond group level risks.
b of a consultancy nature is not to be offered Karen Richardson 44 to the external auditors unless there are clear We have attended line Jasmine Whitbread 6 6 efficiencies and value-added benets for the of business audit & risk a company.
Phil Hodkinson retired from the committee on 30 June committees, received deep- 2012. b Karen Richardson joined the committee on 13 June 2012.
Internal audit dive risk presentations from We monitor internal audit and its relationship the line of business CEOs, and with the external auditors, as well as internal Our role undertaken in depth reviews audits plans, performance and effectiveness.
of specic markets such as You can view our terms of reference Internal controls and risk Italy.
All of this has served to on our website at management www.
com committees enhance our understanding On behalf of the Board, we review the groups of BTs overall control We have clear terms of reference which set out risk prole, endorse a programme for testing of our authorities and duties.
We review these the risk mitigation and controls that underpin environment.
annually and they are approved by the Board.
the groups assessment of residual risk and review the groups current risk exposure and capability to identify new risks.
Our role Nick Rose External audit supports the Boards responsibilities in respect We recommend the appointment and of the monitoring, review and reporting on re-appointment of the external auditors internal control and risk management.
and consider their resignation or dismissal, Who we are recommending to the Board appropriate We review the disclosures made by the Chief I chair the Audit & Risk Committee, and our actionto appoint new auditors.
Executive and Group Finance Director during membership and meeting attendance are set the certication process for the Annual Report & We assess the performance of the external out opposite.
Form 20-F. You can read more about this process auditors annually.
The evaluation focuses on: on page 95.
The Board takes responsibility for Although not members of the committee, audit scope and planning: performance of the all disclosures in the Annual Report & Form the Group Finance Director, Group Controller, lead audit partner and the audit team: audit 20-F. We also consider any whistleblowing Company Secretary, Director Internal Audit reporting and communications: added value: reports including the condential, anonymous and Director Group Financial Control attend and the audit fee.
 submission by employees regarding accounting, each meeting, as does the lead audit partner LLP and its predecessor rms have been BTs internal accounting controls or auditing matters, and other representatives from our external auditors since BT listed on the London Stock ensuring arrangements are in place for the auditors.
The external auditors are not present Exchange in 1984.
The external auditors are proportionate, independent investigation and when we discuss their performance and or required to rotate the lead partner every five appropriate follow-up of such matters.
years and other partners that are responsible for the group and subsidiary audits change The Board considers that our members have Financial reporting at least every seven years.
Such changes are broad commercial knowledge and extensive We review BTs published financial results, carefully planned to ensure business continuity business leadership experience.
We have held the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other without undue risk or inefficiency.
The partner between us various roles in major business, published information for statutory and responsible for BTs audit is completing his Government, financial management, and regulatory compliance.
We report our views to fourth year within the group audit team and financial function supervision, and the Board the Board to assist in its review and approval his first year as lead partner, which is a role he considers that this constitutes a broad and of the results announcements and the Annual can continue for a further three years.
suitable mix of business and financial experience.
