Governance Governance 67 67 How we govern the company The Chairman keeps under review the level of attendance and Role of the Board contribution by directors at Board meetings, as well as their Who we are performance.
During the year he met with each director on an individual You can read about the Board of Directors, who they are, and the skills basis and considers that each of them makes an effective contribution and experience they each bring to the Board on pages 65 and 66.
The to the Board debate across a wide range of issues and continues to Board comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Chairman also reviews with throughout the year.
each director any training or development they need to assist them in doing their role.
Patricia Hewitt is the Senior Independent Director.
She reviewed the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into Director election and re-election account the feedback from the other Board members including the We will propose all directors for re-election this year.
We include in the internal evaluation exercise.
Patricia was consulted on the proposal Report on Directors Remuneration details of all directors contracts for the Chairman to be appointed President of the Confederation of letters of appointment.
She concluded that his commitments would enable him to continue to dedicate sufficient time to the group, Length of appointment of Chairman and non-executive directors taking into account his decision to stand down as chairman of easyJet, effective on 1 May 2013 following easyJets entry into the FTSE 100 Feb 2006 Phil Hodkinson inMarch2013.
Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake Our role March 2008 Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt We are ultimately responsible for the groups strategy and for overseeingthe groups performance, in addition to discharging certain July 2009 Tony Ball legal responsibilities.
Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread Jan 2011 Nick Rose It approves BTs: Our principal focus is on: Nov 2011 Karen Richardson Strategy 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Development Calendar year Growing shareholder value The Board viewed the Chairman as independent at the time of his Oversight and control appointment.
All the non-executive directors met, and continue to Corporate governance meet, the criteria for independence set out in the Code and the Board therefore considers them to be independent.
Attendance at Board meetings We approve: We normally meet nine times each year.
When necessary, we hold additional Board meetings, and this year we held two additional Strategic plans meetings to discuss time-critical matters.
The Chairman meets privately with the non-executive directors before each scheduled Board meeting.
Annual budget If unable to attend a meeting, directors are encouraged to give their Capital expenditure and investment budgets views and comments on matters to be discussed to the Chairman in advance.
Meeting attendance by each of the directors is shown below.
Large capital expenditure and investment proposals Matters of major strategic importance Board members Meetings Eligible Member to attend Attended We set the direction for the groups values, ethics and business policies Sir Michael Rake Chairman 11 11 and practices.
We also oversee: operating and financial performance: risk management and internal controls: compliance and major public policy Ian Livingston 11 11 issues: and review the Group Risk Register.
Tony Chanmugam 11 11 We agree the corporate governance framework.
For example we Gavin Patterson 11 11 give authority to the key management committee, the Operating Tony Ball 11 9 Committee, to make decisions on operational and other matters.
a Eric Daniels 44 The Operating Committee develops BTs strategy and budget for our approval: recommends to us capital expenditure and investment Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 11 10 budgets: allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by us: plans Phil Hodkinson 11 9 and delivers major programmes: and reviews the senior talent base and Karen Richardson 11 10 succession plans.
The Operating Committee can approve, up to limits which we set, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, investments Nick Rose 11 11 and divestments.
It can, and has, delegated some of these approvals, up Jasmine Whitbread 11 9 to its own limits, to sub-committees, such as the Design Council and to a senior executives.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings of the Eric Daniels retired from the Board on 13 June 2012.
You can view a formal statement of our role at www.
com board Governance Governance Governance Governance 68 68 The Chairman and the Chief Executive fostering key relationships including those with governments, The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
They regulators, major customers and suppliers, industry players and are set out in written job descriptions, agreed by the Nominating opinion formers & Governance Committee.
These provide clarity on the different monitoring the performance of, and succession planning for, responsibilities of each role.
A summary of these is set out below.
BTs senior management team, with due regard to diversity TheChairman and the Chief Executive meet regularly and keep in close maintaining an effective framework for internal controls and contact as they recognise that their working relationship is a critical link risk management between the Board and senior management.
engaging and communicating with BT people, including communicating the expectations of the Board.
Role of the Chairman The Chairmans role is to lead a well-informed and effective Board, The Non-Executive Directors and Company ensure sound governance of the group and represent the group in Secretary key relationships.
The roles of the non-executive directors and the Company Secretary His key responsibilities include: areset out below.
chairing the Board, Nominating & Governance Committee, andthe Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business: Role of the Non-Executive Directors being a member of the BT Pensions Committee The non-executive directors: ensuring that the Board determines the nature, and extent, ofthe significant risks BT is willing to embrace in implementing provide a strong, independent element on the Board and its strategy are well placed to challenge constructively and help develop consulting with the non-executive directors, particularly the proposals on strategy Senior Independent Director, on corporate governance matters collectively bring experience and independent judgement, monitoring the contributions and performance of the nongained at the most senior levels of international business executive directors and the Chief Executive and acting on operations and strategy, finance, marketing, technology, performance evaluations undertaken by the Board communications, political and international affairs and promoting a culture of openness, debate and appropriate responsible and sustainable business leadership.
challenge, and ensuring constructive relations between In her capacity as the Senior Independent Director, and as the executive and non-executive directors chair of the Remuneration Committee, Patricia Hewitt may ensuring, with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, meet with BTs major institutional shareholders and shareholder that the Board is kept properly informed, is consulted on all representative bodies, and she is able, if necessary, to discuss matters important to it, receives accurate, timely and clear matters with them where it would be inappropriate for those information and has adequate time to discuss all items discussions to take place with either the Chairman or the Chief ensuring that new directors participate in a full, formal and Executive.
You can nd further details on page 97.
Patricia also acts tailored induction, and regularly reviewing and agreeing with as a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the each director their training and development needs other directors when necessary.
being a key contact and escalation point for important stakeholders, and ensuring that BT maintains effective Each non-executive director has an appointment letter setting out communication with shareholders and that their views, and the terms of his or her appointment.
This includes membership anyconcerns, are communicated to the Board of any Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time with the Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, commitment expected.
We ask each non-executive director to representing BT in key strategic and government relationships.
allow a minimum commitment of 22 days each year, subject to committee commitments, and to allow slightly more in the first year in order to take part in the induction programme.
We highlight that additional time may be required if the company is going through Role of the Chief Executive increased activity.
The appointment letter also covers matters such as The Chief Executive is responsible for the performance and condentiality of information and BTs share dealing code.
management of the groups business and success in achieving itsgoals and targets while managing the risks.
His key responsibilities include: Role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary: proposing strategies, business plans and policies for Board approval, and implementing those consistently with BTs manages the provision of timely, accurate and considered purpose, values, business principles and standards information to the Board implementing Board decisions recommends to the Chairman and the Chief Executive, for leading the Operating Committee in the day-to-day running Board consideration where appropriate, corporate governance ofthe business policies and practices and is responsible for communicating and with the Operating Committee, developing and implementing implementing them across the group appropriate strategies and monitoring the financial, operational advises the Board on appropriate procedures for the and customer service performance of the group management of its meetings and duties and those of the maintaining shareholder relations including ongoing main Board committees, as well as corporate governance communication with major shareholders andcompliance within the group.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
Governance Governance 69 69 What we have done Key areas Actions The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
A number of these areas are also considered by the Board committees.
This is broadly in line Board Effectiveness with last year.
A number of strategy reviews took place throughout the year and more time was spent on key business discussions such as TV More blue sky style discussion on We have received regular and wireless and mobility.
key strategic choices strategy updates during the year.
We also held our annual Board strategy session in Allocation of time March 2013.
Strategy 30% Opportunities for the Board Senior executives below the Business & members to have greater visibility Operating Committee have CEO updates 28% of senior executives presented to us on items Finance & IR 21% including TV, 4G spectrum, IT Governance, services and cyber defence.
Risk & Audit 11% They have also attended People, Health networking breakfasts and & Safety 6% dinners with the Chairman and non-executive directors.
Other 4% Separate reviews have taken place outside Board meetings with individual non-executive directors and management During the year we carefully considered and agreed the strategic teams in key business areas direction in relation to launching BT Sport and the 4G auction.
We also such as TV, bre and customer endorsed the refreshed BT values, which came into effect in April 2013. service.
In addition to the regular monthly reports from the Chief Executive, Board Process Group Finance Director and Company Secretary, each of the lines of business presented during the year on their business.
This included Enhance the feedback from The Remuneration Committee opportunities and challenges.
During the year, we reviewed the theRemuneration Committee to chair updates the Chairman companys strategy, our approach to tax, investor relations and the Board and non-executive directors communications.
In relation to people, we received updates on health, during the private session safety and wellbeing and a report on organisational health.
We visited ahead of our Board meetings.
the US west coast to look at some of the trends impacting our industry, Access to additional information We have received updates explore emerging technologies and meet with some of our longand resource in certain areas from external equity analysts standing partners.
We have procedures in place for managing potential conicts of interest, and directors have a duty to update us on any changes to these potential Performance conicts.
Phil Hodkinson declared that he was on the board of HMRC prior to any discussion on tax.
We were comfortable there was no Continuing interest in a range of Specic training has included: conict in relation to the matters being discussed.
training areas updates on anti-corruption and bribery: geopolitical risk: developments in financial Board evaluation reporting: an Openreach The Chairman and Company Secretary carried out a Board evaluation working session covering in March and April 2012 through a questionnaire and discussion.
The a range of topics including resulting report, which we discussed in May, described a number of innovations and technology: areas where we were effective and functioning well.
We also identied a and sessions with key number of improvements.
We highlight our progress in the keyareas in suppliers.
We have distributed an internal questionnaire for the next annual Extend the time spent on review of We have been engaged on Board evaluation.
This covers the following areas: our composition and talent and succession planning the effectiveness of talent effectiveness and that of our Board committees: strategy: management processes during the year performance: risk: the processes supporting us: and our performance.
and the Chairman and nonWe will discuss the results of the questionnaire at a future Board executive directors have meeting.
We reviewed the succession plan In addition, the Audit & Risk Committee, and Nominating & Governance at our April 2013 meeting.
Committee have undertaken an evaluation of their effectiveness.
Governance Governance Governance Governance 70 70 Board induction On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme to increase their knowledge and understanding of the business.
We provide them with information about BT, our role as a Board and the matters reserved for our decision.
We include: the terms of reference and membership of the main Board committees: the powers delegated to those committees: corporate governance policies and procedures, including the powers reserved to our most senior executives: and the latest financial information.
We organise meetings with each of the executive and non-executive directors, members of the Operating Committee and senior executives across the business as part of the induction programme.
Training and information In addition to the induction programme, we have an ongoing programme of director development and company awareness.
This gives the non-executive directors an appreciation of the different elements of the business.
We highlight the key features of the programme below.
Key areas Programme Our business, the competitive We provide directors with and regulatory environment, and written briengs and monthly other changes affecting us and Investor Relations and Analyst the communications industry as Relations reports.
Directors a whole also have meetings with senior executives.
Legal and other duties and The Company Secretary briefs obligations as a director of a directors on appointment and listedcompany provides them with updates both in writing and in faceto-face meetings.
During the year we provide reminders of certain obligations, and updates in changes to legal, accounting and governance requirements.
Updates from the Chairman The Chairman sends a weekly email to non-executive directors.
This includes updates on key business activities and topical sector highlights.
