Governance continued Directors Report continued designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures Corporate Governance Statement have operated effectively during the year under review.
Compliance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent The Company is committed to high standards of corporate professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Directors Responsibilities on page 43, indicates how the Director has to the advice and services of the Company Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of ensuring adherence to Board procedures and compliance with Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the applicable rules and regulations.
UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of 1 best practice for investment trusts.
Board Composition The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by corporate governance and considers that the Company has Sarah Bates, all of whom are considered to be independent complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys investment knowledge, business and financial skills and business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
experience relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 29 Role of the Board and 30.
A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM A review of Board composition and balance is included as part sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of includes management of the Companys assets within the which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the a senior independent director should be appointed and has provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration concluded that, as the Board is comprised entirely of and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Chairman of the Audit Committee, Simon Bragg, is available to reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved includes determination and monitoring of the Companys through discussion with the Chairman.
investment objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, Tenure appointment and removal of third party service providers, Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual review of key investment and financial data and the Companys General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Association, it is required that they be reappointed by The Board meets at least five times during the year and shareholders.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for information is provided to the Board to enable it to function Directors to seek annual reappointment in accordance with effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their corporate governance best practice.
The Board does not responsibilities.
Further information on meetings and believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies committees can be found on page 35. a Director from seeking reappointment but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of the the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures 1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 34 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set face outside scheduled formal meetings.
In 2013 Directors met out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are on a number of occasions in relation to new share issuance, available for inspection on request at the Companys registered blocklisting of shares and to discuss the Companys broking office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board also spent some time discussing possible gearing and borrowing arrangements and met with On 1st May 2013, James Fox retired as a Director and Audit various banks to discuss their proposed financing agreements.
Committee Chairman and Simon Bragg became his successor.
Board members met to work on the risk matrix, to meet the new marketing team at JPMAM and to discuss our performance Induction and Training and management fee arrangements.
Importantly, Directors On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide also visited the fund management team in New York and spent all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular time with a number of longer term strategists as well as with briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory senior management and the dealing desk in JPMAMs offices.
requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering Board Committees issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Regular Nomination & Remuneration Committee reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sarah Board by means of the evaluation process described below.
Bates, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance Meetings and Committees of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown necessary.
The appointment process takes account of the with the Directors profiles on pages 29 and 30. benefits of diversity, including gender.
The table below details the number of formal Board and The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the account of the benefits of these during the appointment year there were five Board meetings, including a private process.
However, the Board remains committed to appointing meeting of the Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, the most appropriate candidate, regardless of gender or other two Audit Committee meetings and a meeting of the forms of diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against Nomination & Remuneration Committee were held.
Nomination & The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of Audit Remuneration the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure Board Committee Committee that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed Meetings Meetings Meetings adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The Director Attended Attended Attended evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, 1 Sarah Bates 52 1 including gender, and how it works together.
Questionnaires, Kate Bolsover 52 1 drawn up by the Board, with the assistance of JPMAM and a Simon Bragg 52 1 firm of independent consultants, Linstock Limited, are Sir Alan Collins 52 1 completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and 2 James Fox 21 1 then discussed by the Committee.
The evaluation of all James Williams 52 1 Directors is led by the Chairman who also meets individually with each Director.
The Audit Committee Chairman leads the 1 Attended by invitation of the Committee.
2 evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
As well as the formal meetings detailed above, the Board The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes communicates frequently by email or telephone to deal with recommendations to the Board as and when required.
day to day matters as they arise.
Directors also meet face to JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35 Governance continued Directors Report continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee also examines the effectiveness of the The Audit Committee, chaired by Simon Bragg, consists of all Companys internal control systems, receives information from the Directors, except the Chairman of the Board, and meets at the Managers compliance department and also reviews the least twice each year.
The Chairman of the Board attends by scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness invitation of the Committee.
The members of the Audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Committee consider that they have recent and relevant In the Directors opinion the Auditors are independent.
financial expertise and the requisite skills and experience to The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance which the draft Annual Report & Accounts were considered Code.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee and also engage with Directors as and when required.
Having provides confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including its responsibilities so that the Board may ensure that assessing the quality of work, timing of communications and work information presented to it is fair, balanced and with JPMAM, the Committee considered it appropriate to understandable, together with details of how it has done so.
The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the During its review of the Companys financial statements for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The current tenure of the year ended 31st December 2013, the Audit Committee external auditor dates from 10th August 2006.
Any decision to considered the following significant issues, in particular those open the external audit to tender is taken on the communicated by the Auditors during their reporting: recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Significant issue How the issue was addressed Terms of Reference Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in Both the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define investments note 1 to the accounts on page 51.
The audit includes the determination of the existence and ownership of clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are the investments.
available on the Companys website and for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Annual Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust General Meeting.
Sections 1158 and 1159 under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years commencing on or after 1st January 2012 has been Relations with Shareholders obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full The Board is required to be made fully aware of any significant understanding of the Companys activities and performance financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way with the preparation of the financial statements.
of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and As a result of the work performed, the Committee has two Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of 31st December 2013, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the net asset value of the Companys shares.
understandable and provides the information necessary for All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the model and strategy, and has reported on these findings to the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 43.
36 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 addition, a presentation is given by the investment manager The Company is also aware that approximately 4.2% of the who reviews the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through investment management team, JPMAM and the Companys savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name brokers hold regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the and Directors make themselves available as and when required terms and conditions of the savings products, under certain to address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be circumstances JPMAM has the right to exercise those voting contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and restrictions shown on page 77. and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of Risk Management and Internal Control the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at questions via the Companys website or write to the Company least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys Secretary at the address shown on page 77. system of risk management and internal control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be review of all controls, which the Board has identified to include published on the Company website shortly after the Annual business, financial, operational, compliance and risk General Meeting.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk management and internal control which is designed to The following disclosures are made in accordance with safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting Section 992 Companies Act 2006: records and ensure that financial information used within the Capital Structure business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of cover of this report.
failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, Voting Rights in the Companys shares material misstatement or loss.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual Since investment management, custody of assets and all General Meeting on page 73. administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of risk Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues management and internal control mainly comprises Information on environmental matters, social and community monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, issues is set out on page 28.
The Company has no employees.
including the operating controls established by them, to ensure Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an At the date of this report, the following had declared a ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 26 and 27.
The Company does not have an internal audit Shareholders Number of function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department voting rights % of JPMAM which reports any material failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The key Brewin Dolphin Limited 8,686,963 15.8 elements designed to provide effective internal control are as Investec Wealth & Investment follows: Limited including Rensburg 4,966,332 9.0 Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by Cheviot Asset Management 2,526,177 4.6 the Board of key investment and financial data, including Legal & General Group plc 1,688,968 3.1 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 Governance continued Directors Report continued management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Corporate Governance and Voting Policy transactions and performance comparisons.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct corporate governance, voting policy and social and Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by a written agreement.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Report on page 28.
Management Systems The Managers system of risk management and internal control includes organisational Corporate Governance agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules and reports to which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate the Board.
governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement Board.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Proxy Voting Companys system of risk management and internal control by JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and Manager and its associates as follows: diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, of the management agreement and receives regular we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: invested.
the Board reviews a report, which is also independently Stewardship Engagement reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional the Directors review every six months an independent shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, report on the internal controls and the operations of managers should: JPMAMs investment trust department.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms stewardship responsibilities to their clients: that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: of risk management and internal control for the year ended 31st December 2013, and to the date of approval of this Annual monitor their investee companies: Report and Accounts.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: During the course of its review of the system of risk management and internal control, the Board has not identified have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has and determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in report to clients.
respect of necessary actions has not been considered JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its investments and supports appropriate.
its principles as best practice.
We believe that regular contact with the 38 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk Institutional  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 25th March 2014 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
