The Deferred shares will have the same rights that the proposed at the Subscription share General Meeting, which will Subscription shares will have following the lapse of the be held immediately after the AGM.
Subscription Share Rights but will also confer an entitlement to The differences between the Existing Articles and the New a dividend at a fixed rate of 0.001% of their nominal value so Articles are set out in the Appendix on pages 64 to 65.
A copy of that they are not treated as Ordinary share capital for the the New Articles, together with a mark up showing the changes purpose of the investment trust eligibility conditions and to the Existing Articles, is available for inspection at the accordingly there would be no requirement for the Deferred Companys registered office from the date of this document shares to be listed.
until the date of the AGM and copies will also be available for In addition, the rights attaching to the Deferred shares will inspection at the AGM and the Subscription shareholder General enable the Company to repurchase all of the Deferred shares Meeting.
which arise after the lapse of the Subscription Share Rights for an aggregate consideration of one penny for all the Deferred Recommendation shares so repurchased.
If any of the outstanding Subscription The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 14 are likely to shares are converted into Deferred shares following the final promote the success of the Company and are in the best exercise date, the Company intends to repurchase all of the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Deferred shares immediately and the Deferred shares will then The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour be treated as cancelled in accordance with Section 706 of the of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their Companies Act 2006 without the requirement for any further own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to resolution or consent.
The Company shall not be obliged to 27,484 Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.02% issue share certificates to the Deferred shareholders if any in of the voting rights of the Company.
respect of the Deferred shares or account to any Deferred shareholder for the repurchase moneys in respect of such Corporate Governance Deferred shares.
Compliance The effect of these changes is to ensure that, following the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate lapse of the Subscription Share Rights, the Companys share governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of capital is simplified and will consist solely of Ordinary shares.
Directors Responsibilities on page 32, indicates how the In addition, the New Articles provide the Final Subscription Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Trustee if required with the flexibility to exercise some but not Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code all of the Subscription Share Rights that remain outstanding the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of after the final exercise date.
This amendment is intended to Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements maximise the potential for the holders of those Subscription the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework Share Rights to receive some return, on a pro rata basis, even if of best practice for investment trusts.
the Final Subscription Trustee decides that it is unable to place The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level all of the Ordinary shares that would arise if all of the of corporate governance and considers that the Company has outstanding Subscription Share Rights were exercised.
complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Finally, a new provision is included in the New Articles that will Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year give the Company the ability, in lieu of going through the Final under review.
Subscription Trustee procedure, to make a payment to the Role of the Board Subscription shareholders equal to the Boards best estimate A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM of the amount which would be received by Subscription sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
shareholders were such procedures to be followed.
This includes management of the Companys assets and the These proposals require the approval of Ordinary shareholders provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative by special resolution resolution 14 to be proposed at the AGM and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved and Subscription shareholders, also by special resolution to be JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 25 Directors Report continued for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be includes determination and monitoring of the Companys resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
investment objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, Tenure appointment and removal of third party service providers, Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual review of key investment and financial data and the Companys General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Association, it is required that they be appointed by The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment is subject conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of The to the performance evaluation carried out each year and the Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures approval of shareholders at each annual general meeting, in designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures accordance with corporate governance best practice.
have operated effectively during the year under review.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and independence as a Director of the Company.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are information is provided to the Board to enable it to function available for inspection on request at the Companys registered effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Induction and Training There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the regular briefings are provided on changes in law and advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is regulatory requirements that affect the Company and the responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to complied with.
Regular reviews of the Directors Board Composition training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means of The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of six the evaluation process described below.
non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including Meetings and Committees the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to knowledge, business and financial skills and experience committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit details of each Director are set out on pages 16 and 17.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part The table below details the number of Board and Committee of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director 26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a Directors.
This takes into account the level of fees paid to the Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination directors of the Companys peers and within the investment Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
trust industry generally to ensure that high quality people are attracted and retained.
Recommendations are made to the Management Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination Board as and when appropriate.
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Audit Committee Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose membership is set out on pages 16 and 17, meets at least twice David Gamble 52 1 1 1 each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 1 they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the Nigel Kenny5 2 1 1 1 responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the Percy Mistry5 2 1 1 1 1 Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders now attends by invitation.
Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Board Committees Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Nomination Committee systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists department and also reviews the scope and results of the of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the auditors suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
The and is satisfied that the auditors are independent.
The Audit appointment process takes account of the benefits of diversity, Committee also has the primary responsibility for making including gender.
An independent third party, Trust Associates, recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and were employed to conduct the search for a new Director, which the removal of external auditors.
During the year, the resulted in the appointment of Sarah Arkle.
Trust Associates Committee put the external audit out to tender.
Following have no connection with the Board or the Manager.
a thorough review process, it was decided to reappoint The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of  as the Companys independent the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure external auditors.
that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the Audit adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The Committee meeting at which the draft annual report and evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, accounts are considered.
Having reviewed the performance of skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, the external auditors, the Committee considered it appropriate including gender, and how it works together.
In the year under to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this review, the evaluations were undertaken by Stephenson & Co. recommendation which will be put to shareholders at the an independent consultancy.
Stephenson & Co. who have no forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board reviews and connection with the Company or the Manager, produced a approves any non-audit services provided by the independent report at the conclusion of the process which was then auditors and assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the discussed by the Committee.
The evaluation of individual ability of the auditor to remain independent.
The only nonDirectors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior Independent audit work carried out by the auditors this year was in relation Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
to their subsidiary companys work on the Companys tax Remuneration Committee return in Pakistan.
The Board has resolved that such non-audit The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, work does not impact on the independence of the auditors.
consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the Details of the auditors fees paid for audit and non-audit levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the services are disclosed in note 5 on page 41.
Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 27 Directors Report continued The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in control is set out below.
time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Management Engagement Committee questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan questions via the Companys website or write to the Company Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to Secretary at the address shown on page 69. review the performance of the Manager.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the General Meeting.
investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the Section 992 Companies Act 2006 long term, and the quality of support that the Company receives from JPMAM.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board The following disclosures are made in accordance with confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of Section 992 Companies Act 2006. the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Capital Structure Terms of Reference The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management front cover of this report.
Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference Voting Rights in the Companys shares which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the of which are available on the Companys website and for date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual inspection on request at the Companys registered office and General Meeting on page 61. at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues Relations with Shareholders Information on environmental matters, social and community issues is set out on page 30.
The Company has no employees.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights understanding of the Companys activities and performance At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by in the Companys voting rights: way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and Ordinary two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by Shareholders shares % the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Lazard Asset Management LLC 28,079,113 23.4 City of London Investment All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged Management Company 11,863,552 9.9 to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.0 Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
Sarasin & Partners LLP 5,232,073 4.3 In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager JPMorgan Asset Management who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys Holdings Inc. 4,697,689 3.9 brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular On 12th September 2013, City of London Investment discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made Management Company disclosed that their holding was fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make 13,084,623 shares 10.97%.
No further changes to these themselves available as and when required to address holdings had been notified as at the date of this report.
The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 69.
28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 The Company is also aware that approximately 8.4% of the management and internal control mainly comprises Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, savings products managed by JPMAM and registered in the including the operating controls established by them, to ensure name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are that they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the the terms and conditions of the savings products, under significant risks faced by the Company see Principal Risks on certain circumstances JPMAM has the right to exercise those pages 20 to 21.
This process has been in place for the year voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant report and accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of This arrangement is kept under review.
Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are The key elements designed to provide effective internal control contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and are as follows: the Companies Act 2006.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Board of key investment and financial data, including the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of to securities: no agreements between holders of securities transactions and performance comparisons.
regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and which the Company is party to that affect its control following a custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Risk Management and Internal Control Management Systems The Managers system of risk management and internal control includes organisational The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These system of risk management and internal control and to report are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which to shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the management.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk management and internal control which is designed to The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system records and ensure that financial information used within the of risk management and internal control by monitoring the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of associates as follows: failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only reviews the terms of the management agreement and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance material misstatement or loss.
department: Since investment management, custody of assets and all reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations administrative services are provided to the Company by of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of risk independently reviewed: and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 Directors Report continued disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: reviews every six months an independent report on the risk management and internal controls and the operations of monitor their investee companies: JPMAM.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: Companys system of risk management and internal control for and the year ended 30th June 2013 and to the date of approval of report to clients.
this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and During the course of its review of the system of risk supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that management and internal control, the Board has not identified regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an determined to be significant.
active owner on behalf of our clients.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Social & Environmental JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such corporate governance, voting policy and social and as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked Corporate Governance with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and from JPMAMs website: www.
co. uk diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what institutional  CorporateGovernance, which will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting invested.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC By order of the Board Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, managers should: Company Secretary 4th October 2013 publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: 30 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
