Directors and governance Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor, review and enhance the integrity of the Groups internal controls, its financial reporting and the way the Group assesses, manages and reports risk.
A significant part of the Committees time is spent on these areas, and as the business continues to become more complex, it presents an increasing number of challenges for the Committee to address.
The uncertain economic climate only enhances the need to ensure our processes remain fit for purpose.
The following report sets out the activities of the Committee over the past year and how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Giles Kerr Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committee and its membership The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management of risk.
The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company on request, and are summarised below: Summary of the Committees terms of reference I Advising the Board whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
I Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
I Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance.
I Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
I Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
I Providing the Board with objective advice and assurance as to the effective operation of risk management.
I Approving an annual programme of internal audit work.
I Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the auditor.
I Agreeing the scope of the auditors annual audit programme and reviewing the output.
I Keeping the relationship with the auditor under review, including terms of engagement, fees, their independence and expertise, resources and qualifications: and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
I Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Members Members Committee member since Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 1 Peter Chambr 1 November 2010 Ian Much 1 November 2010 2 James OShea 25 September 2012 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 1 Peter Chambr retired from the Committee and the Board on 25 September 2012.
2 James OShea retired from the Committee on 19 March 2013.
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 49.
Directors and governance 57 Audit Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report continued Committee members qualifications The composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year and the Board is satisfied that the members have the breadth of knowledge and experience necessary to effectively fulfil the Committees responsibilities.
Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance at Oxford University.
He is considered by the Board to have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the Chairman of the Committee.
He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as set out on page 72.
Other members bring substantial experience in international business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations of the Committee.
In particular Richard Wohanka has more than 20 years experience in the finance and asset management industry.
For further information, see the directors biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Other attendees at Audit Committee meetings The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Director of Finance, Group Financial Controller and Internal Auditor normally attend meetings.
The external auditor usually attends the meetings.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities A summary of matters considered at the Committee since the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below: I Review of the Groups half year results to 30 September 2012 and full year results to 31 March 2013.
I Review of the reports from the external auditor on the half year and full year results.
I Review of the Internal Auditors work plan and review of internal audit reports produced throughout the year.
I Consideration of accounting issues, prospective changes in accounting standards and their impact on Group reporting.
I Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full year audit.
I Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto.
I Assessment of the going concern basis.
I Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud procedures.
Assessment of detailed risk review of the Groups supply chain.
I Review of the disclosures relating to material risks in the business review.
I Review of the Groups compliance systems and policies and the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing.
I Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
I Review of the Groups tax affairs.
I Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference.
I Completion of an effectiveness review.
Financial results review A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements.
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and auditors report with management and the external auditor and considers significant judgements and issues contained in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they present a balanced assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
Following this discussion the Chairman of the Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
The external auditor meets with the non-executive directors in the absence of management at the time when the half and full year results are discussed.
Internal control and risk review The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board on its findings twice-yearly.
The Committee has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial, operational, healthcare law compliance and risk for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to appropriately manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities whilst ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
Directors and governance 58 Audit Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the material controls of the Group, which are embedded within the day-to-day business.
The Committee with the Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from the appropriate sections of the business, reviews the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and business objectives.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk management plan that is designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they occur, how such risks are being appropriately mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for delivering the mitigations.
The Committee continues to monitor this process including a consideration of what comprises an acceptable level of risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation strategy, having regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of the mitigation options.
The Committee reports its findings twice-yearly to the Board.
The Audit Committee received a risk report in November 2012 which sought to provide a more detailed risk assessment of the Groups external supply chain given that has for some time comprised one of the most material business risks to continuity of product supply and therefore revenue.
This process sought to assess the merits of the current risk mitigation strategies in this area and assess the potential cost, likelihood of success and business impact of additional or alternative risk mitigation options.
The Committee supported the ongoing implementation of certain risk mitigation activities.
The Audit Committee received the latest report at its May 2013 meeting, and was satisfied with actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified.
TheGroup also has a Compliance Steering Committee, which is responsible for maintaining a compliance system to ensure that the Group is compliant with all applicable healthcare compliance laws such as US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group including the activities of the US sales and marketing team.
The results are reported to the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report.
Compliance remains a material business risk and work throughout the year focused on ensuring compliance policies were effectively understood, implemented, trained on and embedded into the business as an integral part of business operations.
Certain policies were modified in order to clarify policy requirements and ensure business team accountability for delivering business initiatives in accordance with those requirements.
For details of principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, see pages 32 to 35 in the business review.
There is an internal audit function in the Group and a full-time auditor who has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in addition to a reporting line within the Head Office finance function.
The Committee receives regular reports on the work of the internal audit group.
Last year, in the initial period since establishment of the function, the internal auditor concentrated on internal financial reviews and visited all major sites.
Additional internal audits included a review of the scope of the Compliance policies adopted by the Group and subsequently the effectiveness of their implementation and operation.
The work carried out by the Internal Auditor did not identify any material weaknesses in internal controls but approved proposals to enhance control procedures.
The Committee proposed that the internal audit work plan be expanded to increase the focus on key control risks and sales compliance audit over the past year in addition to the work on financial controls.
Whistle-blowing The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial performance or other matters are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up action takes place.
Included within the Code of Conduct are details of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and there are posters and pamphlets prominently displayed at each site giving details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the business.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone line is available should staff wish to use it.
The arrangements were reviewed by the Committee during the year.
UK Bribery Act The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy introduced in 2010 in response to the UK Bribery Act 2010.
This has included the conduct of due diligence on new key business partners who may act on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
Directors and governance 59 Audit Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Audit Committee report continued Review of external auditor The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Committee discussed the auditors proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2013 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Committee agreed a new process for approving the use of the auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required.
Areas where prior approval is not required include audit-related services as specified in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, that are routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the conduct of such services will not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity.
The Committee receives a written Annual Report describing the fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved or specifically approved by the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the recent changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published in September 2012, which include the requirement for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
KPMGhave been the Groups sole external auditors since the Company listed in 1995 and the audit contract has not been put out to tender since their appointment.
David Bills, the current audit engagement partner will have completed his five-year term at the conclusion of this audit and his successor, Richard Broadbelt will replace David for the 2013 14 year end audit.
Whileconsidering partner rotation, the Committee considered whether it would be an appropriate time to engage in an external audit tender process.
In considering this, the current speed of change and complexity of the business, and the services offered by the current auditors were assessed, together with the recent guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
TheCommittee concluded that it would not be in the Companys interests to commence a tender process at the current time, however this decision would be reviewed annually.
The Committee and the Board therefore recommend the reappointment ofKPMG as external auditor, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Our auditor, KPMG Audit plc has instigated an orderly winding down of the business which will then be undertaken by KPMG LLP.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditors and a resolution concerning their appointment will be put to the forthcoming AGM of the Company on 16 July 2013.
The auditor was employed to carry out the following non-audit work during the year: Fees Audit Committee approval Task 000 Pre-approval required US tax compliance services 71 Tax advisory services 42 Transaction services 30 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor, KPMG, are shown in note 6 on page 104.
The Committee believes that the use of KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances and that independence was preserved as a partner other than the audit partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG as a whole.
Committee evaluation As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
The Committee was found to be functioning well, however, a recommendation forfurther enhancement to the risk management process was identified as a Board objective, see page 52 of the corporate governance report for further detail.
Directors and governance 60 Audit Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
