Corporate governance Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the corporate governance report on behalf of the Board.
The Board is committed to achieving and maintaining high levels of corporate governance and recognises its responsibility to focus on strengthening the Companys management processes.
The Company has complied fully with the 2010 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2013.
Next years Annual Report will comment on the Companys compliance with the new provisions of the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 as that applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board is also committed to maintaining an open dialogue with our shareholders and it is important for me, as well as other members of the Board to make ourselves available to shareholders and to meet with any who wish to see us.
During the year I have met with two investors, Louise Makin, our CEO, held over 70 meetings with investors and Rolf Soderstrom, our CFO, met with over 30 institutional investors.
In addition, Louise Makin gave presentations at a number of conferences which were attended by existing and potential shareholders as well as industry representatives.
Communications with shareholders are coordinated during the year by the Director of Investor Relations, who reports directly to the CFO.
At the Companys AGM on 16 July 2013, all directors will attend and be available to meet investors as usual for face-to face discussions.
The following pages explain in detail how the Company applies the Code in its day-to-day operations.
Garry Watts Chairman Directors and governance 48 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance The Board believes it is fundamental that corporate governance and the Code are actively embedded within the culture of the organisation in order to continually improve standards and build a successful company.
This report explains how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
More information on the Code can be found on the FRC website, www.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance Board composition The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
The Board has been chaired by Garry Watts since he joined the Board in this role on 1 January 2012.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring it is effective in all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Louise Makin, is primarily responsible for the running of the Group.
Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the wider business activities of the Group as required.
Giles Kerr has been the Companys Senior Independent Director SID since July 2008.
His principal role as SID is to support the Chairman in his role, to work with the Chairman and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise, to lead non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and CEO.
He is also available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate.
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 42 to 43.
The Company recognises the importance of diversity, including gender diversity, with 25% of the members of the Board currently being women.
Details of gender diversity in the Group below Board level can be found in the Responsibility area of the website: www.
The table below details the composition of the Board, its Committees, together with their attendance at meetings since the last Annual Report and the Companys assessment of the independence of the directors.
Board and Committee Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 10 3 3 5 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO None No 10 10 N A N A N A Rolf Soderstrom CFO None No 10 10 N A N A N AA Non-executive directors 2 1 Garry Watts Nom No 10 10 3 3 N A N A 3 Peter Chambr Aud, Nom Yes 2 3 0 2 3 3 N A 2 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 9 10 2 3 3 3 4 5 Melanie Lee Rem Yes 10 10 N A N A 5 5 2 Ian Much Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 9 10 3 3 3 3 5 5 4 James OShea Nom, Aud Yes 10 10 3 3 1 1 N A 5 Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 4 4 N A 2 2 N A 1 Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
3 Peter Chambr resigned as a director and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees on 25 September 2012.
4 James OShea joined the Audit Committee on 25 September 2012 to replace Peter Chambr and then stepped down on 19 March 2013 following the appointment of Richard Wohanka.
5 Richard Wohanka joined the Board and Audit Committee on 1 January 2013.
6 Following the change of venue, Giles Kerr was unable to attend one Board, and one Remuneration Committee and one Nomination Committee meeting.
Due to the convening of one of the Board meetings at short notice, Ian Much was unable to attend due to a pre-existing commitment that could not be changed.
7 The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
8 The table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended number of meetings eligible to attend.
Directors and governance 49 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance continued The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Code.
Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement.
Inline with the recommendations of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
Garry Watts was considered to be independent at the time of his appointment although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board are independent nonexecutive directors thereafter.
Board responsibilities and balance The Board has a number of matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval.
These include the approval of the interim and annual financial statements, the interim management statements and major public announcements, setting strategic direction, budgets and long-term plans.
Other areas include the approval of major investments and disposals, major capital expenditure, decisions relating to major litigation, significant financing, dividend policy and executive remuneration and appointments.
The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, the performance of management, succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance and standards of ethical and social behaviour.
It is also responsible for developing robust corporate governance, legal compliance and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and assets and the integrity of its financial information and business conduct.
While the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct responsibility for the business operations of the Company, the non-executive directors are responsible for bringing independent and objective judgement to Board decisions and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the effective running of the Board.
The nonexecutive directors duties include helping to develop the Companys strategy, shaping proposals on succession planning and constructively challenging the executive directors where they consider it appropriate.
The time commitment of the non-executive directors depends on the number of committees that they are a member of but the expectation is that they would normally work approximately two days per month, subject to any increased demand driven by business activity.
Roles and responsibilities The Board The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and specifically to: I Set the Companys strategic objectives and policies.
I Ensure the necessary financial and human resources are in place to support strategy.
I Determine the significant risks that the Company is willing to take to achieve its strategic aims and ensuring effective risk management controls are in place.
I Review management and Company performance.
I Ensure the proper discharge of the Companys statutory and other legal and regulatory responsibilities.
I Agree and oversee the application of an appropriate corporate governance framework.
The Chairman The Chairman is responsible for creating conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, to promote constructive debate and for ensuring the following: I That the Board devotes adequate time to the right agenda issues, such as its role in shaping strategy.
I A robust decision making process is in place by ensuring appropriate high-quality information is made available to the Board in a timely manner.
I The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to risk management.
I Board Committees are properly structured with appropriate terms of reference.
I Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open communication are fostered between the executive and non-executive directors, providing support and advice while respecting the executive responsibility.
I Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Directors and governance 50 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance The Senior Independent Director SID The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: I Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, and leading his evaluation.
I Working with the Chairman, other directors and shareholders at times of conflict or stress to resolve significant issues.
Executive directors The executive directors are responsible for leading, overseeing and managing the whole business, they are also responsible for: I Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision on an issue, explaining in a balanced way any divergence of view in the executive team.
I Encouraging the non-executive directors to thoroughly test proposals put forward to the Board in the light of their wider experience.
I Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an effective and evidence based approach and to ensure that the Board is well informed about all aspects of the business and its operation which bear on its strategy.
I Delivering high-quality information to the Board to enable it to monitor the performance of the whole business including the management of risk, and to make critical decisions, e. g. on remuneration and investments.
Directors conflicts of interest To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 directors conflicts of interest, the Companys Articles enable the Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors conflicts of interest.
Directors complete a declaration form in order to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts need authorisation.
The forms are reviewed annually to ensure that the information provided is up-to-date and includes any disclosures made during the past year.
At the March 2013 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary amendments to their existing declarations.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen.
Board members are reminded at regular intervals to disclose any conflicts should they arise.
Any such notifications are kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary.
Any director who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest is required to report this to the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and report their findings to the Board.
Information, training & support, performance evaluation and re-election of directors Information, training and support Using an electronic device based application, the directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed, in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
Additional information is provided as appropriate and senior executives regularly make presentations at Board meetings on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility.
Board meetings are occasionally held at different office locations enabling non-executive directors an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites.
Upon joining the Company, each director receives a comprehensive induction package, including written information and opportunities to meet appropriate members of staff.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through publications and conferences and through information provided by the Company and its advisers.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have direct access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company also provides appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
Performance evaluation The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of the CFO.
The Chairman and non-executive directors review the performance of the CEO.
The non-executive directors, led by the SID and following input from the executive directors, evaluate the performance of the Chairman each year.
The Committees also review their performance and report the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors in order to discuss the performance of the executive directors and any concerns over their management of the Companys affairs.
Last year, inline with the requirement of the Code for an external evaluation at least every three years, external consultants, SCT Consultants Ltd, were appointed to assist with the review.
Directors and governance 51 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance continued This year, the Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees, both through measuring performance against annual objectives and through an individual process, using a web-based tailored questionnaire.
The results of the process confirmed that the Board provided effective leadership of the Group.
The directors reported progress had been made against recommendations set out following last years external evaluation, in particular: I A significant increase in the strategic content of the Board agenda and discussions, focusing on those matters which will contribute to the ongoing transformation of the Group.
I Membership and operation of the Committees were refreshed last year allowing greater focus on key issues.
That included supplementing the experience of the Audit Committee with the addition of Richard Wohanka.
The risk management process was enhanced and included a more in-depth analysis of selected significant risks as well as the usual periodic reviews of all material risks.
I Greater focus was placed on the development needs of the organisation as a whole, having regard to the capacity and capabilities needed to ensure that the needs of the business can be met and it can deliver on its existing objectives and future strategic objectives.
As part of this ongoing process 69 additional employees have been hired during the course of the year, with a focus on commercial activities 22 account managers and key areas of functional support such as quality assurance 21 employees, regulatory and medical science liaisons 7 employees.
In light of the results of this years evaluation the Board objectives are to: I Continue to enhance the transparency and rigour of the risk management process, to ensure a greater understanding of the source and quality of the assurance over the effectiveness of the risk controls.
I Fully draw on the experience and expertise of all Board directors, in part to be addressed by the provision of one-to-ones with the CEO.
I Ensure better benchmarking of the operation and performance of the business against appropriate peers.
Board membership and election of directors Peter Chambr retired from the Board as non-executive director on 25 September 2012, having served since 2006.
RichardWohanka joined the Board as non-executive director on 1 January 2013.
Following these changes the Board continued to comprise a non-executive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
As reported in the Nomination Committee report on pages 61 to 62, the Committee reviews the composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the necessary skills to support the development of the business.
Richard Wohanka, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM is standing for election for the first time while all the other directors are standing for re-election at this years AGM.
Following the formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role, including time for Board and Committee meetings and their other duties.
Further information on the directors is shown in their biographies on pages 42 to 43. Financing reporting and internal control The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 82 and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on pages 83 and 84.
Communications with shareholders, be they results announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the Board, or a sub-committee thereof, in order to ensure they are transparent and balanced in the view they give of the Companys progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial controls for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors and governance 52 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities whilst ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
To strengthen the control framework of the business, the Group has a dedicated full-time internal auditor.
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 57 to 60.
Structure and reporting The Group has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing the performance of the Group.
The Companys Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for the day-to-day running of Group operations.
Other team members include the CFO and senior staff members from the business.
The team is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the Companys strategy and subsequent implementation.
Other responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate internal controls are in place to manage and assess risk and that they are fully complied with.
The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are described below.
The Group has well defined management structures and processes for the assessment, evaluation, and acquisition of business opportunities, and development and execution of commercialisation strategies.
A number of committees that monitor various parts of the business report to the Leadership Team on a regular basis: I Innovation Leadership Team: Investigates new products, product line extensions and new indications to address identified unmet needs, providing strategic and operational leadership of innovation activities up to proof of principle in man.
I Operational Leadership Team: Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all applicable regulatory requirements.
I Development Leadership Team: Evaluates new development opportunities, and is intimately involved in the definition and execution of development activities, beyond proof of principle in man, to support the Companys commercial strategies.
I Performance Management Review: Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business plans and targets, both financial and operational.
I Risk Committee: Responsible for monitoring risks throughout the organisation and assessing the effectiveness of the risk control and mitigation measures implemented by the Group, reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice-yearly.
In-depth analysis of key risks is undertaken periodically to ensure a degree of independent assessment of the operational application of the risk management process and to seek to identify opportunities to apply alternative or enhanced risk mitigation strategies.
I Compliance Steering Committee: Responsible for maintaining and overseeing a compliance system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws including US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, including its US sales and marketing teams.
This committee reports to the Audit Committee at least twice-yearly.
I Corporate Responsibility Committee: Ensures the Group maintains high standards in this area.
The Leadership Team generally meets weekly and more formally on a monthly basis to review business performance measured against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each business unit as well as to assess and respond to issues arising across the Group.
Forecasts are monitored monthly on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is based on the information provided to and reviewed by the Leadership Team as well as their assessment and recommendations regarding how to deliver the Groups objectives.
The reports include nonfinancial as well as financial information and a review of progress within the development portfolio.
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the detailed reports of the Risk, Internal Audit, and Compliance Committees and reported its findings to the whole Board.
For further details see the Audit Committee report on pages 57 to 60.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal control issued by the Code.
The Group has a system and key expert personnel responsible for supporting the protection and maintenance of patents and other intellectual property rights.
The Group also actively monitors its royalty revenue streams and from time-to-time audits its major licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of the relevant agreements.
Directors and governance 53 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance continued Approval procedures The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of input by internal and external expert advisers.
The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational impact for the Group to be approved by the Board.
Corporate policies, values and compliance All employees within the Group continue to receive periodic training on the key requirements of the Groups Code of Conduct which covers all aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including a whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and corruption policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research and development and interactions with doctors and other healthcare professionals.
Relevant employees meet regularly to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and financial environments in which the Group operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best practice.
The Group also runs periodic lunch and learn sessions updating staff on key issues affecting the business.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
The controls described above operate and are embedded within the day-to-day business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
Further information is given in the Audit Committee report on pages 57 to 60.
Related parties and conflicts of interest The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are identified, disclosed and managed.
Directors declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and thereafter complete an annual self-certification.
Where it is identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the effective management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oxford University.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered into technology commercialisation and revenue sharing agreements with these organisations prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board.
The Group has licensed the intellectual property rights covered by these agreements to independent third-party companies that are developing and or selling the licensed products.
Under these licence agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone payments and or royalties on sales of the products sold by the third-party licensees.
Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group pays a share of any income it receives to Oxford University or Isis Innovations, depending on the specific technology that generated the income.
As the revenue sharing agreements do not permit these organisations to have any input over the commercialisation of the licensed products or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts received in his position outside the Group.
Because he has no influence over any aspect of these agreements in his role outside the Group, the Company considers that his independence in relation to the BTG Group is not compromised.
Within the BTG Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any discussions or decisions concerning the relevant agreements either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings with the executives of its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this separation of duties.
See note 30 on page 131 for additional related party disclosures.
Market abuse directive The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations.
The Committee reviews all significant items of business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those employed within the Group and at external advisers who may have access to inside information.
Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from the List they are notified accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
Directors and governance 54 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and governance Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AGM Relations with shareholders The Group endeavours to maintain good communications with shareholders through formal and informal dialogue.
The Company formally reports its results twice a year with full year results announced in May and interim results in November.
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the information of all shareholders.
The presentations are available thereafter as an archive on the Companys website and a webcast of the event on the website for approximately a year.
In addition, the Company prepares interim management statements in January and July that are released to a regulatory news service and are available on the Companys website.
The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with support from the Investor Relations department.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director SID and other directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate.
Two requests have been received from major shareholders to meet with the Chairman, during the year.
The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting giving information on the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results announcements and any subsequent shareholder meetings held by management, detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Annual Report contains a full business review and the Interim Report, which is available on the Companys website, gives an update at the half year.
Extensive information, including Annual and Interim Reports, interim management statements and all press releases, is published on the Groups website www.
com for access by all shareholders.
In addition, through the website, individuals can register to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements on the day they are issued.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss the Groups business with the directors and other senior management.
A full business presentation is given and there is an open question and answer session during which shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
The directors are available after the meeting for an informal discussion with shareholders.
The AGM will be held at 10.30 am on 16 July 2013, at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M7SH.
The Notice convening the meeting is distributed separately to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is also available on the Companys website: www.
com, where a copy can be viewed or downloaded in PDF format by following the link to Investor Relations and then Report & Accounts.
The letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
As a result of the review by the Remuneration Committee of the remuneration policy applicable to the executive directors, a revised policy and associated arrangements will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
A summary of the new policy can be found in the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81 and is described in more detail in the explanatory notes in the AGM Notice.
Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form accompanying the Notice.
In order to vote electronically, members should log on to Capita Registrars website www.
com and follow the instructions on the screen.
Crest members may send their proxy votes to the Companys registrars electronically.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in respect of each resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published in a market announcement and on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
At this time the Company does not consider it appropriate to introduce mandatory poll voting on all resolutions put to the AGM but will continue to keep that position under evaluation in future years.
Directors and governance 55 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee and auditor The Company has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities of overseeing financial reporting and internal control matters and maintaining appropriate relations with the Companys auditor.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 57 to 60.
Appointments to the Board The Company has a Nomination Committee with responsibilities that include reviewing the size and composition of the Board: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors, and the re-appointment of non-executive directors when their terms of appointment expire: and for ensuring that succession planning is in place.
The Committee also advises the Board on matters generally relating to Board appointments and meets as required but at least twice a year.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 61 and 62.
Compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the principles set out in the Code throughout the year ended 31March 2013.
Details of directors remuneration, as required by the Code and Schedule 8 to the Largeand Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, are set out in the remuneration report on pages 63 to 81.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review whether this corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with nine of the Codes provisions as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to Accountability and Audit.
Having conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance.
The Company confirms that no such report has been made.
Directors and governance 56 Corporate governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
