Directors and governance Nomination Committee report The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for appointments and reviewing the structure of the Board and its Committees.
The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed during the year, are available on the Companys website, or from the Company on request, and are summarised below: The Committee and its membership Summary of the Committees terms of reference I To review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board looking at its balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge as well as its diversity including gender diversity and make recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
I To identify and nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive directors and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Officer, executive directors.
I To plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
I To recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Members Members Committee member since Garry Watts Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 1 Peter Chambr 22 May 2007 Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 Ian Much 1 January 2012 James OShea 13 May 2009 1 Peter Chambr retired from the Committee and the Board on 25 September 2012.
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 49.
Other attendees at Nomination Committee meetings I The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
I The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities The principal activities during the year related to the recruitment of a new non-executive director, as outlined below.
At the start of the process for appointing new directors, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
External search consultants are usually appointed to assist with finding suitable candidates.
The Committee interviews candidates and then produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board members.
In assessing candidates for Board roles, the Committee has regard to the objective of ensuring appropriate diversity including gender diversity of Board composition.
Around the time of Peter Chambr leaving the Board the Committee commenced a search for a new non-executive director.
TheCommittee instructed Saxonbury Limited to find suitable candidates for interview.
Saxonbury were chosen, given their experience of fulfilling such roles, and have not provided any other recruitment services to the Company.
The Committee carried out a rigorous interview and selection process and their shortlisted candidates were also interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee, taking into account the views of the other directors, the Boards requirements with respect to skills and experience and diversity, including gender diversity, then recommended to the Board that Richard Wohanka be appointed as a non-executive director and also as a member of the Audit Committee, given his specific expertise in the finance and asset management industry.
Following a discussion, the Board accepted the recommendation and Richard Wohanka was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2013.
Directors and governance 61 Nomination Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Nomination Committee report continued Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures that they receive a full induction programme.
As part of the induction process the new director is given a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and details of its strategy, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for the new director to meet with the heads of the various business units for a briefing on the areas of business in which the Company is involved.
A briefing on corporate governance and directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is also available.
The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for emergency cover of key managers and directors on a regular basis.
Committee evaluation As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
The Committee was found to be functioning effectively.
Focus would continue on ensuring necessary capability and capacity of the Board having regard to the changing needs of the business.
Garry Watts Chairman of the Nomination Committee Directors and governance 62 Nomination Committee report BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
