AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE The Committees principal role is to gain assurance as to the integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems.
In particular the Committee is responsible for: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the significant reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls: reviewing the process for the management of risk and the assurance procedures over controls designed to manage key risks: David Sleath reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys relationship Chairman of the Audit Committee with the external auditor, including auditor independence, fees and provisions of non-audit services: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the I AM PLEASED TO INTRODUCE appointment of the external auditor: and THE REPORT OF THE AUDIT developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
COMMITTEE FOR 2013, THE The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed and PURPOSE OF WHICH IS TO revised by the Board at the end of 2012 to take account of the recent GIVE SHAREHOLDERS AN changes to the Code which apply to the 2013 financial year, are available on the Companys website, www.
OVERVIEW OF THE OPERATION In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent AND SCOPE OF THE AUDIT access to the services of the Companys internal audit function and to the external auditor and may obtain outside professional advice COMMITTEES FUNCTION as necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external AND TO REPORT ON ITS auditor have direct access to me as the Chairman of the Committee and I held a number of meetings with each of them during the year ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN outside formal Committee meetings.
ACTIVITIES As Chairman of the Committee, I hold preparatory discussions with the Companys senior management, the Head of Internal Audit and In 2012 the Financial Reporting Council the external auditor prior to Committee meetings to discuss the items to be considered at the Committee meetings.
In addition, introduced a number of changes to the UK separate discussions are held between the Committee and the Head Corporate Governance Code the Code, of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management present.
I also attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any some of which related to the role and shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees reporting requirements of Audit activities.
The Committee met on five occasions during the year and members attendance at those meetings is set out in the Committees.
In particular, these new table on page 41. requirements, which apply for the first During the year the Committees activities included: time to the Companys financial year ended 31 December 2013, are centred on the Audit receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in relation to the half yearly financial report and the annual financial Committees relationship with the external statements, further details of which are set out below: auditor and its review of the financial reviewing the half yearly financial report and the annual financial statements.
This report has been prepared statements and the formal announcements relating thereto, further details of which are also set out below: in accordance with the revised requirements receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit of the Code.
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme for the year: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys risk management systems: 44 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Taxation reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial The Committee reviewed reports and received presentations from the Head of Tax highlighting the principal tax risks that the Group reporting or other matters and receiving periodic reports relating to the matters raised through such arrangements: faces, the tax strategy and the judgements underpinning the provisions for potential tax liabilities.
The Committee also reviewed reviewing the Committees terms of reference and the the results of the external auditors assessment of provisions for Committees effectiveness: income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities and, having done reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and so, was satisfied with the key judgements made by management.
the internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires by both the Board and senior management within Defined benefit pension scheme obligations The Committee considered reports from management and the the Company: external auditor in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit making recommendations to the Board concerning the pension schemes and reviewed the key actuarial assumptions used appointment of the external auditor and approving the in calculating the defined benefit pension liabilities, especially in remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor relation to discount rates, inflation rates and mortality life including the audit strategy and planning process for the expectancy.
The Committee discussed the reasons for the decrease current financial year: in the net pension deficit and was satisfied that the assumptions reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work used were appropriate and were supported by independent actuarial specialists.
Details of the key assumptions used are set out in which the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work, further details of which are set out below: and Note 20 to the financial statements.
reviewing the principal tax risks applicable to the Company and Provisions the steps taken to manage such risks.
The Group holds a number of provisions relating to properties including liabilities for onerous lease commitments, repairs and Following each Committee meeting, I report any significant findings dilapidations and actual and anticipated legal, environmental and to the Board and copies of the minutes of the Committee meetings other claims.
The Committee reviewed reports from management are circulated to all of the directors and to the external auditor.
and the external auditor concerning the significant provisions held for such matters including any provisions with notable movements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT and those provisions requiring a greater degree of judgement.
ACCOUNTING MATTERS The Committee considered the background to such provisions and During the year and prior to the publication of the Groups results discussed with management the judgements applied in determining for 2013, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2013 half yearly financial the value of provisions required.
The Committee enquired of report, the 2013 Annual Report including the financial statements, management and the external auditor as to the existence of other the 2013 annual results news release and the reports from the matters potentially requiring a provision to be made.
The Committee external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcomes of their half year concluded that it was satisfied with the value of provisions carried.
review and audit relating to 2013.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE AND As part of its work, the Committee considered the following EFFECTIVENESS significant accounting issues, matters and judgements in relation The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains to the Groups financial statements: independent of the Company and receives written confirmation from the external auditor as to whether it considers itself independent Accounting for business combinations within the meaning of its own internal and the relevant regulatory For business combinations, the Group has a long-standing process and professional requirements.
Key members of the audit team for the identification of the fair values of the assets acquired and rotate off the Companys audit after a specific period of time.
liabilities assumed including separate identification of intangible assets using external valuation specialists where required.
The In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the Committee reviewed this process and discussed with management external auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also and the external auditor the methodology and assumptions used pre-approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided to value the assets and liabilities of the significant acquisitions by the external auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each completed in 2013.
The Committee concluded that it was satisfied service category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum with managements valuations of these assets and liabilities, individual engagement value.
Certain categories of services are including the degree to which such valuations are supported prohibited under the ethical standards of the Accounting Practices by professional advice from external advisers.
A permitted service requires specific authorisation from the Committee or myself as the Committee Chairman where it does not The carrying value of goodwill fall within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and is tested the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value.
The Committee critically reviewed and non-audit service categories which are pre-approved principally discussed managements report on the annual impairment testing comprise tax services and further assurance services relating to of the carrying value of goodwill of each CGU and considered the pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried out in respect external auditors testing thereof including the sensitivity of the of acquisitions and disposals of businesses.
The Committee believes outcome of impairment testing to the use of different discount rates.
that given the external auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups After due challenge and debate, the Committee concluded that it was operations, its structure and accounting policies and the importance satisfied with the assumptions and judgements applied in relation of carrying out tax services and detailed due diligence as part of the to such testing and agreed that there was no impairment to goodwill.
acquisition process, it is sometimes appropriate for this additional Details of the key assumptions and judgements used are set out in work to be carried out by the Companys auditor.
However other Note 9 to the financial statements.
firms are also used by the Company to provide non-audit services and it is the Companys policy to assess the services required on a case by case basis to ensure that the best placed adviser is retained.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Details of the fees paid to the external auditor in 2013 in respect of the audit and for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 to the As mentioned above, the Committee is responsible for reviewing on behalf of the Board the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial statements.
financial controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys risk management system.
These controls and During the year the Committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
As part of this review, procedures are designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure of the Company to meet its business objectives and, as such, the Committee considered feedback on the audit gathered through a detailed survey which was completed by each of the directors and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the Committee monitors the members of the Companys senior management team at both Group and business area levels.
The survey covered a total of 22 different effectiveness of the internal financial controls framework through reports from the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the aspects of the audit process grouped under three separate headings: the robustness of the audit process, the quality of delivery of the external auditor.
In particular the Committee considered the scope and results of work of the internal audit function, the findings of the audit process and the quality of the people in the audit team and the service provided by them.
Each respondent was asked to award a external auditor in relation to the year end audit, the assessment of fraud risk carried out by management, the controls over the rating on a scale of 1 to 5 for each aspect reviewed and to provide any additional comments they wished to make in relation to the questions Companys financial consolidation and reporting system, the treasury controls, the tax risks and the processes for setting raised.
The Committee discussed the findings of the survey and their overall assessment of the work of the auditor.
strategic plans and budgets and for monitoring the ongoing performance of the Company.
AUDITOR RE-APPOINTMENT In relation to the risk management system, the Committee reviewed As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee takes into the process by which significant risks had been identified by management and the Board, the key controls and other processes account the tenure of the auditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of the external auditor and considers designed to manage and mitigate such risks and the assurance provided by the internal audit function, the external auditor and whether there should be a full tender process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of other oversight from management and the Board.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Company has an internal audit department which comprises KPMG Audit Plc or its predecessor firms has been the Companys external auditor since 1986, being the date when an audit tender was eight in-house auditors, including the Head of Internal Audit who reports jointly to me, in my capacity as Chairman of the Audit last conducted.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review of the external auditors activities during the year, the Committee, and the Finance Director.
The scope of work of the internal audit function covers all systems and activities of the Group.
Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor Work is prioritised according to the Companys risk profile with the annual audit plan being approved by the Committee each year.
be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Internal audit reports are regularly provided to the Committee which include details of the audit findings, and the relevant management However, notwithstanding this recommendation, in line with the new requirement under the Code and the recent report of the UK actions required in order to address any issues arising therefrom, as well as updates on the progress made by management in Competition Commission for listed companies to tender the external audit at least once every 10 years, the Committee has also made a addressing any outstanding recommendations from previously reported findings.
In addition, the internal audit function reports on recommendation to the Board that the Company should carry out such a tender during 2014 with a view to the successful firm any significant issues relating to the processes for controlling the activities of the Group and the adequacy and effectiveness of such performing the external audit for the year ending 31 December 2014.
The Board intends to implement this recommendation later this year.
Together the work of the internal audit function provides the Committee with a further means of monitoring the processes Any firm so appointed during the year would then be subject to re-appointment by the Companys shareholders at the 2015 Annual and actions to manage and mitigate those risks identified as posing the greatest threat to the Company.
A review by the Committee of the effectiveness of the internal audit In order to comply with good governance practice and given KPMGs length of tenure as the Companys auditor and the current regulatory function was carried out during the year.
The Committee considered the results of a questionnaire completed by each of the directors and environment which may soon impose an obligation on listed companies to rotate their auditor periodically, the Board has decided those members of the senior management team who interact with the internal audit department and discussed generally the work of that it intends to appoint a new audit firm as the Companys external auditor following the tender process.
As a result KPMG Audit Plc will the internal audit department, the adequacy of resources and the skills and capabilities of the internal audit team.
not be invited to participate in the process.
KPMG has served the Company very well over many years and we thank them for their David Sleath hard work.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 February 2014 46 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
